{"id": "731896", "revid": "47450005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731896", "title": "Canarsie, Brooklyn", "text": "Canarsie ( ) is a mostly residential neighborhood in the southeastern portion of Brooklyn, New York City. Canarsie is bordered on the east by Fresh Creek Basin, East 108th Street, and Louisiana Avenue; on the north by Linden Boulevard; on the west by Ralph Avenue; on the southwest by Paerdegat Basin; and on the south by Jamaica Bay. It is adjacent to the neighborhoods of East Flatbush to the west, Flatlands and Bergen Beach to the southwest, Starrett City to the east, East New York to the northeast, and Brownsville to the north.\nThe area near Canarsie was originally settled by the Canarse Native Americans. The community's name is adapted from a Lenape word meaning \"fenced area\". After European settlement, Canarsie was initially a fishing community, but became a popular summer resort in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. By the late 1930s and early 1940, the resorts had been destroyed, and Canarsie was developed as a largely Italian American and Jewish suburb. In the 1970s, racial tensions developed around an argument over the zoning of the area's schools, and in the aftermath, Canarsie became a mainly black neighborhood with a high West Indian population in the late 1990s.\nCanarsie is part of Brooklyn Community District 18 and its primary ZIP Code is 11236. It is patrolled by the 69th Precinct of the New York City Police Department. Fire services are provided by the New York City Fire Department's Engine Co. 257/Ladder Co. 170/Battalion 58. Politically it is represented by the New York City Council's 42nd and 46th Districts.\nEtymology.\n\"Canarsie\" is an adaptation to English phonology of a word in the Lenape language for 'fenced land' or 'fort'. Europeans would often refer to the indigenous people living in an area by the local place-name, though it is unclear whether the \"Canarsie\" name originally referred to their entire ancestral land, or whether it merely referred to a single \"fenced village\". References may be found in contemporary documents to \"Canarsie Indians\" (alternatively \"Canarsee\"). Their name has also been transcribed as \"Connarie See\" (a name for Jamaica Bay), \"Conorasset\", \"Canarisse\", \"Canaryssen\", \"Canause\", \"Canarisea\", and \"Kanarsingh\". The village itself was referred to as \"Keskachauge\" or \"Kestateuw\", alternatively transcribed as \"Castateuw\". After European settlement, the area became variously known as \"Flatlands Neck\", \"Vischers Hook\", and \"Great Neck\".\n\"By way of Canarsie\" became a mid-twentieth century American English figure of speech meaning \"to come to one's destination by a roundabout way or from a distant point\". The expression has dropped from modern common parlance.\nCanarsie was described as \"the butt of vaudeville jokes\" in the 1939 WPA Guide to New York City. A \"New York Times\" article in 1955 characterized Canarsie as a former \"lame vaudeville gag\". By the 2010s, \"The Flossy\" was also being used as a local nickname for Canarsie.\nGeography.\nCanarsie is bordered on the east by Fresh Creek Basin and Williams Avenue; on the north by Linden Boulevard and the Bay Ridge Branch; on the west by Ralph Avenue; on the southwest by Paerdegat Basin; and on the southeast by Belt Parkway and Jamaica Bay. It is adjacent to the neighborhoods of East Flatbush on the northwest, Flatlands on the west, Bergen Beach on the southwest, Brownsville on the north, and the Spring Creek subsection of East New York on the east and northeast.\nPrior to European settlement, Canarsie featured the only large swath of uplands along the Jamaica Bay coast within the town of Flatlands. The islands in the bay, such as Bergen, Mill, and Barren islands, mostly featured marshy land with small pieces of uplands. In the 19th century, a few ports along the coast were built for limited industrial use. The coast was more significantly modified in the early 20th century, when more than of shoreline was filled in with a bulkhead.\nHistory.\nEarly history.\nThe coastal lands around Jamaica Bay, including present-day Canarsie, were originally settled by the Canarsie Indians. The present-day neighborhood of Canarsie was one of the Canarsie tribe's main villages. They probably lived near the intersection of present-day Seaview and Remsen Avenues. Cornfields grew from the shore to as far inland as Avenue J, and were centered around East 92nd Street. The Canarsie Indians grew cornfields on three flats within the area. As late as the 1930s, \"immense shell heaps\" could be found at the site. These shells might have served as planting fields.\nIn 1624, the Dutch Republic incorporated much of the current New York City area into the colony of New Netherland. In 1636, as the Dutch was expanding outward from present-day Manhattan, Dutch settlers founded the town of Achtervelt (later Amersfoort, then Flatlands) and purchased around Jamaica Bay. Amersfoort was centered around the present-day intersection of Flatbush Avenue and Flatlands Avenue. Canarsie Indian leaders such as Penhawitz had signed three land agreements with Dutch settlers between 1636 and 1667, handing ownership of much of their historic land to the Dutch. Many of the tribe's members started moving away, and Dutch settlers rented the cornfields that had formerly belonged to the Indians. Much of the remaining land was located in the present-day neighborhood of Canarsie. The first European settler in the area was Pieter Claesen Wyckoff, a former indentured servant who built a house in Flatlands circa 1652. Wyckoff's house still stands along Clarendon Road, and it is believed to be the oldest structure in New York State.\nIn 1660, present-day Canarsie Point was given the name Vischers Hook (\"fishers' hook\"). The name referred to Hoorn, a Dutch fisherman who had built a house at that location. At the time, a group of islands extended into Jamaica Bay south of Canarsie, up to and including Barren Island.\nThe Indians still managed the land at Canarsie until the English took over New Amsterdam. In 1665, Canarsie Indians signed a land agreement that gave total ownership of almost all their land to the Dutch. By the time the land agreement was signed, only three Native American families remained in the area. In 1670, Daniel Denton, a co-founder of the nearby town of Jamaica, wrote: \"It is to be admired how strangely they have decreast by the Hand of God [...] for since my time, when there were six towns, they are reduced to two small villages.\" Through 1684, the Dutch and the Native Americans had signed twenty-two deeds regarding the sale of different plots of land in Flatlands. By the beginning of the 18th century, the only Canarsie Indians living in the New York City area were a few small groups in the town of Canarsie, as well as at Gerritsen Beach and Staten Island. At this time, their ancestral land in Canarsie had been fragmented and sold off to different settlers. Some plots were subsequently merged to create large plantation-style farms. An observer noted in 1832 that \"the Canarsie Indians are at this time totally extinct; not a single member of that ill-fated race is in existence\". However, a few members still remained, albeit via mixed lineage. Joel Skidmore, the last member of the tribe through his mother's side, was a tax collector from the town of Flatlands who lived in Canarsie until he died in 1907.\nThe towns of Flatbush and Flatlands laid competing claims to the western shore of Fresh Creek, within present-day Canarsie. A 1685 confirmation of Flatlands' boundaries did not recognize this small patch of land; instead, this land was classified as part of New Lots, then a subdivision of Flatbush. This dispute continued into the 19th century, as seen by maps from 1797 and 1873. Through this time, Canarsie remained sparsely populated. In an 1852 map, Jeremiah Schenck and James Schenck were listed as the only two landowners at Canarsie Point. They each owned of land. The only road in the area was what would later be Rockaway Parkway. The only way to Canarsie was by taking a train to Jamaica and transferring to a stagecoach, where passengers would endure a \"long and uncomfortable ride\" through the marshy woodlands that the road winded through.\nSeaside resort.\nThe Brooklyn and Rockaway Beach Railroad, which opened on October 21, 1865, offered train service from the Long Island Rail Road at the East New York station to a pier at Canarsie Landing, very close to the current junction of Rockaway Parkway and the Belt Parkway. The railroad built a pier extending into Jamaica Bay, which was used for lumber deliveries and was later enlarged. Less than a year later, in summer 1866, the railroad started operating a ferry to Rockaway Beach, marking the start of the area's transformation into a summer beach resort. That year, there were ten daily round trips along the Canarsie railroad, but only three on the Rockaway ferry, so vacationers traveling to the Rockaways via the railroad and ferry would often stay on Canarsie Landing for a few hours. Railroad service was increased in 1867, with trains running every hour on weekdays and every half hour on Sundays; the railroad handled 122,567 passengers that year.\nFive hotels soon opened on the Canarsie shore, starting with Bay View House in July 1867. In addition, restaurants and saloons began operating along Canarsie Landing. An 1867 account from a \"Brooklyn Daily Eagle\" correspondent stated that there were two railroads: the Canarsie steam dummy, which ran only to East New York, and the Nostrand Avenue Line, which connected with other streetcar lines that ran across Brooklyn. The correspondent wrote that \"it has ample hotel accommodations for boarders or casual visitors, and all it needs is a good roadway along the waterside for promenade and drive.\" The next year, an article from the \"Eagle\" noted that although Canarsie still had a reputation for being a fisherman's village, it \"will be largely patronized as soon as people get the means of going there\". German, Dutch, Scottish, and Irish settlers started moving to Canarsie in large numbers during the 1870s.\nFerry service remained infrequent because any increase to ferry service would require new vessels, and in order to do that, Jamaica Bay would need to be dredged at a very high cost. At the time, the bay was a few inches deep during low tide, and a narrow, channel stretched across the bay. The Canarsie Line employed steamboats, which were able to make a round trip in two hours and navigate the bay at low tide. During its early history, the route used steamers with a capacity of 250 passengers; later boats had larger capacity. In 1878, there were two proposals to create a more frequent transportation service between Canarsie and the Rockaways, but neither was implemented. One proposal entailed extending a railroad trestle into Jamaica Bay to shorten the ferry trip, while the other involved constructing a narrow-gauge railway that ran to Broad Channel, Queens. By that year, a rectangular peninsula extended into the bay. In 1880, the New York, Woodhaven and Rockaway Railroad constructed a trestle across the bay and started operating service across it. White's Iron Steamboats, which sailed from Manhattan directly to the Rockaways, started operating two years later. Despite the existence of two competitors, the Canarsie railroad saw a healthy continued patronage because many passengers wanted to go to Canarsie itself.\nThe success of the Canarsie railroad and the variety of activities available at Canarsie Point both contributed to that area's prosperity. In the late 1860s, a boat-rental company opened in Canarsie, and by 1880, there were ten such companies, with each company owning 50 boats on average. Rentals ranged from $5 to $7 on weekdays, and from $7 to $10 on weekends. An 1882 newspaper article observed that after traveling to Canarsie \"through a tract of country that looked like one vast lawn of green velvet\", visitors could hire yachts or rowboats, or just breathe the fresh air. In 1883, a large double-decker barge for theatrical and musical performances, called the \"Floating Pavilion\", was permanently anchored off the Canarsie shore. The depth of the bay was only deep at this point, making it suitable for bathing. A stage extended into the water for the performers, while bathhouses were placed on the barge's lower tier. The steamer \"Edith Peck\" regularly traveled between the shore and the barge. Summer bungalows were also built along the bay shore, especially east of Canarsie Landing in an area called Sand Bay. Since the land was submerged during low tide, many of these houses were built on stilts. Electric lighting was installed in 1892 in a bid to attract visitors at night as well.\nCanarsie also grew into a fishing hub by the late 19th century. In 1850, there were 75 fishermen in Flatlands, compared to 191 other individuals who worked in agriculture. By 1880, there were 200 fishermen in Flatlands, of which around 90% lived in Canarsie. In an 1865 account, \"The New York Times\" described the fishing village as a self-sufficient community that was \"a place of much resort for fishing, and one of the best near to the city\". Boatbuilding also became popular: the number of boatbuilders in Canarsie grew from one in 1868 to eight in 1887. Much of the boats built in Canarsie were small rowboats, but some of them were large sloops. A 1900 magazine article described the Canarsie bay shore as \"a level expanse of marshy meadowland indented with shallow inlets and dotted with boathouses, fishing huts, and boat builders' cabins perched high and dry on wooden piles.\" Visitors could rent a rowboat and catch fish at Ruffle Bar or other locations within Jamaica Bay. If these visitors had enough money, they could rent a large sloop and head to the open ocean to fish.\nFishing and amusement heyday.\nBy the start of the 20th century, Canarsie was a bustling amusement district. Of the 50 buildings along the Canarsie bay shore, eighteen were hotels. Three ferry systems operated routes to Bergen Island, Barren Island, Rockaway Beach, and other destinations in Jamaica Bay. A fourth would start operations in 1915, but shuttered in 1918 after several unprofitable seasons.\nThe Canarsie Line faced a steep drop in patronage in 1895, when frequent trolley service started operating to Coney Island. The line, which had operated a fleet of at least 10 vessels throughout its existence, stopped operating in 1905. The Canarsie Railroad, a subsidiary of the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company, acquired the Brooklyn and Rockaway Beach line north of Rockaway Parkway on May 31, 1906. The BRT then announced that it would build an elevated railroad to Canarsie. This spurred speculation of rapid real estate development in Canarsie. Residents started constructing water and sewer pipes, as well as paving roads, in anticipation of this new development. The route south of Rockaway Parkway became an electric trolley shuttle route.\nThe Golden City Amusement Park opened in May 1907 at what is now Seaview Avenue, near Canarsie Pier. The owners hoped that the five-cent fare of the Canarsie Railroad would draw riders who would otherwise pay 10 cents to go to the Coney Island amusement area. Golden City cost $1 million to build and included a miniature railroad, a dance hall, a roller skating rink, and a roller coaster. There was also a wooden shorefront promenade and a 2,500-seat theater with 7,000 electric lights. The buildings were adorned with silver and gold. Part of Golden City's appeal was that it was easily accessible from Manhattan via the elevated. In August of that year, the Golden City Construction was leased to the Canarsie Amusement Company, who planned to make the park one of the world's largest. In 1909, the park was severely damaged by a fire, which also destroyed two hotels. The park was completely rebuilt for the next season.\nMurphy's Carousel was created in 1912 by the Stein and Goldstein Artistic Carousell Company of Brooklyn and installed in Golden City Park. A writer for \"The New York Times\" later noted that \"the horses were carved in Coney Island style, which eschewed the look of docile ponies and prancing fillies and produced much more muscular, ferocious creatures with bared teeth and heads often lifted in motion.\"\nAfter the end of World War I, the New York City Department of Docks started renting piers along the Canarsie shore. These piers were transformed into summer vacation houses, boardwalks, industrial buildings, railroads, and piers, among other purposes. Some piers were used by boat yards, clubs, and builders, while other piers were rented for an expansion of Golden City Park.\nDecline of fishing and amusement.\nBy the 20th century, the fishing industry started to decline, since pollution had contaminated the oysters that occupied the bay. The shellfish in the bay began showing signs of chemical contamination in 1904, when an outbreak of typhoid fever was linked to a catch of shellfish in Inwood, New York, another town on the Jamaica Bay shore. In 1912, a typhoid outbreak in upstate Goshen, New York, was attributed to a banquet where Jamaica Bay oysters were served. In 1915, Canarsie itself was affected when 27 residents contracted typhoid from that year's shellfish catch. Another 100 cases of gastroenteritis were traced to that year's shellfish catch. By 1917, an estimated of sewage per day was being discharged into the bay. The whole industry was shuttered in 1921 because too much of the shellfish population had been infected.\nThe shoreline was further altered in 1926 through the construction of Canarsie Pier, a dock with a base. The pier was built as part of the greater improvement project for Jamaica Bay, wherein channels were being dredged in an effort to turn the bay into a large seaport. This was tied to improvement projects at Mill and Barren islands. This brought new industrial tenants along the Jamaica Bay shore, including an asphalt company and a construction company. The first industrial export from Canarsie Pier, a 500-ton shipment of scrap metal, departed in 1933. Planners also wanted to create a spur of the Long Island Rail Road's Bay Ridge Branch south to Flatlands, with two branches to Canarsie and Mill Basin. In January 1931, the New York City Board of Estimate approved a plan to build railroads on both sides of Paerdegat Basin, connecting the LIRR to Canarsie Pier on the east and to Floyd Bennett Field on the west. Ultimately, Robert Moses, the New York City Parks Commissioner at the time, disapproved of the project. He moved to transform the bay into a city park instead.\nThe Canarsie Railroad was converted to the Canarsie subway line in 1928, providing direct access to Manhattan. After the subway line opened, officials began calling for a new ferry service between Canarsie and Rockaway Beach. The subway line was also supposed to help improve access to the proposed seaport, although the seaport was ultimately not built. The area remained a relatively remote outpost through the 1920s. Southern Italian immigrants, along with Jews, soon settled in the area.\nGolden City was severely damaged by another fire in January 1934, which destroyed fifteen buildings and caused $60,000 worth of damage. This time, the amusement park's operators decided not to rebuild, and the area spent its last days as a boat dock. In 1938, the city moved to acquire Golden City's land, as well as improve sewage facilities within Canarsie. The hope was that the new Belt Parkway would attract drivers to Golden City from all over the metropolitan area. This did not happen, mainly because Robert Moses wanted to build the parkway through the amusement park. Golden City was demolished in 1939 to make way for the Belt Parkway. In the spring of 1940, when the Belt Parkway was built through the area, the carousel was moved to Baldwin, on the border abutting Freeport, on Long Island. The Works Progress Administration, in conjunction with the city's Departments of Parks and Docks, built a recreation building on Canarsie Pier in 1941.\nFerry service at Canarsie Pier also withered away after the opening of the Marine Parkway\u2013Gil Hodges Memorial Bridge in 1937, which connected Brooklyn to the Rockaways directly. In 1939, the WPA Guide to New York City mentioned that Canarsie was a \"sparsely settled community located on dispiriting flatlands\". The Guide further described the burned-down amusement park, the ramshackle shacks, and Canarsie's \"weedy lots and small truck farms cultivated by Italians\". The book stated that riders on the Canarsie Pier trolley could see \"great stenches of dump and marsh\" interspersed between the \"unkempt gardens of run-down houses\" that the trolley's route adjoined. Until 1939, dozens of disused trolley cars from around the city were dumped into a , lake in Canarsie. The Canarsie Pier trolley route was discontinued in 1942 and was replaced by the B42 streetcar (later bus) route, despite residents' protests. The right-of-way of the old Canarsie Pier trolley was abandoned.\nIn 1940, plans for a 14,000-seat arena in Canarsie were filed. This arena was apparently not built for several decades, because in 1974, many Canarsie residents announced their opposition to a proposed 15,000-seat arena in Brooklyn. One of the proposed sites of the arena was in Canarsie.\nIn 1941, the city announced that a new sewage plant would be built in Canarsie in order to reduce the amount of raw sewage going in Jamaica Bay.\nResidential development.\nCanarsie only saw large residential development after World War II. Much of the area's residential buildings were built from this post-war era up until the 1970s. Marshland in the area was filled in. Due to the large shortage of housing in New York City after the war, the city announced the construction of more than a thousand Quonset huts for veterans along the Jamaica Bay shore. The first huts were delivered in February 1946, and they were ready for occupancy by June of that year.\nStarting in the 1950s, a series of suburban waterfront communities were being rapidly developed in Southeast Brooklyn, including in present-day Bergen Beach, Canarsie, and Mill Basin. Most of the new residents were whites who were moving out of neighborhoods such as East New York and Brownsville, which were gaining more black residents. In August 1951, work started on the Breukelen Houses, a 1,600-unit New York City Housing Authority development between East 103rd and East 105th Streets. The development was completed in October 1952. The Bayview Houses, another NYCHA development, started construction in 1954 and opened in 1955. The latter NYCHA development included a shopping center.\nHouses were also constructed by private developers, but due to zoning laws, these residences were limited to three stories high. Vacant lots remained, but they were being very quickly developed at the time. Some lots along the Paerdegat Basin shore remained undeveloped through the 1960s. One plot, in particular, was supposed to become a public housing development for lower- and middle-class families. However, the plot was privately owned, and residents of nearby houses wanted to see a private developer build two-story middle-class detached houses at that location. This plot ultimately became a middle-income housing development with units for 6,000 families, built by the city under the Mitchell-Lama Housing Program.\nIn conjunction with this development, the federal and city governments each awarded hundreds of thousands of money toward improving parks and beaches in Canarsie. \"The New York Times\" predicted that Canarsie could become \"the next Jones Beach\", a seaside resort of kinds. It was expected that there would be 5,000 more school-aged children living in Canarsie, so public and parochial schools were expanded as well. From 1950 to 1955, Canarsie's population grew from 3,500 to 4,500. By 1963, a new 69th Precinct building for the New York City Police Department had to be constructed to accommodate the growing population. Many young families moved to Canarsie, and Canarsie High School was built to handle the newcomers. Canarsie High School opened in 1964.\nThe city proposed the construction of Flatlands Industrial Park, an industrial park, in Canarsie in 1959. The city took over the project after a previous attempt by a private developer had been canceled in 1958 due to a lack of tenants. The industrial park was to be located on a plot between East 99th and 108th Streets between Farragut Road and the Long Island Rail Road. Permission to clear the land was granted in 1962. East Brooklyn residents wished to see an educational complex on the site instead, on the grounds that not building an educational complex would prolong the school segregation prevalent in Eastern Brooklyn. The New York City Department of City Planning approved the plan anyway in 1965. The city added of land to the proposed industrial area by deleting plans for the side streets that were supposed to run through the area. These delays held up construction for nine years: in March 1966, an aide to Mayor John Lindsay reported that \"not one spadeful of dirt\" had been excavated on the site. Construction on the project started in summer 1966, and when the Flatlands Industrial Park opened in 1969, it became the city's first publicly sponsored industrial complex.\nOther development in Canarsie around this time included the middle-income Starrett City complex east of Fresh Creek. The complex is located east of Fresh Creek between Belt Parkway and Vandalia Avenue. In 1962, the California-based Thompson\u2013Starrett Co. bought of land, upon which they proposed to construct apartment buildings. However, this did not occur due to a lack of funds, and the land was sold to a consortium of investors. The project's new developers were a joint venture by the Starrett Corporation and the National Kinney Corporation, who renamed the project \"Starrett City\". In 1967, the United Housing Foundation (UHF) announced a plan to construct a housing development with similarities to Co-op City in the Bronx. The UHF left the project in 1972, by which time part of Starrett City had already been built. Starrett City was dedicated in October 1974, and the first residents started moving in by the end of the year. At the time of opening, it had 5,881 units in 46 eleven- to twenty-story buildings.\nRacial tensions and growing black population.\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s, parents of white students protested against the New York City Department of Education's efforts to desegregate its District 18, which comprised schools in Canarsie and East Flatbush, by \"busing\" minority pupils into Canarsie schools. Many of the minority students were pupils from majority-black Brownsville, which bordered Canarsie to the north but was in a different school district. The racial tensions began in 1964, when the NYCDOE zoned some Brownsville students to Canarsie High School. In 1969, a fight between a white student and a black student at Canarsie High School caused the school to be closed down for three days. South Shore High School opened in 1970, albeit in a physically incomplete state: many rooms did not have furniture, plumbing, or public announcement systems until the middle of the school year. Major conflicts between white and black students occurred in September 1970 and April 1971. By the end of its first year, the principal was stepping down, and a coalition called \"Friends of South Shore\" had formed to protest the lack of resources or opportunities available at that school.\nThe 1972\u20131973 school year was a tumultuous one for Canarsie. On September 12, 1972, the first day of the school year, District 18 officials refused to enroll approximately 90 students from Brownsville into IS 285, a school in East Flatbush. This change came after IS 285 had been enrolling Brownsville students for several years. Brownsville parents had already been hesitant to enroll their students into schools in Canarsie due to large opposition there. By the start of October, these students had still not been able to start school. On October 14, the NYCDOE came up with a solution regarding approximately 40 of these students: send eleven to IS 285, and enroll the rest within IS 211 in Canarsie. (The number of Brownsville students enrolled in IS 211 was variously given as either 29 or 31. That number later rose to 32.) In response, on October 17, hundreds of white parents from Canarsie showed up to protest outside IS 211 and IS 267. They announced their intention to keep protesting unless the black students were reassigned to another school. Because the parents' protests blocked these schools' entrances, the schools were closed for the rest of that day. These protests went on for three days until the NYCDOE threatened a writ of court action against these parents.\nThe NYCDOE unsuccessfully attempted to broker a compromise between parents in Brownsville and Canarsie. On October 24, 1972, NYCDOE Chairman Harvey B. Scribner withdrew enrollment for the Brownsville students who were going to IS 211. The Brownsville parents brought their students to IS 211 the next day and started protesting outside the school. On October 26, the NYCDOE reversed Scribner's order, re-enrolling the black students from Brownsville. The same day, a police guard escorted 28 Brownsville students to their first day of classes at IS 211, amid a crowd of over 1,000 protesters. Of 10,000 students enrolled in Canarsie public schools, only 850 had gone to school on October 26. Due to low attendance, six Canarsie schools were closed for that day. By November 1, the fifth day of the boycott, the number of protesters had subsided, but the boycott was still ongoing. The boycott was broken on November 10, twelve days after it started.\nAs part of the terms to end the boycott, a new zoning plan for the area was ordered. The new plan, released on December 6, was also controversial because it involved rezoning many black students. A second new plan was then ordered. Many Canarsie parents, who complained that it was taking too long to come up with a new zoning plan, initiated a second boycott on March 1, 1973. This boycott spread to a school in Mill Basin, but a similar one in Gravesend was unsuccessful. The boycott ended on April 1, after parents agreed almost unanimously to prohibit any more Brownsville students from enrolling in Canarsie schools. Students who were already enrolled were allowed to stay until they graduated. In total, white students boycotted their schools for seven weeks of the 1972\u20131973 school year. In 1978, a NYCDOE integration plan was tentatively approved by the state. Black students from Brownsville could enroll in Canarsie schools as long as they did not make up a majority of the student population there.\nOf the 80,000 Canarsie residents in 1972, about 2.5% were black. Canarsie's black residents were mostly concentrated in the NYCHA developments, which were integrated with the detached houses in the rest of the neighborhood. The conflict was compared to the Little Rock Nine controversy in 1957, where presidential intervention had been required in order to integrate nine black students into a majority-white school. One writer described the Canarsie school conflict as a time when white residents felt that \"things began to go awry\". The conflict marked the beginning of white Canarsie residents' shift from liberalism to conservatism. By 1978, Canarsie was characterized as \"a conservative, middle-class Jewish and Italian section of Brooklyn\". The elected leadership of District 18 became ethnically disproportionate to the student body: by 1983, most of the District 18 board members were white, even though 75% of the district's students were black. This disproportionate representation continued through 1994, when the mostly-white members of District 18 opposed a plan to split off several schools into a nearby district in order to increase the proportion of black votes in both districts. That plan was subsequently canceled.\nIn 1989, construction commenced on the Seaview Estates condominiums. The project was characterized as Canarsie's first large new residential development in decades. The development opened in 2003.\nIn the 1980s, the white residents of Canarsie started moving away, and black residents started moving in. From 1980 to 1990, the proportion of Canarsie's population who was white dropped from 90% to 75%. Much of Canarsie's white population left for the suburbs of Staten Island, Queens, Long Island, and New Jersey, part of a national phenomenon referred to as \"white flight\". This culminated in a spate of racial conflicts in 1991, where 14 racial-bias incidents were recorded within a month and a half. These incidents were committed by both blacks against whites, and by whites against blacks. The black population of Canarsie rose from 10% in 1990 to 60% in 2000, with most of the new residents being Caribbean and West Indian immigrants. By 2010, the neighborhood was 78% black, and between 47% and 60% of the total residents were immigrants from the Caribbean.\nThe late-2000s subprime mortgage crisis affected the 11236 zip code, which includes Canarsie and Flatlands, more than any other neighborhood in the city. The area had 1,930 subprime mortgages, the most of any city neighborhood; of these, twelve percent were facing foreclosure proceedings. During Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, the basements of many homes in Canarsie were flooded. By June 2013, more than 10% of the residential buildings within Canarsie's zip code, 11236, were being foreclosed upon. In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, the Federal Emergency Management Agency started redrawing flood-risk maps in New York City to account for climate change. The original flood map in 1983 labeled 26 buildings under the FEMA \"flood zone\", but the new flood map proposed increasing that total to 5,000 buildings. Many area homeowners opposed the maps because they could not afford flood insurance if they were rezoned under the FEMA flood zone.\nCommunity.\nCanarsie is characterized as a middle-class neighborhood. Canarsie's residences consist mainly of one- and two-family homes. Most houses are detached, unlike elsewhere in Brooklyn where townhouses are more common. The houses between East 105th and East 108th Streets south of Avenue L typically have backyards, lawns and similar styled suburbs which unlike its neighbors Bergen Beach and Mill Basin, have not changed since the 1950s, large houses dating to the 1910s and 1920s can be found north of Flatlands Avenue. Eastern Canarsie tends to have more dense concentrations of housing than western Canarsie, while the center of the neighborhood has very dense development. There are two large public housing developments, the Breuckelen Houses and the Bayview Houses, both operated by the New York City Housing Authority. Canarsie also contains a gated community, started in 1985 and completed in 2003, the Seaview Estates condominium complex, which has five buildings as well as its own tennis court and swimming pool.\nBrooklyn Community District 18, which encompasses Amersfort, Bergen Beach, Canarsie, Flatbush, Flatlands, Fraser, Georgetowne, Marine Park, and Mill Basin has a poverty rate of 11.8%, lower than the city's 20% overall poverty rate, and a homeownership rate of 60%, higher than the city's 30% overall homeownership rate.\nPlaces of interest.\nThere are two shopping centers in Canarsie. One of them is Canarsie Plaza, located on Avenue D. Opened in 2011, the mall contains of retail space. The Brooklyn Terminal Market is located adjacent to Canarsie Plaza, and sells horticultural items such as plants, trees, and fruits.\nThe Canarsie Cemetery is located at Remsen Avenue and Avenue K. It was owned by the Remsen family until 1888, when they sold it to the town of Flatlands. In 1898, the cemetery became part of New York City, who became the new owner of the cemetery. Over the next century, 6,400 corpses were interred at the Canarsie Cemetery, including Civil War and Spanish\u2013American War veterans. The city announced its intention to sell Canarsie Cemetery in 1982, but for more than 25 years, its efforts to sell were unsuccessful. Cypress Hills, the operator of another cemetery straddling Brooklyn and Queens, purchased Canarsie Cemetery in 2010. By that time, there had been 8,000 interments, with space for 6,000 more corpses.\nDemographics.\nBased on data from the 2020 United States Census, the population of Canarsie was 92,227, an increase of 8,534 (9.24%) from 83,693, and a decrease of 1,365 (1.6%) from the 85,058 counted in 2010. Covering an area of , the neighborhood had a population density of . The racial makeup of the neighborhood was 79.4% (73,131) African American, 3.8% (3,488) non-Hispanic White, 0.3% (276) Native American, 2.0% (1,871) Asian, 0.0% (8) Pacific Islander, 2.9% (2,669) from other races, and 1.5% (1,278) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 8.5% (7,845) of the population.\nThe entirety of Community District 18, which comprises Canarsie and Flatlands, had 165,543 inhabitants as of NYC Health's 2018 Community Health Profile, with an average life expectancy of 82.0 years. This is slightly higher than the median life expectancy of 81.2 for all New York City neighborhoods. Most inhabitants are middle-aged adults and youth: 25% are between the ages of 0\u201317, 29% between 25 and 44, and 24% between 45 and 64. The ratio of college-aged and elderly residents was lower, at 9% and 13% respectively.\nAs of 2019, the median household income in Community District 18 was $80,471. In 2018, an estimated 11.7% of Canarsie and Flatlands residents lived in poverty, compared to 21% in all of Brooklyn and 20% in all of New York City. One in twelve residents (8%) were unemployed, compared to 9% in the rest of both Brooklyn and New York City. Rent burden, or the percentage of residents who have difficulty paying their rent, is 50% in Canarsie and Flatlands, lower than the citywide and boroughwide rates of 52% and 51% respectively. Based on this calculation, , Canarsie and Flatlands are considered to be higher-income relative to the rest of the city.\nThe 2020 census data from the New York City Department of City Planning shows that there were fewer than 5,000 white residents, fewer than 5,000 Asian residents, between 5,000 and 9,999 Hispanic residents, and over 40,000 black residents.\nDuring the 1990s, much of Canarsie's white population left for the suburbs as part of a national phenomenon referred to as \"white flight\". In the early 21st century, Canarsie's population is mostly black due to significant West Indian immigration in the area. East Brooklyn Community High School serves the transfer student population.\nPolice and crime.\nCanarsie is primarily served by the NYPD's 69th Precinct, located at 9720 Foster Avenue, although the small area west of the Bay Ridge Branch tracks falls under the 67th Precinct, located at 2820 Snyder Avenue. In 2019, the 69th Precinct reported 2 murders, 25 rapes, 91 robberies, 146 felony assaults, 63 burglaries, 286 grand larcenies, and 72 grand larcenies auto. Crime in these categories fell by 84.9% in the precinct between 1990 and 2019, and by 60.9% since 2001. Of the five major violent felonies (murder, rape, felony assault, robbery, and burglary), the 69th Precinct had a rate of 456 crimes per 100,000 residents in 2019, compared to the boroughwide average of 571 crimes per 100,000 and the citywide average of 572 crimes per 100,000. As of 2021, Canarsie\u2019s significant decrease in crimes recently ranked the sixth-safest neighborhood for total crime among 22 neighborhoods in Brooklyn and 29th-safest overall among all New York City neighborhoods.\n, Community District 18 has a non-fatal assault hospitalization rate of 46 per 100,000 people, compared to the boroughwide and citywide rates of 49 per 100,000. Its incarceration rate is 380 per 100,000 people, compared to the boroughwide rate of 460 per 100,000 and the citywide rate of 425 per 100,000.\nIn 2019, the highest concentrations of felony assaults in Canarsie were near the intersection of 93rd Street and Avenue L, where there were 6, and on Farragut Road between 105th and 108th streets, where there were also 6. The highest concentrations of robberies were near the intersection of 103rd Street and Glenwood Road, where there were 4, and at the nearby intersection of 105th Street and Glenwood Road, where there were also 4.\nFire safety.\nCanarsie is served by the New York City Fire Department (FDNY)'s Engine Co. 257/Ladder Co. 170/Battalion 58, located at 1361 Rockaway Parkway.\nHealth.\nPreterm births are more common in Canarsie and Flatlands than in other places citywide, though births to teenage mothers are less common. In Canarsie and Flatlands, there were 89 preterm births per 1,000 live births (compared to 87 per 1,000 citywide), and 11.6 births to teenage mothers per 1,000 live births (compared to 19.3 per 1,000 citywide). Canarsie and Flatlands has a relatively low population of residents who are uninsured, or who receive healthcare through Medicaid. In 2018, this population of uninsured residents was estimated to be 21%, which is higher than the citywide rate of 12%.\nThe concentration of fine particulate matter, the deadliest type of air pollutant, in Canarsie and Flatlands is , lower than the citywide and boroughwide averages. Fifteen percent of Canarsie and Flatlands residents are smokers, which is slightly higher than the city average of 14% of residents being smokers. In Canarsie and Flatlands, 30% of residents are obese, 14% are diabetic, and 37% have high blood pressure\u2014compared to the citywide averages of 24%, 11%, and 28% respectively. In addition, 21% of children are obese, compared to the citywide average of 20%.\nEighty-one percent of residents eat some fruits and vegetables every day, which is lower than the city's average of 87%. In 2018, 77% of residents described their health as \"good\", \"very good\", or \"excellent\", slightly less than the city's average of 78%. For every supermarket in Canarsie and Flatlands, there are 9 bodegas.\nPost offices and ZIP Codes.\nCanarsie and Flatlands are covered by ZIP Codes 11234, 11236, and 11239, which covers the Spring Creek section of the East New York neighborhood. The United States Post Office's Canarsie Station is located at 10201 Flatlands Avenue.\nRecreation.\nCanarsie Pier.\nCanarsie Pier, a fishing spot and recreation and community area on Jamaica Bay, is located in the southern part of the neighborhood at the end of Rockaway Parkway. Once a place from which members of the indigenous Canarsie tribe launched canoes into Jamaica Bay, the pier is now part of the Gateway National Recreation Area's Jamaica Bay Unit, operated by the National Park Service. The city renovated the pier in 1971, and the NPS spent $5 million to renovate the pier again in 1992. The pier contains a restaurant and a visitor center.\nCanarsie Park.\nCanarsie Park (aka Seaview Park), operated by New York City Department of Parks and Recreation (NYC Parks), is located in two pieces south of Seaview Avenue: one west of East 93rd Street, and another east of East 102nd Street. In 1895 and 1896, the city acquired the plot of land bound by East 88th and East 93rd Streets between Seaview and Skidmore Avenues. At the time, the land contained the Jans Martense Schenck house. The park was expanded in 1934 after the city purchased land from the Department of Docks, and a playground was built at Seaview Avenue and East 93rd Street in 1936. Canarsie Park grew again in 1939 and 1948 using parcels from the New York City Board of Estimate. A fourth expansion occurred in 1954 when some land next to Fresh Creek Basin was purchased. The Seaview Avenue playground was renovated in the mid-1990s. Canarsie Park was renovated in the 2000s. During the renovation, a skatepark, a cricket field, and a nature trail were added. This renovation, and the upkeep of other parks in Canarsie, was attributed to an infusion of $13 million in funds from City Councilman Lewis A. Fidler, who represented Community Board 18 at the time. There are also facilities for baseball, soccer, basketball, and tennis, as well as a dog run. New York Road Runners hosts a weekly Open Run in the park.\nOther parks.\nThe neighborhood has several other parks operated by NYC Parks. Bayview Playground is located at Seaview Avenue and East 100th Street, within the Bayview Houses and next to PS 272. The original plot for the playground was acquired in 1955, and NYCHA gave additional land in 1962. Bayview Playground contains basketball and handball courts, as well as a play area and fitness area.\nBildersee Playground is located on Flatlands Avenue between East 81st and East 82nd Streets. Its namesake, Isaac Bildersee, was an assistant public school superintendent for Brooklyn during the 1940s. The city purchased the land in 1960 so it could construct IS 68, the Isaac Bildersee School, along with an accompanying playground. Bildersee Playground opened along with the school in 1965. It contains basketball and handball courts, as well as a play area.\nCurtis Playground is located on Foster Avenue between East 81st and East 82nd Streets. It contains basketball courts as well as fitness and play areas.\nSledge Playground is located on East 95th Street between Holmes Lane and Avenue L. The park originally opened in 1934 on land that was acquired by the city in 1924. In 1984, it was renamed after Cecil Frank Sledge, an NYPD officer for the 69th Precinct who was killed in the line of duty in 1980. Sledge Playground was renovated in 1997\u20131998.\n100% Playground is located on Glenwood Road between East 100th and East 101st Streets. It contains handball courts, a playground, and spray showers.\nIn 1978, the city proposed an additional park between East 102nd and East 108th Streets along Jamaica Bay, but residents opposed the new park because they wanted the funds to pay for existing parks' upkeep.\nTransportation.\nThe BMT Canarsie Line, on which the New York City Subway's runs, terminates at Canarsie\u2013Rockaway Parkway near the northern end of the neighborhood. There is also a subway station at East 105th Street between Foster Avenue and Farragut Road. The subway system's only level crossing was located at East 105th Street until it was closed by 1973 as part of the Flatlands Industrial Park project.\nThe MTA Regional Bus Operations' , and BM2 routes also run through Canarsie. The B103 route was erected on June 16th, 1986 between Downtown Brooklyn and Canarsie, it originally terminated at East 94th Street and Flatlands Avenue, the BM2 had begun service 7 years prior, connecting the neighborhood with The Financial District and Midtown Manhattan. In 2009, both the B103 and BM2 were rerouted to service the Paerdegat Basin and suburbs of Canarsie, terminating at the Bruekelen Houses on Williams Avenue. The B42 route along Rockaway Parkway is a direct descendant of the former trolley route that ran to Canarsie Pier. There is a free direct transfer between the B42 and the subway at Rockaway Parkway. Other New York City Bus routes that partially serve the area are the on Avenue B between Ralph and Remsen Avenues and with the on Church Avenue between Remsen Avenue and East 93rd Street, as well as the on Ralph Avenue between Avenue A and Flatlands Avenue, close to the East Flatbush and Flatlands neighborhoods.\nThe principal roadways through Canarsie are Remsen Avenue, Rockaway Parkway, and Flatlands Avenue. The Belt Parkway, a limited-access parkway, serves Canarsie via an exit at Canarsie Pier.\nEducation.\nCanarsie and Flatlands generally has a similar ratio of college-educated residents to the rest of the city . Though 40% of residents age 25 and older have a college education or higher, 13% have less than a high school education and 48% are high school graduates or have some college education. By contrast, 40% of Brooklynites and 38% of city residents have a college education or higher. The percentage of Canarsie and Flatlands students excelling in math rose from 40 percent in 2000 to 57 percent in 2011, though reading achievement decreased from 48% to 46% during the same time period.\nCanarsie and Flatlands's rate of elementary school student absenteeism is slightly lower than the rest of New York City. In Canarsie and Flatlands, 17% of elementary school students missed twenty or more days per school year, compared to the citywide average of 20% of students. Additionally, 80% of high school students in Canarsie and Flatlands graduate on time, equal to the citywide average of 75% of students.\nSchools.\nPublic elementary schools in Canarsie include PS 114, PS 115, PS 272, PS 276, PS 279, IS 68, and IS 211. These schools are all operated by the New York City Department of Education (NYCDOE).\nCanarsie also contains buildings formerly occupied by the South Shore High School and Canarsie High School, which now serve as educational campuses. In late fall 2006, Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced that five troubled high schools would close by 2010, including South Shore and Canarsie High Schools. According to a NYCDOE spokesperson, the closings were attributed to \"dismal graduation rates, consistent low test scores, a poor history of educating, low performing students, and lackluster demand.\"\nCanarsie and Flatlands generally has a similar ratio of college-educated residents than the rest of the city . A 2018 study found that 38% of residents age 25 and older have a college education or higher, but 14% have less than a high school education and 49% are high school graduates with some college education. By contrast, 38% of Brooklynites and 41% of city residents have a college education or higher. The percentage of Canarsie and Flatlands students excelling in math has increased from 40 percent in 2000 to 57.4 percent in 2011, but within the same time period, reading proficiency dropped from 48% to 45.6%.\nLibraries.\nThe Brooklyn Public Library (BPL) has two branches in Canarsie. The Canarsie branch is located at 1580 Rockaway Parkway near Avenue J. It opened in 1909 with a small circulating connection and became a BPL branch in 1932. Since then, it has relocated twice to accommodate high patronage. The Jamaica Bay branch is located at 9727 Seaview Avenue between Rockaway Parkway and East 98th Street, and it opened in 1973. In addition, the Paerdegat branch is located just west of Canarsie, at 850 East 59th Street near Paerdegat Avenue South.\nMedia.\n\"The Canarsie Courier\", published every Thursday, is the oldest weekly publication in Brooklyn and is still in publication. It was founded by Walter S. Patrick on April 22, 1921. The \"Courier\" was then purchased by brothers Bob and Joe Samitz in 1959. After the death of Joe Samitz, Mary Samitz became co-publisher of the paper with her husband Bob and then became the sole publisher after Bob's death in 1998. The Samitz family then sold the paper to Donna Marra and Sandra Greco. Marra became the sole publisher in 2010.\nNotable residents.\nNotable current and former residents of Canarsie include:"}
{"id": "731898", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731898", "title": "Lasalle, Quebec", "text": ""}
{"id": "731899", "revid": "50260407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731899", "title": "LaSalle, Quebec", "text": "LaSalle () is the most southerly borough (\"arrondissement\") of the city of Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is located in the south-west portion of the Island of Montreal, along the Saint Lawrence River. Prior to 2002, it was a separate municipality that had been incorporated in 1912.\nHistory.\nLaSalle was named for the area's first \"seigneur\", French explorer Ren\u00e9-Robert Cavelier de La Salle (1643\u20131687). The area became part of a municipality during the mid 19th century, and LaSalle was incorporated as an independent municipality in 1912.\nThe Lachine Rapids are situated within LaSalle territory. The name Lachine, which is also the name of the neighbouring borough, stayed because the LaSalle area was part of the parish of Saints-Anges-de-la-Chine during the French regime period. Before the creation of the Lachine Canal in the 1820s, the rapids had to be portaged on a trail called \"Chemin LaSalle\" (what is now LaSalle Boulevard).\nLaSalle is known for its many public schools, most notably l'\u00c9cole secondaire Cavelier-de-LaSalle, known as one of the top talent-producing schools in the fields of dance and song. The other common public school in LaSalle is LaSalle Community Comprehensive High School, opened many years ago and home to many cultures.\nMichel Leduc, who served as mayor from 1983 to December 31, 2001, was the last mayor of an independent LaSalle. Under Leduc, LaSalle became the first large city in Quebec to launch a large recycling program. LaSalle was annexed by the city of Montreal on January 1, 2002, along with a number of other cities on the Island of Montreal.\nGeography.\nLaSalle is bounded by five adjacent municipalities and boroughs, these being Lachine towards the west, Verdun and the Sud-Ouest neighbourhood of Ville-\u00c9mard to the north-east, and Montreal West and the neighbourhood of Notre-Dame-de-Gr\u00e2ce within the borough of C\u00f4te-des-Neiges\u2013Notre-Dame-de-Gr\u00e2ce towards the north, the latter two being divided by Autoroute 20 as well as the Lachine Canal. To its south and east lies the shore of the Saint Lawrence River, specifically a portion of the river known as the Lachine Rapids.\nGovernment.\nFederal and provincial elections.\nFederally, the western part of the borough is located in Dorval\u2014Lachine\u2014LaSalle and the eastern part in LaSalle\u2014\u00c9mard\u2014Verdun. They are represented by Anju Dhillon and Claude Guay of the Liberal Party of Canada.\nProvincially, the entire borough is within the electoral district of Marguerite-Bourgeoys represented by Fred Beauchemin of the Quebec Liberal Party.\nBorough government.\nThe borough is divided into two districts.\nThe borough elects a borough mayor, two city councillors, and four borough councillors.\nAs of the November 2, 2025 Montreal municipal election, the current borough council consists of the following councillors:\nDemographics.\nSource:\nEducation.\nPost-secondary education.\n\"C\u00e9gep Andr\u00e9-Laurendeau\" is in LaSalle.\nPrimary and secondary schools.\nThe \"Centre de services scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeoys\" operates Francophone public schools.\nAdult schools:\nProfessional development centres:\nSecondary schools:\nPrimary schools:\nThe Lester B. Pearson School Board (LBPSB) operates Anglophone public schools.\nSecondary schools:\nPrimary schools:\nPublic libraries.\nThe Montreal Public Libraries Network operates the L'Octogone Branch in Lasalle.\nCityscape.\nAmong LaSalle's attractions are Angrignon Mall, the Lachine Canal and the Canal de l'Aqueduc, with their recreational areas; the Octagone library; the Parc Angrignon; the \u00cele aux H\u00e9rons migratory bird refuge; the Saints-Anges archeological site; Des Rapides Park; and the Fleming windmill, which is used as the borough's symbol. Other major installations include the C\u00e9gep Andr\u00e9-Laurendeau.\nEconomy.\nLaSalle's main economic engines include industries and agrifoods:\nInfrastructure.\nLaSalle is served by the LaSalle commuter train station on the Candiac Line. Angrignon metro is right near the border of LaSalle located in Le Sud-Ouest. Route 138 passes through the borough before crossing the Honor\u00e9 Mercier Bridge to Kahnawake. Other important thoroughfares include LaSalle, Newman, La V\u00e9rendrye, Bishop Power, Champlain, Shevchenko, Dollard, Lapierre, Centrale and Jean-Brillon Boulevards.\nDespite its name, the Montreal Metro station of LaSalle is not located in LaSalle, but on a portion of the boulevard of the same name in Verdun.\nSports and recreation.\nLaSalle also has various sports teams, the football association (Warriors), the hockey association (Cougars), the baseball association (LaSalle Cardinals) and the soccer association (LaSalle Rapids) which remain popular. The Cardinals play their home games at Stade \u00c9loi-Viau. The first ever cricket team called \"LaSalle Strikers\" came into existence in 2015. Former home of Pop Harrigan Hockey and LaSalle Colts Football.\nReferences.\nhttp://www12.statcan.ca/english/census01/products/highlight/ETO/Table1.cfm?T=501&amp;Lang=E&amp;GV=4&amp;GID=2466040&amp;Prov=24&amp;S=1&amp;O=D \nhttp://ville.montreal.qc.ca/pls/portal/docs/PAGE/MTL_STATS_FR/MEDIA/DOCUMENTS/PROFIL_SOCIOD%C9MO_LASALLE.PDF"}
{"id": "731903", "revid": "1233313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731903", "title": "List of districts of Taipei by population", "text": ""}
{"id": "731904", "revid": "19250086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731904", "title": "Autogenesis", "text": "Autogenesis may refer to:\nAutogenous may refer to:\nAutogenic may refer to:"}
{"id": "731905", "revid": "41625025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731905", "title": "Sainte-Foy, Quebec City", "text": "Sainte-Foy (; ) is a former city in central Quebec, Canada alongside the Saint Lawrence River. It was amalgamated into Quebec City at the start of 2002. Most of the formerly independent municipality of Sainte-Foy is located in the borough () of Sainte-Foy\u2013Sillery\u2013Cap-Rouge\u2014initially as one of the two constituent districts of the former borough of Sainte-Foy\u2013Sillery. On 1 November 2009, Sainte-Foy was subdivided into four separate districts: Cit\u00e9-Universitaire, Plateau, Saint-Louis, Pointe-de-Sainte-Foy, when the borough of Sainte-Foy\u2013Sillery\u2013Cap-Rouge was formed.\nSainte-Foy is a major suburban neighbourhood west of downtown Quebec City. It plays a large part in Quebec City's economic life, with the Jean Lesage International Airport, Universit\u00e9 Laval, multiple shopping malls, and both bridges to the south shore of the Saint Lawrence River.\nDemographics.\nAccording to the 2006 Canadian Census:\nHistory.\nIn 1669, missionary priest Pierre-Joseph-Marie Chaumonot erected a chapel for the Huron, dedicated to Notre-Dame de la Foy. The name means Our Lady of Faith. Sainte-Foy developed around the chapel, first as a small settlement of Christian Indians, added to by traders and merchants.\nThe Battle of Sainte-Foy on April 28, 1760, sometimes called the Battle of Quebec, was a victory for the French in the Seven Years' War (known in the United States as the French and Indian War for the North American front). Their forces were commanded by Chevalier de L\u00e9vis and defeated the British army under James Murray. This battle proved to be much bloodier than the battle of the Plains of Abraham the previous September, with higher total casualties on both sides\u2014833 French casualties and 1,124 British. Despite this the French were unable to take Quebec and it was to be the last French victory in the Seven Years' War, which the British ultimately won. France ceded its territories in North America east of the Mississippi River to the British.\nSainte-Foy's long-time flamboyant mayor, Andr\u00e9e Boucher, was defeated when she ran for mayor of the amalgamated Quebec City. She became a radio host. In 2005, she ran again for mayor after Jean-Paul L'Allier retired. This time she won, without hiring an election team or paying for media advertisements, and with making very few public appearances or debates. She has since died since her last political position.\nAmalgamation with Quebec City.\nOn January 1, 2002, Sainte-Foy was merged, along with many other suburbs, with Quebec City. A referendum was held June 20, 2004, with 52.19% of voters in favour of a demerger. However, the provincial government only proceeded with demerger in those places where over 35% of electors voted (which was not the case in Sainte-Foy.)\nEconomy.\nAeropro has its head office on the grounds of Jean Lesage Airport in Sainte-Foy. It conducts business charters and recreational and sightseeing flights Prior to its dissolution, regional airline Air Nova had its Quebec offices in Sainte-Foy.\nMajor companies operating in the district include PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Ernst &amp; Young, Microsoft and the headquarters of SSQ Financial Group.\nSainte-Foy is at the northern end of the Quebec Bridge, which links to the south shore of the Saint Lawrence River at L\u00e9vis.\nEducation.\nSainte-Foy is also the site of many educational institutions:\nTransport.\nSainte-Foy station is a VIA Rail station on the Quebec City\u2013Windsor Corridor. It is roughly three kilometres from the Gare d'Autocar de Ste-Foy, and ten kilometres from Jean Lesage Airport.\nThe Gare d'Autocar is a regional hub for Orleans Express, Intercar, the R\u00e9seau de transport de la Capitale, the Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 de transport de L\u00e9vis, and several regional government-funded shuttles, for example Portneuf.\nAir France has a bus service from Sainte-Foy bus station to Montreal Dorval Airport for its customers only.\nRecreation.\nSainte-Foy possesses has three ice hockey rinks, one sports centre, 33 soccer fields, 2 Interior Pools, 13 exterior pools, three cinemas, one theatre, Laurier Qu\u00e9bec, Place de La Cite, and La Pyramide. Sainte-Foy also has excellent representation in all sports: the Governors in hockey, the Caravelles and Arsenal in soccer, and the Musketeers ESCC in basketball."}
{"id": "731906", "revid": "4626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731906", "title": "Energy-momentum density", "text": ""}
{"id": "731908", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731908", "title": "Charlesbourg, Quebec City", "text": "Charlesbourg () is a borough of Quebec City, in the northeastern part of the city, west of the borough of Beauport.\nHistory.\nThe origins of Charlesbourg began with the concession of the seigniory of Notre-Dame-des-Anges in 1626. The seigniory extended from the Charles River northward, encompassing the modern boroughs of Limoilou and Charlesbourg. In 1665, the new Intendant of Justice, Jean Talon, set out to establish three new villages further north on the plateau. That caused friction with the Jesuits who were the seignors of the area.\nThe first of the villages consisted of a 25-arpent square, in which a five-arpent square (the \"trait carr\u00e9\") was reserved for the church, presbytery and cemetery. The homes of the settlers located on the periphery of the Trait Carr\u00e9 and their trapezoidal plots of land form a star shape. The second village, which is semicircular due to lack of space, was established just to the south at Petite-Auvergne and the third was established in 1667 in Bourg-Royal, to the northeast. This particular arrangement is still visible from the air and is the hallmark of Charlesbourg.\nCharlesbourg is, first and foremost, an agricultural area, in addition to becoming a vacation destination for inhabitants of Quebec City in the first half of the 20th century. It became urbanized in the second half of the 20th century and became a suburb of Quebec City. In 1976, the municipalities of Charlesbourg-Est, Notre-Dame-des-Laurentides, Orsainville and the city of Charlesbourg were merged into the city of Charlesbourg. In 2002, Charlesbourg was in turn merged with other municipalities in Quebec City to form a new, large city. Charlesbourg became one of the boroughs of Quebec City.\nCharlesbourg's earlier name was Bourg Royal, but it was changed in honour of Charles Borromeo, its patron saint. This Catholic saint was a leading figure of the Counter-Reformation combat against the Protestant Reformation.\nAn 18th-century British map depicts the place name Charlebourg.\nTerritory.\nThe territory of the borough is divided in six quarters, only two of which have official names: Notre-Dame-des-Laurentides and Des J\u00e9suites. The borough is also equally divided into five electoral districts for municipal elections. The quarters and districts do not correspond, unlike for other boroughs such as Beauport.\nThe other four quarters have numeric identifiers and will receive official names when neighborhood councils are formed and names are adopted.\nQuarters.\nCorresponds to the former city of Orsainville.\nCorresponds to the former municipality of Charlesbourg-Est.\nIncludes the portion of the borough located west of Henri-Bourassa Boulevard, between the \"Corridor des Cheminots\" to the south and Jean-Talon Boulevard to the North. In particular, the historic borough of Charlesbourg - the Trait-Carr\u00e9 - with the Church of Saint-Charles-Borrom\u00e9e, listed as an historic monument in 1959, as well as the Magella-Paradis House and the Moulin des Jesuites.\nCorresponds to the former parish of Saint-Rodrigue. It is bounded on the NNW by the Corridor des Cheminots, a cycle track located partly on an old railway track. It is a residential service area. The La Fourmili\u00e8re Primary School dates back to the 1940s and the Catholic church dates to 1962. The \"Les Galeries Charlebourg\" shopping center and Loblaws supermarket were built on the site of an important fur trading post. The area is also home to the offices of the Quebec Ministry of Natural Resources.\nDemographics.\nThis residential suburb of Quebec City is the fourth-largest urban centre of the Qu\u00e9bec Urban Community. Like Beauport, it has increased by more than 20,000 people over the last 25 years.\nAccording to the Canada 2006 Census:"}
{"id": "731910", "revid": "50457599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731910", "title": "Saint-Leonard, Quebec", "text": "Saint-Leonard ( ; ) is a borough (\"arrondissement\") of Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Formerly a separate city, it was amalgamated into the city of Montreal in 2002. The former city was originally called Saint-Leonard de Port Maurice after Leonard of Port Maurice, an Italian saint. The borough is home to Montreal's Via Italia.\nGeography.\nSaint-Leonard is located in the northeastern part of the Island of Montreal. It is bordered by five boroughs: Montr\u00e9al-Nord to the north and northwest, Anjou to the east, Mercier\u2013Hochelaga-Maisonneuve to the southeast, Rosemont\u2013La-Petite-Patrie to the south and Villeray\u2013Saint-Michel\u2013Parc-Extension to the southwest and west. Jean-Talon Street East (Rue Jean-Talon Est) traverses through the borough, connecting it to Villeray\u2013Saint-Michel\u2013Parc-Extension and Anjou.\nFeatures.\nHighways.\nQuebec Autoroute 40 (\"Autoroute M\u00e9tropolitaine\"), part of the Trans-Canada Highway, traverses the area. Exits 76, 77 and 78 are in Saint-Leonard.\nPublic Transportation.\nPublic transportation in Saint-Leonard is managed by the \"Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 de transport de Montr\u00e9al\" (STM). Saint-Leonard has an extensive bus network in the borough with a total of 14 bus routes. There are 12 daytime routes including two express routes and 2 night routes. The STM's 141 Jean-Talon Est bus serves Jean-Talon Street East, with buses taking off at every 10 minutes maximum during peak hours from Saint-Michel and Honor\u00e9-Beaugrand metro stations. The Mascouche Exo line runs through the borough and has a stop at Gare Saint-L\u00e9onard-Montr\u00e9al-Nord. While lacking in a connection to the Metro system, the future Blue Line extension of the Montreal Metro, which is previewed to open in 2031, will have three stations located in Saint-Leonard, with all of them located along Jean-Talon Street East. The Projet structurant de l\u2019Est (PSE) is a proposed light rail line and revitalization project of Montreal's end. The proposed route includes 31 stations spread over a 38-kilometer stretch with around 5 stations in the borough. No date for the completion of the project has been given.\nMalls.\nCarrefour Langelier is a small-sized shopping mall located in Saint-Leonard, at the corner of Jean-Talon Street East and Langelier Boulevard. Saint-Leonard is also home to the Le Boulevard shopping centre, although a portion of the mall is actually located in Villeray\u2013Saint-Michel\u2013Parc-Extension.\nCommunity Centre.\nAn important English, French and Italian community centre, the Leonardo Da Vinci Centre (\"Centre Leonardo Da Vinci\") is located along Lacordaire Boulevard, near Ar\u00e9na Martin Brodeur.\nHistory.\nThe parish of Saint-Leonard-de-Port-Maurice was founded in April 1886 and eventually became the City of Saint-Leonard-de-Port-Maurice on March 5, 1915. Saint-Leonard was traditionally a rural francophone hamlet with under a thousand people until the mid-twentieth century. The town became increasingly developed and urban throughout the twentieth century, benefiting from the expansion of the City of Montreal and a massive wave of Italian immigration which enriched life in the area with numerous cafes and restaurants. In 2016, the number of Italian Canadians in Saint-Leonard was 25,510. Maghrebis people make up a diverse group in the city; 3,900 people are of Berber ethnic origin and 3,770 people are of Arab ethnic origin. It is one of the most diverse and multi-cultural neighbourhoods on the Island of Montreal and about 49% of the population is foreign-born. Today, the Saint-Leonard has the 10th highest population of Montreal's 19 boroughs and is the 8th most densely populated borough.\nItalian Canadian presence.\nThe borough has one of the highest concentrations of Italian Canadians in the city, along with Rivi\u00e8re-des-Prairies (RDP). As such, it has surpassed Montreal's rapidly gentrifying Little Italy as the centre for Italian culture in the city, with numerous cultural institutions and commercial enterprises serving the city's second-most populous cultural community. The stretch of Jean Talon Street between Langelier and Viau Boulevards has become known as Via Italia. By necessity, many services are available in Italian, English and French (the Leonardo da Vinci Centre, for instance, offers cultural activities and events in the three languages). The borough is characterized by its spacious, wide-set semi-detached brick duplexes (and triplexes, four-plexes, and five-plexes \u2014 an architectural style unique to Montreal), backyard vegetable gardens, Italian bars (caf\u00e9s), and pastry shops serving Italian-Canadian staples such as cannoli, sfogliatelle, and zeppole. At some times of year, it is possible to observe seasonal Italian traditions like the making of wine, cheese, sausage, and tomato sauce in quantity. These activities bring extended families and neighbours together and often spill out into front driveways.\nSports and recreation.\nAquatics.\nThe Saint-Leonard Aquatic Complex () was built in 2006 and is home to three swimming pools: one recreational basin, one pool and one acclimation basin that includes a turbo bath spa. There are also two saunas, one for women and one for men.\nSkate parks.\nSkaters can skate safely in the skate park located in Parc Delorme. Admission to the park is free, and it is open to the public May through October.\nCycling paths.\nSaint-Leonard has 10\u00a0km of bike paths around the borough, that connect various parks, pools and municipal structures. On November 1, 2022, the city of Montreal announced its Vision v\u00e9lo 2023-2027 which plans to increase Montreal's cycling network by 200\u00a0km. This includes 2 REV (R\u00e9seau Express V\u00e9lo) routes passing through Saint-Leonard on Lacordaire Boulevard and the other on Jean-Talon Street. If all goes to plan this will be the first time that Saint-Leonard will be connected to the rest of the Montreal bike network.\nA bike repair station is located next to the bike path on the Boulevard Robert entrance to Parc Wilfrid-Bastien.\nHockey.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard has two hockey arenas, Ar\u00e9na Martin Brodeur, located on 5300 Boulevard Robert, and Ar\u00e9na Roberto Luongo, located on 7755 Rue Colbert. These arenas host local games, and usually provide food, locker rooms, showers and public free-skating.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard also has many outdoor hockey rinks in the winter. There are seven rinks set up before winter, and then they are iced when the temperature is appropriate. There was a delay of rink making in 2007 when the weather was warmer than usual.\nSoccer.\nSoccer is a very popular sport for the youth in Saint-L\u00e9onard. Every large public park in Saint-L\u00e9onard has a soccer field open to the public.\nFigure skating.\nBoth Saint-L\u00e9onard arenas are used by the figure skating community. Many Olympic and World Champions have trained here in different disciplines like singles, pairs, dance and synchronized skating.\nOther activities.\nThe city has a domed football stadium, Stade H\u00e9bert, which is home to the Saint-L\u00e9onard Cougars of the CJFL football league.\nThere are bocce courts located at almost every public park.\nThere are two ping-pong tables located at Parc Delorme.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard contains a cavern located at Pie XII Park.\nEducation.\nSchools.\nSince the replacement of denominational (Catholic/Protestant) school boards with linguistic (French/English) ones, Saint-L\u00e9onard is served by one school board for the English schools and a school service centre for French schools. All French schools are part of the Centre de services scolaire de la Pointe-de-l'\u00cele (CSSP\u00ce) while all English schools are part of the English Montreal School Board (EMSB).\nThe French language high school is \"\u00c9cole secondaire Antoine de Saint-Exup\u00e9ry\".\nFrench language primary schools:\nThe English language secondary school is Laurier Macdonald High School\nEnglish language primary schools:\nPublic libraries.\nThe borough of Saint-L\u00e9onard's Library is part of the Montreal Public Libraries Network.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard's first library opened in 1966, in a very modest house on Jarry Street. In 1974, the new city hall and current library were built side by side on Lacordaire Boulevard (photo to the right). Expanded in 1984, the library has modernized over the years and is home to the Port-Maurice Gallery.\nGovernment.\nFederal and Provincial Representation.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard leans heavily Liberal at both the provincial and federal levels. While at the municipal level it leans exclusively towards Ensemble Montr\u00e9al.\nJeanne-Mance\u2013Viger is the electoral district representing the borough of Saint-L\u00e9onard in the National Assembly in Quebec city. The current MNA is Filomena Rotiroti from the QLP first elected in 2008.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard\u2014Saint-Michel and Honor\u00e9-Mercier are the electoral districts representing Saint-L\u00e9onard in the House of Commons in Ottawa. During the 2022 redistribution a part of Saint-Leonard was redistributed into Honor\u00e9-Mercier. The current MPs Patricia Lattanzio and \u00c9ric St-Pierre are from the LPC first elected in 2019 and 2025 respectively.\nBorough council.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard is divided by Lacordaire Boulevard into two city council districts, Saint-L\u00e9onard-Est and Saint-L\u00e9onard-Ouest. The borough elects a borough mayor, who also sits on Montreal City Council; each district elects one city councillor and one borough councillor. The borough mayor, city councillors, and borough councillors make up the borough council. As of the 2025 Montreal Municipal Election the borough Mayor, both borough councillors and one city councillor are from Ensemble Montr\u00e9al while one city councillor is from \u00c9quipe St-L\u00e9onard.\nMayors.\nIncludes mayors of the former city (1886\u20132001) and current borough (2001- ) of Saint-L\u00e9onard:\nNotable people and companies.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard is the hometown of notable people such as Roberto Luongo, Nadia G and Martin Brodeur. Notable companies from Saint-L\u00e9onard include Saputo Inc.\nSaint-L\u00e9onard is also the place where the Snow blower was invented by one of their citizens, Arthur Sicard."}
{"id": "731911", "revid": "20957809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731911", "title": "The Frogs (band)", "text": "The Frogs are an alternative rock band founded in 1980, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, by brothers Jimmy and Dennis Flemion. The brothers mainly wrote and performed short, catchy pop songs, but they are also known for their improvised home recordings that are delivered in a comedic style, and often include controversial issues such as race, religion, and sexuality (notably homoeroticism). A history of strife has hindered the band, although a devoted fan base that includes many well-known musicians has supported the group.\nHistory.\nEarly years: 1980\u20131989.\nBrothers Jimmy Flemion and Dennis Flemion began playing as the \"Gila Monsters\" and \"Stupid Frogs\" in 1980, frequenting Milwaukee clubs and coffeehouses. In 1983, bassist Jay Tiller joined the group. That same year, Jimmy began wearing what was to become his trademark stage gimmick, a pair of six-foot bat wings, inspired by the band's set list, which at that time featured many glam rock songs about death and gloom. Soon the brothers also began wearing wigs at their performances, and using pyrotechnics. Hence, \"wings and wigs\" became synonymous with the band.\nAlthough in their early days the Frogs played mostly in coffeehouses, they developed a larger following due mostly to their fan-friendly shows.\nIn 1988, Brian Hill joined The Frogs as bassist and would continue to make appearances with the group. That same year saw two significant events related to the Frogs' recording career. The first event was the release of the Frogs' debut self-titled album, which they began recording in 1986. Sources disagree on whether the album was self-released or released by Drag City Records; it is undisputed, however, that only about 1,000 copies were pressed.\nThe second event ended up bringing the group to public attention: Jay Tiller gave a tape of the Frogs' improvised home recordings to his friend Steve Albini, and the tape eventually made its way to Gerard Cosloy, then head of Homestead Records. Cosloy approached the band and offered to release an album. The Frogs were hoping that Homestead would re-release their first album, but Cosloy wanted to release an LP of the group's improvised home recordings, originally recorded on 4-track reel-to-reel with two microphones, which dealt with over-the-top homoeroticism. Since the tapes had not been intended to be released, the group hedged at first, but eventually they relented, and mixed a 14 track collection of songs. The result was \"It's Only Right and Natural\", The Frogs' second LP, released in 1989. Songs like \"Been a Month Since I Had a Man\" and \"Gather 'Round for Savior No.\u00a02\" gave the album (and the band) a unique theme. Homestead announced that the Frogs were leaders in a \"new gay supremacy movement,\" and the media ran with it.\nThe album was received with mixed reactions; some listeners were ecstatic, while others, who either disliked the subject matter or misunderstood the concept, were not as enthusiastic. In the gay press, writer Adam Block wrote, \"I'd find the record a lot more remarkable if I believed the Frogs were actually gay.\" \"It's Only Right and Natural\" was even denounced by Pat Robertson on \"The 700 Club\" and a number of conservative religious organizations as proof of Satan's control over the entertainment industry.\nGrunge and success: 1990\u20132000.\nIn 1991, the Frogs produced a new album titled \"Racially Yours,\" which included songs sung from the point of view of both blacks and whites who find themselves in various race-related situations and predicaments. The lyrics were equally serious and satirical. The Frogs' label Homestead was unwilling to release the album (although the album was distributed freely by fans through bootlegs). It was eventually released in 2000 by the Four Alarm label. The Frogs' further plans for a live album went unfulfilled, as labels they pursued all seemed to be suffering through bankruptcy and management problems. Jay Tiller left the band in 1992, to be replaced by Damian Strigens, although there were several substitutes in the meantime, including such notables as Eddie Roeser from Urge Overkill and Kelley Deal from the Breeders.\nIn 1994, the Frogs followed Gerard Cosloy to a new label, Matador Records, releasing two singles. They also recorded the EP \"Starjob,\" produced by Billy Corgan (who used the pseudonym \"Johnny Goat\"); however, the EP wouldn't be released until 1997.\nIn 1996, Matador released an album of old home-recorded and improvised Frogs material called \"My Daughter the Broad.\" It became a fan favorite of the band's material.\nIn 1997, \"Starjob\" was finally released, by Scratchie Records, but the EP almost immediately went out of print when it failed to sell enough units to satisfy the label. \"Starjob\" contains well-produced studio tracks, including \"Lord Grunge\" and one of the most well known Frogs songs, \"I Only Play 4 Money.\"\nIn 1999, the Frogs covered \"Vacation\" by the Go-Go's for a tribute album. In that same year, the Four Alarm label issued another LP of the Frogs' old home-recorded and improvised material, called \"Bananimals\". To support these two releases, the Frogs played in Canada for the first time. However, they were stopped at Canadian Customs as officials seized all of their merchandise, declaring it \"pornographic.\" The Frogs had to play their Canadian shows without any merchandise to sell.\nThe Frogs, through their unique sense of humor, have gained a small but very devoted fan base. Although critics have attacked the Frogs for poor taste, well-known bands and performers have come to their defense.\nKurt Cobain and Nirvana.\nAfter meeting Nirvana singer Kurt Cobain in 1993, the Frogs wrote two songs about him and also made him a videotape, \"Toy Porno.\" The VHS featured select live performances and stop-motion animation with painted action figures. Action figures and dolls were used as sexually promiscuous characters in various short sketches. The tape became constant viewing material on Nirvana's tour bus. The videotape has since been made available to fans and has become a cult classic.\nBilly Corgan and The Smashing Pumpkins.\nIn 1993, the Smashing Pumpkins' frontman Billy Corgan saw the Frogs at a small club in Madison, Wisconsin, and invited them to open for The Pumpkins. The Frogs were soon opening for Pearl Jam, Mudhoney, Urge Overkill, and other bands who were fans of the group, to mixed reaction.\nIn the summer of 1994, the Frogs played the second stage at Lollapalooza, with Billy Corgan joining them for their encore of \"I Only Play 4 Money\" and \"Lord Grunge.\" Corgan continued to support and promote the Frogs by producing a short film, \"Meet the Frogs,\" which he included on the Smashing Pumpkins' 1994 \"Vieuphoria\" video compilation.\nFrom August 1996 to February 1997, Dennis Flemion replaced Smashing Pumpkins' recently deceased keyboard player Jonathan Melvoin for the Pumpkins' Infinite Sadness Tour. During each night's encore, Jimmy Flemion performed \"1979\" (which was influenced by an unreleased Frogs song, \"Pleasure\") with the Smashing Pumpkins, as well as selecting audience members to dance on stage. The Flemion brothers also appeared on the Smashing Pumpkins' \"Tonight, Tonight\" single, and sang backing vocals on 1998's \"Adore.\"\nBeck.\nIn 1995, Beck used a sample of the Frogs' song \"I Don't Care If U Disrespect Me (Just So You Love Me)\" on his song \"Where It's At\", included on his 1996 release \"Odelay\"\nEddie Vedder and Pearl Jam.\nIn 1995, Pearl Jam included the Frogs' cover of \"Rearviewmirror\" (credited to all members of Pearl Jam, but largely written by lead singer Eddie Vedder) as the b-side to their \"Immortality\" single. The following year, Pearl Jam released a song called \"Smile\" on their \"No Code\" album. According to a story that Vedder told while performing in Milwaukee in 2006, the lyrics of \"Smile\" were taken directly from a note that Dennis Flemion hid inside Vedder's notebook when Vedder was on stage performing. The words used in the note are taken from the Frogs songs \"This Is How I Feel\" and \"Now I Wanna Be Dead.\" Vedder told a similar story on Oct. 8, 2000, before performing \"Smile\" at Alpine Valley Music Theater in East Troy, Wis., although he didn't identify Dennis by name. In the segue between \"Daughter\" and \"Smile,\" which you can hear on the bootleg from this show, Vedder says, \"Someone wrote me a note in my notebook once. He's a good friend of mine. Jeff or Stone wrote this song and they needed words and these words were in this notebook. So every time a copy of 'No Code' is sold, my friend gets like 2/3 of a penny. Which adds up to, well 'No Code,' like $20.\" Dennis also gave Vedder a small pair of bat wings from the Frogs' early days, and Vedder has proudly displayed them behind his guitar amplifier. The wings reportedly can be seen on the front cover of Pearl Jam's \"Touring Band 2000.\"\nEddie Vedder has sung \"I Only Play For Money,\" \"Starboy,\" and \"The Longing Goes Away\" with the Frogs on more than one occasion, and Pearl Jam played \"I Only Play For Money\" twice in 1995, although one of the performances was during the soundcheck.\nSebastian Bach.\nIn 1997, Jimmy Flemion joined Sebastian Bach's touring band. Rather than stripping Jimmy of his trademark bat wings, the whole band adopted costumes as well. Jimmy also recorded a side project called The Last Hard Men with Bach, Kelley Deal and Jimmy Chamberlin. Bach also performed \"Lord Grunge\" with the Frogs on an infamous MTV appearance on \"Oddville.\" The Frogs destroyed their set and broke several rules set forth by the show's producers, so the producers retaliated by only broadcasting the first verse of the song.\n2001-2012.\nThe Frogs' studio effort \"Hopscotch Lollipop Sunday Surprise\" was released by Scratchie in 2001. However, Scratchie wasn't happy with the finished album, and they put it out of print after only a few months, just like they had with the previous \"Starjob\" EP. Fans were still enthusiastic about the band's Scratchie releases, regardless .\nAfter Damian Strigens exited the band in 1998, past bassists such as Brian Hill and Jay Tiller returned for some appearances, while some new bassists began performing with the band, including Josh Silverman, David Geschke, and John W. Busher. Australian Ben Lee made a special guest appearance on bass in New York City on September 28, 2001.\nIn 2004, R.T. Rybak, mayor of Minneapolis, crowd-surfed at a Frogs concert at First Avenue, a popular nightclub in the Twin Cities, fulfilling a promise made earlier in the summer when the club temporarily closed due to financial difficulties.\nThe group played a 25th anniversary concert at the Cactus Club in Milwaukee in 2005. Jimmy Flemion opened the show by singing \"Now You Know You're Black\" from \"Racially Yours\". One attendee noted, \"[I]t was a successful fiasco once again...Jimmy is really cute when he wears the bear hat as part of his costume.\"\nOn November 13, 2007, Jimmy performed with the Smashing Pumpkins at The Backyard in Austin, TX. The Frogs would later open for the Pumpkins on December 7, 2008, in Chicago.\nIn 2009, the Frogs were part of the lineup for UK 2009 Weekend Two, curated by The Breeders, of the All Tomorrow's Parties music festival. The band was chosen by Animal Collective to perform the album \"It's Only Right &amp; Natural\" in its entirety at the All Tomorrow's Parties festival in May 2011.\nIn December 2011, two new studio albums were announced via Jimmy's Twitter account, entitled \"Count Yer Blessingz\" and \"Squirrel Bunny Juniper Deluxe\". The albums were released on iTunes and Spotify on July 5, 2012.\nOn July 7, 2012, Dennis went missing at Wind Lake in Racine, Wisconsin. His body was recovered from the water on the evening of July 10. His death was ruled an accidental drowning.\n2013-present.\nIn the wake of Dennis Flemion's death, Eddie Vedder wrote \"Future Days\", which was released in 2013 on the Pearl Jam album, \"Lightning Bolt\". Jimmy announced on the band's Facebook page that the band would continue despite Dennis' passing. On July 7, 2017, Jimmy played a tribute show to Dennis at the Barracuda in Austin, Texas. A final album was announced plus talks of a potential documentary.\nFor its 30th anniversary in 2019, \"It\u2019s Only Right and Natural\" was reissued on End Of All Music. The vinyl reissue features remixed and remastered audio of the original album (the original album was accidentally pressed in mono when released in 1989) and comes housed in a gatefold sleeve with newly added artwork (plus track-by-track liner notes and intro by Jimmy).\nIn November 2019, the Frogs announced a short tour consisting of Jimmy Flemion on guitar and Evan Dando (of the Lemonheads) on drums.\nAs a follow-up to 2019's reissue of \"It's Only Right and Natural\", the Frogs released \"1st\" on April 3, 2020. Recorded during January 1986, the album, also known as \"Pat's Session\", was intended to be the initial release for the band prior to \"The Frogs\" 1988 self-titled debut. Minneapolis based Twin/Tone Records approached The Frogs and expressed fawning interest, extending an invitation to record the band after seeing them live in 1985. Dennis opted not to release due to the overabundance of reverb. Throughout the years, the discussion would persist from other sources on pursuing to fix the reverb on \"1st\". Thirty-two years later, Jimmy would take the recordings to a Portland, Oregon recording studio to remaster in 2018. The studio engineer successfully cleaned-up and removed the excess reverb.\nOn February 14, 2020, Jimmy confirmed on the Frogs' Facebook page that a documentary on the band is in the works.\nIn 2021, a \"final\" album, \"Damaged Goods / Sinned in Reverse\" was released digitally. 2022 saw an expanded version of their debut album and an alternate version of \"Hopscotch Lollipop Sunday Surprise\". The following year, a reissue of an early demo release, \"Death Songs\", was released onto streaming services for its 40th anniversary. It was followed by \"1980\", a collection of demos recorded in 1980. Expanded and alternate versions of the \"Starjob\" EP, entitled \"Starjob +\" and \"Starjob ?\", rounded out the year's releases. In 2024, Jimmy announced he would be releasing a series of live versions of the band's material, beginning with \"Rare\", focusing on live shows between 1980 and 1984, through \"Well Done\", which focused between 2000 and 2006. Later that year, a deluxe version of \"Racially Yours\", entitled \"Racially Mine\", was released. 2025 saw the release of \"Out of the Missed\", a recording of their final show before Denis' passing at Emo's in 2011. \nDiscography.\nDemo releases.\nPrior to releasing their debut album, the band self-released several demos in very limited numbers. Some songs appearing on these early releases were later re-recorded, but many stayed exclusive. This continued after their debut release, as demo versions of future releases were often given out at shows or given out through their mailing list."}
{"id": "731912", "revid": "2092270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731912", "title": "Clemson", "text": "Clemson may refer to:"}
{"id": "731914", "revid": "1233313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731914", "title": "List of districts of Taipei by population density", "text": ""}
{"id": "731915", "revid": "69412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731915", "title": "Brossard", "text": "Brossard ( , , ) is a municipality in the Mont\u00e9r\u00e9gie region of Quebec, Canada and is part of the Greater Montreal area. According to the 2021 census, Brossard's population was 91,525. It shares powers with the urban agglomeration of Longueuil and was a borough of the municipality of Longueuil from 2002 to 2006.\nAccording to the website of the city of Brossard, the municipality was named in honour of the Brossard family (the surname derives from a word meaning \"brushwood\"), a prominent settler family of the area whose presence was first attested in 1766. A member of this family, Georges-Henri Brossard, had been mayor of the predecessor parish municipality of La Prairie-de-la-Madeleine since 1944 and became the first mayor of Brossard.\nOther names that were considered included Maisonneuve (which was also considered as a possible name for the Champlain Bridge), La V\u00e9rendrye, Marquetteville, or Forgetville. The latter name, in honour of the recently deceased Mgr. Anastase Forget, bishop of Saint-Jean; however, Premier Maurice Duplessis intervened, to avoid the connotations of the English word \"forget,\" and the name Brossard was ultimately chosen.\nHistory.\nThe city of Brossard was founded on February 14, 1958, and was before part of La Prairie-de-la-Madeleine Parish. Its first mayor was Georges-Henri Brossard. At the very beginning, there were 3,400 inhabitants.\nThe city has some homes dating from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, particularly along Prairies Road.\nOn August 8, 1964, a portion of land from Greenfield Park was added to Brossard. Furthermore, Notre-Dame-du-Sacr\u00e9-C\u0153ur was annexed to Brossard on March 25, 1978, becoming the \"A\" section to form the current city.\nIn the 1970s, an attempt was made by Ren\u00e9 D\u00e9sourdy to construct a cemetery in Brossard. The attempt failed due to the water table being too high in most of the city, and as of 2024 Brossard has no cemetery.\nBrossard was forcibly merged into the city of Longueuil on January 1, 2002, as a result of municipal reorganization in Quebec.\n and a demerger movement was started by Pierre Sen\u00e9cal, Jacques St-Amant and Gilles Larin which resulted in a municipal referendum, the largest demerger vote in Qu\u00e9bec, that took place on June 20, 2004. 38.70% of the 50,539 qualified voters voted YES for demerger, which met the requirements (35% or more of total voting population) needed for de-amalgamation. As a result, Brossard would continue to be a borough of the city of Longueuil only until the end of 2005.\nOn January 1, 2006, Brossard was reconstituted as a city and Jean-Marc Pelletier was elected as the new mayor. However, Brossard still remains part of the urban agglomeration of Longueuil and thus, Brossard sits on the agglomeration council which determines certain powers of reconstituted cities.\nOn November 11, 2017, Doreen Assad was elected mayor of Brossard, the first woman of Egyptian descent to hold such position in Canada.\nGeography.\nBrossard is surrounded by four municipalities on the South Shore of Montreal: Saint-Lambert, Longueuil (Borough of Greenfield Park and Borough of Saint-Hubert), Carignan and La Prairie. Brossard is situated on the Saint Lawrence River to the west and by the Saint-Jacques River to the south. \"(see Geographic location section below)\"\nMany parks are scattered throughout the city of Brossard, including Parc \u00e9cologique des Sansonnets. The parks are connected to the other areas of the city by about 37\u00a0km (23 miles) of biking paths. The city also has a municipal library building connected to its city hall building via an indoor passageway.\nBrossard is subdivided into many smaller sections. These sections are characterized by having street names that all begin with the same letter of the alphabet. The only notable exceptions are few major arteries (such as Taschereau Boulevard and Rome Boulevard) that span across two or more sections. The lettered sectors were created under a 1960s planning and zoning scheme, pursuant to a guiding plan established by the engineering firm of Beauchemin, Beaton et Lapointe, and had the goal of easier wayfinding in the absence of a right-angled street grid. Some of the sectors correspond to former neighbourhoods or municipalities, as follows:\nSome constructions in the \"A\" and \"R\" sections of Brossard are older than the city itself because they were built in the former communities of Notre-Dame-du-Sacr\u00e9 Coeur and Brosseau Station, respectively. The \"M\" and \"V\" sections are the first neighbourhoods built after the inauguration of Brossard in 1958.\nTwo sparsely inhabited parts of Brossard, containing no streets other than main arteries and industrial roads, are arbitrarily called the \"X\" and \"Y\" sections.\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Brossard had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nAside from French, a variety of other languages are spoken in Brossard on a daily basis, as according to the 2021 census. The prominent languages spoken primarily at home and their relative share are French (43%), English (18%), Mandarin (6%), Yue (4%), Spanish (4%) and Arabic (3%).\nBrossard is among the most multicultural municipalities in Greater Montreal, as there are 30 ethnic groups that represent at least 1% of the population. According to the 2021 census the prominent ethnic groups and their relative share are Chinese (16%), French (14%), Canadian (13%). Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois (5%) and Irish (4%)\nBrossard is a mainly residential suburb with a moderate diversity of structural styles. The most popular styles of housing are semi-detached houses which represent 44% of private dwellings and apartment buildings with fewer than five storeys which represent 31% of private dwellings.\nStatistics for the population according to mother tongue (the first language learned and still remembered) vary significantly from the statistics for home language (the language spoken most often at home), as well as also varying significantly from the statistics for official language usage.\nEconomy.\nBrossard is the commercial hub of the south shore, most businesses located along Taschereau Boulevard, inside Champlain Mall and Place Portobello or at the lifestyle centre, Quartier DIX30. A particular segment of Taschereau Boulevard near La Prairie and the Saint-Jacques River is home to an exceptionally large concentration of car dealerships offering most available makes and models.\nArts and culture.\nBrossard has a rich cultural scene influenced by its diverse population. The city hosts various cultural events, including music festivals, art exhibitions, and theater performances, reflecting its vibrant arts community. Additionally, Brossard's cultural heritage is celebrated through its museums, galleries, and historical sites, providing residents and visitors alike with opportunities to explore and appreciate its artistic and cultural offerings.\nBrossard is home of many festivities:\nSports.\nL'association de soccer de Brossard has been given exclusive authority from the City of Brossard to organize recreational and competitive soccer primarily for youth (ages 4 to 18). Programs are also offered for adults. The Association is affiliated with FIFA via the Canadian and Quebec Provincial soccer federations.\nThe sport is amongst the most popular in the city given it is quite accessible (i.e. very little equipment required) and the continued increase in popularity of the sport in North America. Consequently, there are more than 2,500 annual registrations of which approximately one third are for the winter season and the rest for the summer season. The summer program is run on the various soccer fields in the city. The winter program is held indoors, at the CN Sports Complex and at various gyms in the schools within the city boundaries. Notorious footballers from Brossard includes former Canadian national team player Patrice Bernier and ex bundesliga striker Olivier Occean.\nThe Association also hosts the Brossard Challenge tournament during the first weekend in August every year. The tournament attracts teams from all areas of the province of Quebec. There are also teams from outside Quebec, mainly Ontario.\nThe CN Sports Complex is a multipurpose sports facility located in Brossard that contains two ice hockey rinks and one indoor soccer pitch. It is used as the official practice facility of the National Hockey League's Montreal Canadiens.\nBrossard is home to the Brossard Mustangs and the Brossard Flames in the Ligue de Hockey Junior A Rive-Sud.\nFigure skating in Brossard is very popular amongst children of all ages. The Brossard Figure Skating Club (Brossard FSC) is the only organization to provide figure skating lessons in accordance with Skate Canada's standards in the city of Brossard.\nLessons and ice-time are held at the CN Sports Complex facilities, a facility built for the NHL's Montreal Canadiens as a practice and fitness centre, as well as the Michel-Normandin Arena, named after Michel Normandin, a famous Montreal sports announcer.\nBrossard FSC offers training for various groups of age and skill, available to the city's population. Its CanSkate 3-5 program offers weekly beginner lessons for children aged 3\u20135. The Brossard FSC also administers the Skate Canada program to skaters aged 5 and above in group lessons, semi-private lessons, private lessons, and offers specialized development opportunities and free extra ice-time for more advanced skaters. Finally, every few months, Brossard coordinates a series of tests for its more advanced skaters to have certain skills assessed by certified judges and therefore be able to move-up levels in order to learn and practice more advanced skills.\nBrossard FSC is very famous for its annual high-quality Ice Show, which attracts many sponsors and enough spectators to hold four representations of the show each year. This event occurs at the end of the winter season, and is the biggest event of the FSC. All skaters are invited to participate. This grand celebration allows young skaters to show their talent dressed in magnificent costumes designed just for them. The routines are choreographed by the club's Skate Canada certified coaches, to music that fits into a chosen theme. All of this is performed to an elaborate light show with spectacular decor. The 43rd edition of this showcase will be held in April 2014.\nOne of the club's most famous skaters is S\u00e9bastien Britten, he was \"the 1995 Canadian national champion. He represented Canada at the 1994 Winter Olympics, where he placed 10th. In 1998, he beat several Olympic and World medallists to win the 1998 World Professional Figure Skating Championships held in Jaca, Spain. Following his retirement from competitive skating [in 1997], he began working as a coach and choreographer\".\nBrossard fields teams in Quebec's Little League Baseball system at various age levels. It hosted the 2004 Canadian Little League Baseball Tournament at Marie Victorin Park.\nCity Leagues includes:\nGovernment.\nMunicipal.\nThe mayor of the City of Brossard is Doreen Assaad. There are 10 city councillors in the Brossard City Council.\nFederal and provincial.\nThe city of Brossard is located in the federal riding of Brossard\u2014Saint-Lambert, and its Member of Parliament is Alexandra Mend\u00e8s of the Liberal Party of Canada. In the past three elections, the Liberals have carried the riding by wide margins.\nIn provincial politics, Brossard forms part of the La Pini\u00e8re riding and its Member of the National Assembly is Gaetan Barrette of the Quebec Liberal Party. The La Pini\u00e8re riding is heavily Liberal in provincial elections, with their candidates obtaining wide margins against the other major provincial parties. In 2017, Laporte riding was extended and now cover the north-eastern part of the territory.\nInfrastructure.\nRoads.\nBrossard is serviced by Autoroutes 10 (Autoroute des Cantons-de-l'Est), 15, 20 (Autoroute Jean-Lesage), and 30 (Autoroute de l'Acier), as well as Routes 132 and 134 (Taschereau Boulevard). Autoroute 30 runs along the west side of Brossard. Along the Saint Lawrence River on the east side of the city, Autoroutes 15 and 20 overlap with Route 132; 15 to the south and 20 to the north. At the Champlain Bridge interchange, Autoroutes 15 and 20 overlap 10 and feed into the Champlain Bridge, which crosses over into Montreal. Autoroute 10 also meets with Route 134 at the Taschereau Interchange which runs north south through the heart of Brossard.\nOther important roads include Taschereau Boulevard, Rome Boulevard, Milan Boulevard, Matte Boulevard, Pelletier Boulevard, Lapini\u00e8re Boulevard (known as Victoria Avenue in Saint-Lambert and Greenfield Park), San Francisco-Tisserand-Stravinski Avenues loop, Panama Avenue\u00a0\u2014 Auteuil Avenue, Provencher Boulevard and Chemin des Prairies.\nPublic transit.\nBrossard is served by three R\u00e9seau express m\u00e9tropolitain stations; Panama, Du Quartier and Brossard, since July 31, 2023.\nThe R\u00e9seau de transport de Longueuil (RTL) serves much of Brossard's territory as well as the rest of the South Shore with buses. Exo runs buses to other Montr\u00e9al suburbs as far as Saint-Hyacinthe from Panama and Brossard stations.\nBrossard is in the ARTM's B fare zone.\nEducation.\nThe \"Commission scolaire Marie-Victorin\" operates French-language public schools.\nSecondary:\nPrimary:\nThe Riverside School Board operates English public schools.\nPrimary schools:\nPreviously the South Shore Protestant Regional School Board operated Protestant public schools in Brossard."}
{"id": "731916", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731916", "title": "Verdun, Quebec", "text": "Verdun ( , ) is a borough (\"arrondissement\") of the city of Montreal, Quebec, located in the southeastern part of the island.\nLong known as a working class neighbourhood, it has experienced significant gentrification and social change in the 21st century.\nEtymology.\nThe borough's name is a shortening of Saverdun, in France, the hometown of its early settler Zacharie Dupuy.\nHistory.\nEarly history.\nThere is archaeological evidence of indigenous peoples in the area as early as 5,500 years ago. A portage along what is now the boulevard LaSalle was used to pass the Lachine Rapids.\nA trading post was established at nearby Fort Ville-Marie in 1611 and colonization of the Island of Montreal began in 1642. In 1664 the \u00cele-Saint-Paul (now Nuns' Island) became a seigneury.\nThe first colonial settlers were militiamen granted concessions in 1665 in exchange for defence against the Iroquois. Afterwards, the area was known as \"C\u00f4te-des-Argoulets\" (Sharpshooter's Ridge), in reference to the arquebus, an infantry gun. The settlement was where the grande Saint-Pierre river drained Lac \u00e0 la Loutre into the St. Lawrence River. The lake has since been filled to create the Turcot rail yard, and the St. Pierre partly covered over and partly integrated with canals.\nIn 1671, the Fief of Verdun is created when land is granted to Zacharie Dupuy, who derived the name Verdun from his native village of Saverdun in France. Two years later he donated the land to the Congr\u00e9gation de Notre-Dame, who in 1710 built the building now preserved as the Maison Nivard-De Saint-Dizier. This house is named for \u00c9tienne Nivard Saint-Dizier, whose father bought the lands from the nuns in 1769.\nFollowing the Great Peace of Montreal in 1701, farmers settled along Lower Lachine Road (now boulevard LaSalle), which connected Fort Ville-Marie with Lachine.\nAround 1800, Chemin de la Rivi\u00e8re-Saint-Pierre (now rue de l'\u00c9glise) was opened. The Canal de l'Aqueduc, now Verdun's northwestern boundary, was dug in 1854 to furnish Montreal with drinking water from the St. Lawrence.\nIn 1874, a group of local land-owners met in a farmhouse called Le Pavillon, located at the corner of Lower Lachine Road and Chemin de la Rivi\u00e8re-Saint-Pierre, and decided to found the village of Rivi\u00e8re-Saint-Pierre. Chartered by the government of Quebec, it became the municipality of Verdun the following year. Settlement had been hampered due to frequent flooding, but a dyke was built starting in 1896; its completion resulted in a population boom. The dyke itself became host to Verdun's popular Boardwalk, before land reclamation in the 70s led to the expansion of the waterfront park along the whole length of Verdun's riverbank.\nThe first \u00c9glise Notre-Dame-des-Sept-Douleurs (now part of the school of the same name) was built in 1899, followed by a combined town hall, fire hall, and police station in 1908. The tramway also arrived in 1899, connecting Verdun to downtown. A larger \u00c9glise Notre-Dame-des-Sept-Douleurs de Montr\u00e9al was built in 1914.\n20th century.\nIn 1881, the Montreal Hospital for the Insane was founded as a Protestant counterpart to the Catholic H\u00f4pital Saint-Jean-de-Dieu (now H\u00f4pital Louis-H.-Lafontaine) east of the city. It would be built on two farms, purchased in 1887 and 1907, in the western end of Verdun. Affiliated with McGill University in 1946, it was renamed the Douglas Hospital in 1965. Today, not only is it one of Verdun's largest public institutions, but its campus is one of the borough's most important greenspaces.\nVerdun became a town in 1907 and a city in 1912. Between 1911 and 1924 the population tripled and urbanization expanded rapidly \"westward\" (according to \"Montreal directions\" - actually due southward), and the farms were divided for residential use. The Moffat area west of rue Desmarchais was built in with \"plexes\"\u2014the typical Montreal layered apartment\u2014between 1920 and 1930, and the Crawford Park area in the far west of the town was built starting in 1945, in a more suburban style unlike the orthogonal grid used in the rest of Verdun. The Verdun Natatorium was built in 1930, the Verdun Hospital in 1932, and the Verdun Auditorium in 1938.\nThe municipality of \u00cele-Saint-Paul, occupying what was by then universally known as Nuns' Island or \u00cele des S\u0153urs, was annexed to Verdun in 1956. Then a chiefly agricultural area, it was rapidly urbanized following the opening of the Champlain Bridge in 1962, with development including contributions by the famous Modernist architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. Rapid development would continue to the present day, with the erosion of the sensitive natural woodland of the Domaine Saint-Pierre becoming an increasingly pressing concern.\nBack in Verdun proper, in the post-war period, the area around the church, along rue Wellington and rue de l'\u00c9glise, became the nucleus of commercial development. A new city hall was built on Rue de Verdun in 1958. The Green Line of the Montreal Metro was extended into Verdun in 1978, its construction delayed due to a collapse in rue Wellington during the construction of De L'\u00c9glise station. Besides De l'\u00c9glise in downtown Verdun and Verdun station in front of the town hall, LaSalle station was built in vacant land in a former industrial area in the east of the borough, left vacant by the demolition of the vast British Munitions Supply Co. facilities; the Metro station would become the heart of a new residential area called La Poudri\u00e8re after the munitions factories.\nHowever, improved access to downtown Montreal meant a decline in local commerce. A program of subsidies and revitalization starting in the 1990s reinvigorated the rue Wellington commercial corridor.\nVerduners voted 68% \"no\" in the 1980 sovereignty referendum and 59.6% \"no\" in the 1995 referendum. In 1992, Verduners voted 53.66% in favour of the Charlottetown Accord.\n21st century.\nIn 2002, the municipal reorganization of Montreal saw the city of Verdun become a borough of Montreal. The majority of Verduners chose not to hold a demerger referendum in 2004-2006.\nEarlier in the 20th century, Verdun was a partially dry community, with taverns, night clubs and cabarets banned since 1965, and alcohol sales restricted to restaurants with liquor licences, grocery stores and the SAQ. In December 2010, the borough announced that it was planning to allow some microbreweries or performance spaces to sell alcohol. The ban was eventually lifted entirely in 2013, and today Verdun is home to many thriving microbreweries and bars.\nIn recent years, Verdun, along with the neighbouring Le Sud-Ouest borough, have experienced rapid gentrification and social change. Long considered to be one of the city's poorer neighbourhoods, it's today one Montreal's most desirable areas to live, with a large influx of students and professionals arriving in the last decade.\nIn 2019, Verdun hosted a part of the Jazz Fest on Wellington Street, to much praise from the public and critics.\nIn 2020, it was listed as the eleventh \"coolest\" neighbourhood in the world by Time Out magazine.\nGeography.\nThe borough of Verdun is partly located on the Island of Montreal, as well as including all of Nuns' Island.\nThe Montreal Island part of the borough is defined on its eastern side by the St. Lawrence River, and on the west by the Canal de l'Aqueduc. Several bridges cross the canal to connect Verdun with Ville-\u00c9mard and C\u00f4te-Saint-Paul. To the south it extends to Avenue G\u00e9rald and LaSalle. To the north it extends to Pointe-Saint-Charles and the Quebec Autoroute 15 which connects it to Nun's Island.\nNeighbourhoods within Verdun include;\nDemographics.\nDemographics of Verdun:\nIn the early part of the 20th century, Verdun had a majority English-speaking population and until 1954 \u2014 when the 80,000 residents made Verdun the third largest city in Quebec\u2014 the anglophone and francophone populations were roughly equal. It is now about two-thirds French-speaking.\nEconomy.\nVerdun was historically a chiefly residential area; however, the late 1990s and 2000s saw a gradual revival of the Wellington Street commercial artery, with several shops, restaurants, and caf\u00e9s opening.\nBy 2020, Wellington was considered one of the city's trendiest streets, comparable to Mount Royal Avenue in the Plateau, and hosted part of the Jazz Fest in 2019.\nBell Canada is also headquartered in Verdun, on the northern tip of Nuns' Island.\nOther commercial areas include Verdun Street, Church Street (rue de l'Eglise) and Commerce Place (Place du Commerce) on Nuns' Island.\nThe Montreal Highland Games, located in Verdun, bring visitors to the neighbourhood each August.\nTransport.\nVerdun is served by Quebec Autoroutes 15 and 20, which skirt the northern and eastern edges of its mainland portion and merge with Autoroute 10 on Nuns' Island. The island is connected to the Island of Montreal and the South Shore via the Champlain Bridge.\nThe borough is contemplating the possibility of building a service bridge between the Island of Montreal and Nuns' Island. The bridge would connect Boul. Marguerite-Bourgeoys on Nuns' Island with Rue Galt in mainland Verdun. It would be accessible only to city services, public transit, cyclists, and pedestrians.\nThe borough is served by the Green Line of the Montreal Metro: Verdun, De l'\u00c9glise, and LaSalle stations, along with Jolicoeur station immediately across the aqueduct in Ville-\u00c9mard. All of these stations have been in service since 1978. Other than the metro, there is also the bus. The following bus routes pass through Verdun: 12 Ile Des Soeurs, 37 Jolicoeur, 38 De l'\u00c9glise, 61 Wellington, 71 Pointe-Saint-Charles, 107 Verdun, 108 Bannantyne, 112 Airlie and 114 Angrignon.\nThe R\u00e9seau express m\u00e9tropolitain light metro serves Verdun at \u00cele-des-Soeurs station, with the station opening on July 31, 2023. This provides automated train service connecting Verdun to Montreal Central Station, Brossard, Downtown Montreal and other areas of Greater Montreal, including, by 2027, Montreal-Trudeau International Airport at the YUL\u2013Montr\u00e9al\u2013Trudeau Airport station.\nHealth.\nSignificant medical facilities in the borough include the Douglas Mental Health University Institute (commonly known as \"the Douglas\"), a McGill University psychiatric hospital.\nThe francophone H\u00f4pital de Verdun, affiliated with the Universit\u00e9 de Montr\u00e9al Faculty of Medicine, is also in the borough.\nRecreation.\nRecreational facilities include the Verdun Auditorium, a hockey arena and concert hall, the home of the now defunct Junior de Montr\u00e9al team.\nExpansive parks (L'Honorable-George-O'Reilly, Mgr-J-A-Richard, and Arthur-Therrien) with bike paths line the banks of the St. Lawrence River, making Verdun one of the few parts of the Island of Montreal to open onto the whole length of its waterfront, a legacy of the flooding that once impeded settlement. The waterfront also features the Verdun Natatorium, public-access docks and a marina, an open-air dancing shell, a lawn bowling green, and football, baseball, and soccer fields. In 2019, a public beach was opened behind the Auditorium.\nCycling is also available along the Canal de l'Aqueduc on the opposite edge of the borough; on rue de Verdun; and around and through Nuns' Island, including the cycle-accessible Champlain Bridge ice structure connecting to \u00cele Notre-Dame and the south shore.\nAnother of the borough's major green spaces, the Domaine Saint-Paul (Bois\u00e9 de l'\u00cele-des-S\u0153urs), preserves the natural woodland of Nuns' Island, home to more than a hundred species of birds as well as the scarce brown snake. Trails lead through the woodland. The campus of the Douglas Hospital is also a major green space open to the public.\nThe borough's community centres are the Centre communautaire Marcel-Giroux, near the borough hall; the Centre communautaire Elgar on Nuns' Island; and the Centre culturel de Verdun, in the western part of the borough. The latter two facilities include public libraries and art exhibition spaces.\nGovernment.\nMunicipal.\nVerdun is governed by a borough council consisting of the borough mayor and of one city councillor and two borough councillors elected by each of two council districts, for a total of seven members. The borough mayor and the two city councillors represent Verdun on Montreal City Council.\nAs of the November 7, 2021 Montreal municipal election, the current borough council consists of the following councillors:\nFederal and provincial.\nThe borough is part of the federal ridings of LaSalle\u2014\u00c9mard\u2014Verdun and Ville-Marie\u2014Le Sud-Ouest\u2014\u00cele-des-S\u0153urs and is coextensive with the provincial riding of Verdun.\nEducation.\nElementary and high schools.\nThe \"Commission scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeoys\" (CSMB) operates Francophone public schools.\nAdult education centres include:\nProfessional development centres include:\nHigh schools include:\nElementary schools include:\nThe Lester B. Pearson School Board (LBPSB) operates Anglophone public schools.\nPrior to 1998 Commission des \u00e9coles catholiques de Verdun operated Roman Catholic schools of all language backgrounds.\nPublic libraries.\nThe Montreal Public Libraries Network operates the \u00cele des S\u0153urs Branch and the Verdun Branch in Verdun."}
{"id": "731918", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731918", "title": "Sharon Spitz", "text": ""}
{"id": "731920", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731920", "title": "Flying Padre", "text": "Flying Padre is a 1951 short subject black-and-white documentary film. It is the second film directed by Stanley Kubrick. The film is nine minutes long and was completed shortly after Kubrick had completed his first film for RKO, the short subject \"Day of the Fight\" (1951). The studio offered him a follow-up project for their Screenliner series.\nSynopsis.\nThe subject of \"Flying Padre\" is a Catholic priest in rural New Mexico, Reverend Fred Stadtmueller. Known to his parishioners as the \"Flying Padre\", his 4,000-square mile parish is so large, he uses a Piper Cub aircraft (named the \"Spirit of St. Joseph\") to travel from one isolated settlement to another.\nThe film shows two days in his daily life, with the Reverend providing spiritual guidance, saying a Funeral Mass, and other glimpses of his life such as his breakfast routine at the parish house. His days include a funeral service for a ranch hand, and counseling of two young parishioners who have been quarrelling. In the climax of the film. the \"Flying Padre\" also operated as an impromptu air ambulance by flying a sick child and his mother to hospital.\nProduction.\nAfter Kubrick sold his first short film, the self-financed \"Day of the Fight\", to RKO in 1951 for $4,000 (pocketing a $100 profit), the company advanced the 23-year-old filmmaker money to make a follow-up project, a documentary short for their \"Pathe Screenliner\" series which specialized in short human-interest documentaries. He originally wanted to call the film \"Sky Pilot\" but the studio did not like the title.\n\"Flying Padre\" is narrated by CBS announcer Bob Hite. \nReception.\nIn an interview in 1969, Kubrick referred to \"Flying Padre\" as a \"silly thing\". \"Flying Padre\", however, was an important landmark in his budding career as a filmmaker. \"It was at this point that I formally quit my job at \"Look\" to work full time on filmmaking,\" Kubrick stated in an interview.\""}
{"id": "731922", "revid": "62058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731922", "title": "Pierrefonds, Quebec", "text": "Pierrefonds () is a former city in southwestern Quebec, Canada. It is located along the Rivi\u00e8re des Prairies on the western shore of the southern part of the Island of Montreal (part of what is colloquially called the West Island). It was merged into Montreal on January 1, 2002, and is today part of the borough of Pierrefonds-Roxboro.\nHistory.\nIts origin dates back to the eighteenth century, and is intimately linked to that of Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve, which was composed at the time of Pierrefonds, L'\u00cele-Bizard, Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve, Roxboro and Dollard-des-Ormeaux.\nIn 1904, following several previous divisions, the Town of Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve was split into two new villages: Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve and Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve de Pierrefonds. This was the first appearance of the name Pierrefonds. At the heart of the conflict leading to the separation was the notary and local member of the Legislative Assembly Joseph-Adolphe Chauret, who, in 1902, had a \"seigniorial\" residence built for himself reminiscent of the community of Pierrefonds in France\u2019s Department of Oise. He named his thatched home \"Ch\u00e2teau Pierrefonds\", apparently providing the name for the future city.\nIn 1935 the two villages of Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve and Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve de Pierrefonds merged once again into a single village called Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve. The name Pierrefonds disappeared, resurfacing on December 18, 1958, when the rest of the territory of the old parish became the City of Pierrefonds.\nDissolution.\nOn 2002-01-01, as part of a province-wide municipal reorganization, Pierrefonds was joined with Senneville and they became a borough of the city of Montreal named Pierrefonds-Senneville. In the demerger referendums of 2004, Senneville demerged from Montreal but Pierrefonds did not. On 2006-01-01, Pierrefonds merged with the former city of Roxboro to form the Montreal borough of Pierrefonds-Roxboro.\nOrigin of the name Pierrefonds.\nOne of the leading figures who brought about the 1904 split was a notary named Joseph-Adolphe Chauret.\nInspired by an engraving of the feudal Castle of Pierrefonds in Oise, France, in 1902 Chauret built a turreted, gabled residence with the inscription Ch\u00e2teau de Pierrefonds on two of its socles. The building only somewhat resembled the much heralded fortress Chauret finally visited in 1911 when he journeyed in Europe. At a time when few people travelled abroad, his trip aroused considerable curiosity among local residents \u2013 so much so that crowds greeted him upon his return to Canada.\nThe name Pierrefonds therefore can be traced to Chauret\u2019s residence.\nIn 1987, Chauret's property was converted into a residence for the elderly named \"Ch\u00e2teau Pierrefonds\".\nDemographics.\nPre-amalgamation demographics, Canada 2001 Census.\nNote: last census figures before annexation by Montreal."}
{"id": "731923", "revid": "49829305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731923", "title": "Bombing of Guernica", "text": "On 26 April 1937, the Basque town of Guernica (\"Gernika\" in Basque) was aerially bombed during the Spanish Civil War. It was carried out at the behest of Francisco Franco's rebel Nationalist faction by its allies, the Nazi German Luftwaffe's Condor Legion and the Fascist Italian Aviazione Legionaria, under the code name Operation R\u00fcgen. The town was being used as a communications centre by Republican forces just behind the front line, and the raid was intended to destroy bridges and roads. The operation opened the way to Franco's capture of Bilbao and his victory in northern Spain.\nThe attack gained controversy because it involved the bombing of civilians by a military air force. Seen as a war crime by some historians and argued as a legitimate attack by others, it was one of the first aerial bombings to capture global attention. Under the international laws regarding aerial warfare in 1937, Guernica was a legitimate military target. The number of victims is still disputed; the Basque government reported 1,654 people killed at the time, while local historians identified 126 victims (later revised by the authors of the study to 153). A British source used by the USAF Air War College claims 400 civilians died. Soviet archives claim 800 deaths on 1 May 1937, but this number may not include victims who later died of their injuries in hospitals or whose bodies were discovered buried in the rubble.\nThe bombing is the subject of the anti-war painting \"Guernica\" by Pablo Picasso, which was commissioned by the Spanish Republic. It was also depicted in a woodcut by the German artist Heinz Kiwitz, who was later killed fighting in the International Brigades, and by Ren\u00e9 Magritte in the painting \"Le Drapeau Noir\". The bombing shocked and inspired many other artists, including a sculpture by Ren\u00e9 Ich\u00e9, one of the first electroacoustic music pieces by Patrick Ascione, musical compositions by Octavio Vazquez (\"Gernika\" Piano Trio), Ren\u00e9-Louis Baron and Mike Batt (performed by Katie Melua), and poems by Paul Eluard (\"Victory of Guernica\"), and Uys Krige (\"Nag van die Fascistiese Bomwerpers\", English translation from the Afrikaans: \"Night of the Fascist Bombers\"). There is also a short film from 1950 by Alain Resnais titled \"Guernica\".\nBackground.\nGuernica (Gernika in Basque; officially Gernika-Lumo), in the Basque province of Biscay, and 30\u00a0kilometres east of Bilbao, has long been a centre of great significance to the Basque people. Its \"Gernikako Arbola\" (\"the tree of Gernika\" in Basque) is an oak tree that symbolises traditional freedoms for the Biscayan people and, by extension, for the Basque people as a whole. Guernica was considered a key part of the Basques' national identity; it was long celebrated as \"the home of Basque liberties\". Guernica was also the location of the Spanish weapons manufacturer Astra-Unceta y C\u00eda, which had been a supplier of firearms to the Spanish military and police forces since 1912. At the time of the bombing, the population of Guernica was 7,000 people, and the battlefront was 30\u00a0kilometres away.\nMilitary situation.\nAdvances by Nationalist troops led by General\u00edssimo Francisco Franco had eaten into the territory controlled by the Republican Government. The Basque Government, an autonomous regional administrative body formed by Basque nationalists, sought to defend Biscay and parts of Gipuzkoa with its own light Basque Army. At the time of the raid, Guernica represented a focal strategic point for the Republican forces. It stood between the Nationalists and capture of Bilbao. Bilbao was seen as key to bringing the war to a conclusion in the north of Spain. Guernica also was the path of retreat for the Republicans from the northeast of Biscay.\nPrior to the Condor Legion raid, the town had not been directly involved in the fighting, although Republican forces were in the area; 23 battalions of Basque army troops were at the front east of Guernica. The town also housed two Basque army battalions, although it had no static air defenses, and it was thought that no air cover could be expected due to recent losses of the Republican Air Force.\nMarket day.\nMonday 26 April was market day; there were more than 10,000 people in the former Basque capital. Generally speaking, a market day would have attracted people from the surrounding areas to Guernica to conduct business. Market days consisted of local farmers bringing in their crops to sell to the village people. They would bring the crops of the week's labour to the main square, which is where the market was held.\nThere is a historical debate over whether a market was being held that particular Monday as, prior to the bombing, the Basque government had ordered a general halt to markets to prevent congestion of roads, and restricted large meetings. It is accepted by most historians that Monday \"...would have been a market day.\"\nLuftwaffe doctrine, 1933\u20131942.\nJames Corum states that a prevalent view about the \"Luftwaffe\" and its \"Blitzkrieg\" operations was that it had a doctrine of terror bombing, in which civilians were deliberately targeted in order to break the will or aid the collapse of an enemy. After the bombing of Guernica in 1937, Wielu\u0144 and Warsaw in 1939, and Rotterdam in 1940, it was commonly assumed that terror bombing was a part of \"Luftwaffe\" doctrine. During the interwar period the \"Luftwaffe\" leadership officially rejected the concept of terror bombing, but continued to allow bombings which might result in heavy civilian casualties:\nGeneral Walther Wever compiled a doctrine known as \"The Conduct of the Aerial War\" in 1935. In this document, which the \"Luftwaffe\" adopted, the \"Luftwaffe\" rejected Giulio Douhet's theory of terror bombing. Terror bombing was deemed to be \"counter-productive\", increasing rather than destroying the enemy's will to resist. Such bombing campaigns were regarded as a diversion from the \"Luftwaffe's\" main operations, destruction of the enemy armed forces.\nThe raid.\nThe Condor Legion was entirely under the command of the Nationalist forces. The order to perform the raid was transmitted to the commanding officer of the Condor Legion, Oberstleutnant Wolfram von Richthofen, from the Spanish Nationalist Command.\nMission planning.\nWhile questions are often raised over the intent of the raid, the diaries of the planner and commander of the mission made public in the 1970s indicate that an attack on Guernica was part of a wider Nationalist offensive in the area. It was intended to support the attack by 25 Nationalist battalions already in place. According to Payne:\nRichthofen, understanding the strategic importance of the town in the advance on Bilbao and restricting Republican retreat, ordered an attack against the roads and bridge in the Renteria suburb. Destruction of the bridge was considered the primary objective since the raid was to operate in conjunction with Nationalist troop movements against Republicans around Marquina. Secondary objectives were restriction of Republican traffic/equipment movements and the prevention of bridge repair via the creation of rubble around the bridge.\nPrevious Nationalist moves.\nOn 22 March 1937, Franco started to put this plan into action, assisted by his air chief, General Alfredo Kindel\u00e1n. General Emilio Mola would start the campaign against the north (Asturias, Santander and Biscay). All Nationalist equipment was sent to the north front to support Mola. The main reason to attack first in the north was the belief that a decisive victory could be won there quickly. Mola wanted to make this fight quick; he let the Basque people know that if they wanted to surrender he would spare their lives and homes. On 31 March Mola's threat was put into action and the fighting began in Durango.\nThe Condor Legion persuaded Franco to send troops to go north and to be led by General Emilio Mola. On 31 March 1937, Mola attacked the province of Biscay, which included the bombing of Durango by the Condor Legion. Republicans put up a tough fight against the German troops but eventually were forced back. Many refugees fled to Guernica for safety, about a thousand people turned to Guernica. On 25 April, Mola sent a warning to Franco saying that he was planning a heavy strike against Guernica.\nTo meet these objectives, two Heinkel He 111s, one Dornier Do 17, eighteen Ju 52 \"Behelfsbomber\", and three Italian Savoia-Marchetti SM.79 of the Corpo Truppe Volontarie were assigned for the mission. These were armed with medium high-explosive bombs, light explosive bombs and incendiaries. The ordnance load for the 24 bombers was in total. A follow-up to the bombing raid was also planned for the next day involving Messerschmitt Bf 109 raids in the area. The order was noted on 26 April by Richthofen as:\nStarting at once: A/88 and J/88 for free fighter bomber mission on the streets near Marquina-Guernica-Guerriciaz. K/88 (after Returning from Guerriciaz), VB/88 and Italians for the streets and the bridge (including suburb) east of Guernica. There we have to close the traffic, if we finally want a decision against personnel and materiel of the enemy. Vigon agrees to move his troops for blocking all streets south of Guernica. If this succeeds, we will have trapped the enemy around Marquina.\nFirst five waves of raid.\nThe first wave arrived over Guernica around 16:30. A Dornier Do 17, coming from the south, dropped approximately twelve bombs.\nThe three Italian SM.79s had taken off from Soria at 15:30 with orders to \"bomb the road and bridge to the east of Guernica, in order to block the enemy retreat\" during the second wave. Their orders explicitly stated not to bomb the town itself. During a single 60-second pass over the town, from north to south, the SM.79s dropped thirty-six light explosive bombs. C\u00e9sar Vidal says that at this point, the damage to the town was \"relatively limited... confined to a few buildings\", including the church of San Juan and headquarters of the \"Izquierda Republicana\" (\"Republican Left\") political party.\nThe next three waves of the first attack then occurred, ending around 18:00. The third wave consisted of a Heinkel He 111 escorted by five Regia Aeronautica Fiat CR.32 fighters led by Capitano Corrado Ricci. The fourth and fifth waves were carried out by German twin-engined planes. Vidal notes:\nIf the aerial attacks had stopped at that moment, for a town that until then had maintained its distance from the convulsions of war, it would have been a totally disproportionate and insufferable punishment. However, the biggest operation was yet to come.\nSubsequent raids.\nEarlier, around noon that day, the Junkers Ju 52s of the Condor Legion had carried out a mission around Gerrikaraiz. Following this they landed to re-arm and then took off to complete the raid on Guernica. The attack would run from north to south, coming from the Bay of Biscay and up the course of the Urdaibai estuary.\nThe 1st and 2nd Squadrons of the Condor Legion took off at about 16:30, with the 3rd Squadron taking off from Burgos a few minutes later. They were escorted from Vitoria-Gasteiz by a squadron of Fiat fighters and Messerschmitt Bf 109Bs of G\u00fcnther L\u00fctzow's 2. \"Staffel\" (2nd Squadron) of Jagdgruppe 88 (J/88), for a total of twenty-nine planes. L\u00fctzow himself did not participate in the attack, he was on home leave from 8\u201329 April 1937.\nOutcome.\nThe bombing shattered the city's defenders' will to resist, allowing the rebel Nationalists to overrun it. This indirectly supported Douhet's theory, which predicted this result. The rebels faced little resistance and took complete control of the town by 29 April. The attacks destroyed most of Guernica. Three-quarters of the city's buildings were reported completely destroyed, and most others sustained damage. Among infrastructure spared were the arms factories \"Unceta and Company\" and \"Talleres de Guernica\" along with the Assembly House \"Casa de Juntas\" and the Gernikako Arbola. Since the Luftwaffe was then operating on Wever's theory of bombing as a military action, the mission was considered a failure as a result. However, the rubble and civil disorder that the raid created severely restricted the movement of Republican forces.\nCasualties.\nThe number of civilian fatalities is now set at between 170 and 300 people. Until the 1980s, it had been generally accepted that the number of deaths had been over 1,700, but these numbers are now known to have been exaggerated. Historians now agree that the number of deaths was under 300.\nAn early study by Gernikazarra Historia Taldea estimated the number of victims to be 126, later revised to 153, and is still considered by the organisation to be provisional. Those incomplete data roughly correspond to the mortuary records of the town that survived, and do not include the 592 deaths registered in Bilbao's hospital. Ra\u00fal Arias Ramos in his book \"La Legi\u00f3n C\u00f3ndor en la Guerra Civil\" states that there were 250 dead. The study by Joan Villarroya and Josep M. Sol\u00e9 i Sabat\u00e9 in their book \"Espa\u00f1a en Llamas: la Guerra Civil desde el Aire\" states that there were 300 dead. These studies, cited by historians such as Stanley Payne and Antony Beevor, as well as media such as the BBC and \"El Mundo\", provide the currently recognized death toll in those numbers.\nAfter Nationalist forces led by General Emilio Mola's forces took the town three days later, the Nationalist side claimed that no effort to establish an accurate number had been made by the opposite side. The Basque government, in the confused aftermath of the raids, reported 1,654 dead and 889 wounded. Such a number roughly agreed with the testimony of British journalist George Steer, correspondent of \"The Times\", which estimated that 800 to 3,000 of 5,000 people perished in Guernica. These figures were adopted over the years by some commentators. These figures are represented in a majority of the literature from that period and up to the 1970s.\nThe Nationalist junta gave a patently false description of the events, claiming that the destruction had been caused by Republicans burning the town as they fled, and seemed to have made no effort to establish an accurate number. At an extreme low, the Francoist newspaper \"Arriba\" claimed, on 30 January 1970, that there had only been twelve deaths.\nBombs to casualty ratio.\nIssues with the originally released figures were raised following an appraisal of large scale bombing raids during the Second World War. A comparison of the Guernica figures with the figures of dead resulting from air attacks on major European cities during the Second World War exposed an anomaly. James Corum uses the figure of forty tons of bombs dropped on Guernica, and calculates that if the figure of 1654 dead is accepted as accurate, then the raid caused 41 fatalities per ton of bombs. By way of comparison, the Dresden air raid during February 1945, which saw 3,431\u00a0tons of bombs dropped on the city, caused fewer deaths per ton of bombs: 7.2\u201310.2 fatalities per ton of bombs dropped. Corum, who ascribes the discrepancy between the high death toll reported at Guernica and in other cases such as Rotterdam to propaganda, goes on to say that for Guernica:\n...a realistic estimate on the high side of bombing effectiveness (7\u201312 fatalities per ton of bombs) would yield a figure of perhaps 300\u2013400 fatalities in Guernica. This is certainly a bloody enough event, but reporting that a small town was bombed with a few hundred killed would not have had the same effect as reporting that a city was bombed with almost 1,700 dead\".\nMedia reporting.\nEnglish-language media.\nThe first English-language media reports of the destruction in Guernica appeared two days later. George Steer, a reporter for \"The Times\", who was covering the Spanish Civil War from inside the country, authored the first full account of events. Steer's reporting set the tone for much of the subsequent reportage, with part of his report stating \"Guernica was not a military objective... The object of the bombardment was seemingly the demoralisation of the civil population and the destruction of the cradle of the Basque race.\" Steer also pointed out German complicity in the action, citing three small bomb cases stamped with the German Imperial Eagle as evidence. Steer's report was syndicated to \"The New York Times\" and then worldwide, . There was coverage in other national and international editions also:\nNoel Monks, an Australian correspondent in Spain for the London \"Daily Express\", was the first reporter to arrive on the scene after the bombing. He received the following cable from his office, \"Berlin denies Guernica bombing. Franco says he had no planes up yesterday owing fog. Queipo de Llano says Reds dynamited Guernica during retreat.\"\nOverall, the impression generated was one which fed the widely held public fear of air attack which had been building throughout the 1930s, a fear which accurately anticipated that in the next war the aerial forces of warring nations would be able to wipe whole cities off the map.\nStanley Payne observes that the presence of Steer was the reason for Guernica becoming a major media event; the town of Durango had been bombed a few days before and suffered higher casualties yet received comparatively little attention. Steer was first on the scene and was eager to dramatise the effect of bombing on cities in order to encourage war preparedness. Steer inflated the number of casualties by 1000%.\nRepublican media reporting.\nAfter the attack, Jos\u00e9 Antonio Aguirre published the following press note:\nThe Republican statement counted 1645 deaths and 889 wounded.\nThe attribution of responsibility is correct, the cause of the bombing is probably wrong but reasonable at the time, and machine gun fire was indeed used to create fires in the village. However, it contains lies and is intentionally misleading in various points. It suggests that the bombing was sustained through three hours, while three hours is the time between the first and last round among the three made on Guernica. The numbers of dead and injured have been now proven to be completely false and impossible for the size of the locality. The intentional, individual chase of civilians by German planes has not been disproven (nor proven) but has some problematic points in it. Some prestigious foreign journalists like Hemingway, Orwell and Saint-Exup\u00e9ry reported it, but none of them actually saw it and have other proven inaccuracies in their accounts of the war. No material proofs of it had been found, and the streets of the village are far too narrow for the chase to take place. It is possible that the chase of civilians happened outside of the urban area as the population was fleeing from the bombs, but a generalized chase and murder of the witnesses seems like a pointless waste of resources, or even a counter producing action, if the goal of the German airforces was, as it is now believed, to extend demoralization and fear in the neighbouring villages.\nDenial by Franco's military board.\nOn 27 April, the day after the bombing, Nationalist general Gonzalo Queipo de Llano broadcast a statement through Union Radio Seville accusing the local population and \"the reds\" of having deliberately burned and dynamited Guernica, while calling international reporters liars. Among the facts that he provided to prove his version of events were the \"absolute absence of German airforces\" and the bad weather.\nOn 29 April, in view of the outrage caused by the bombing in European public opinion, Franco's propaganda service issued an official statement parroting Llano's claims. This theory found favor in conservative British journals, including \"The Times,\" which even put in doubt the testimony from its own correspondent, George Steer. While Republican forces had pursued a scorched earth strategy in the past (notably in Irun, which was dynamited), Steer's reporting was supported by other journalists who witnessed the same levels of destruction. Furthermore, there were objective proofs available at the time of the falsehood of Llano's version: the bad weather he mentioned happened hours after the attack had been perpetrated, and the city's weaponry as well as the bridge to get to it were among the few buildings which had not been destroyed.\nThe Germans denied any involvement, as well. Von Richthofen claimed that the Germans had a target that was a bridge over the Mundaka River, which was on the edge of town. It was chosen for the fact that it would cut off the fleeing Republican troops. However, even though the Germans had the best airmen and the best planes in Spain, none of their bombs hit the presumed target.\nSome Nationalist reporters suggested that the town had been bombed from the air, but by Republican airplanes. The bombs were said to have been made in the Basque country and the explosions happened because of dynamite stored in the sewers. Another theory by Nationalists was that there were a \"few bomb fragments found\" in Guernica, but the damage was mainly caused by Basque incendiaries. Franco's regime minimized the bombing for decades. In 1970, newspaper \"Arriba\" claimed that there had only been twelve deaths during the bombing raid.\nThe attempted cover-up did more harm than good. The uproar irritated even Hitler, who insisted that Franco's government absolve the Condor Legion from any responsibility. Ironically, the whole affair may have redounded to his advantage, for it had the effect of heightening concern about the destructiveness of the Luftwaffe, a fear that encouraged appeasement of Germany. In the aftermath, Franco reiterated his earlier orders that no open town, without troops or military industry, may be bombed without a direct order from the Generalissimo or the commanding general of the air force.\nViews on the attack.\nThe attack has entered the lexicon of war as an example of terror bombing. It is also remembered by the surviving inhabitants and Basque people as such. Due to the lingering divisions from the conflict, the event remains a source of emotion and public recrimination.\nMilitary intentions.\nA commonly held viewpoint is that the involvement of the Luftwaffe in the Civil War occurred because of shared anti-communism and to form a proving ground for troops employed later during World War II. This view is supported by the comments of then Reichsmarschall Hermann G\u00f6ring at the Nuremberg Trials:\nI urged him (Adolf Hitler) to give support [to Franco] under all circumstances, firstly, in order to prevent the further spread of communism in that theater and, secondly, to test my young Luftwaffe at this opportunity in this or that technical respect.\nOne historian claimed the Germans bombed Guernica in a deliberate attempt to destroy the entire town.\nAccording to James Corum, while the popular view of the attack was a terror bombing aimed at the town, in reality the intended target was the bridge and roads. The issue was that pinpoint bombing was not possible at the time of the attack. Most of the bombers used by the Luftwaffe in Spain did not possess adequate targeting gear and thus the Condor Legion's preferred solution was to carpet the area with bombs to ensure the targets would be hit. Corum also argues against the view that there was a psychological element to the attack, stating that Richtofen seemed unaware of the significance of Guernica to the Basques and his diary indicates he only cared that the attack had been able to shut down logistics in the town. The Nationalists also didn't destroy the Basque parliament building or the Holy Oak, both of which had great cultural significance to the Basque and would have been excellent targets if the raid was meant solely to be a psychological warfare attack. Corum also argues that the attack on the town did not differ in style from the types of attacks the Allies conducted during World War II, and the Condor Legion regarded the attack as a routine tactical operation.\nCarpet bombing.\nAlongside the potential for gains in combat experience it is also thought that various strategic initiatives were first tried as part of Luftwaffe involvement in the conflict. Theories on strategic bombing were first developed by the Luftwaffe with the first exhibition of \"carpet bombing\" in the September 1937 Asturias campaign. Comparisons between the raid on Guernica and the fate of other cities during the conflict are also telling. As the fighting progressed into March 1938, Italian pilots flying as Aviazione Legionaria were involved in thirteen raids against Barcelona involving fire and gas bombs.\nThe use of \"carpet bombing\" was becoming standard practice by Condor Legion personnel. To illustrate this point, military historian James Corum cites an excerpt from a 1938 Condor Legion report on this use of this tactic:\nWe have had notable results in hitting the targets near the front, especially in bombing villages which hold enemy reserves and headquarters. We have had great success because these targets are easy to find and can be thoroughly destroyed by carpet bombing.\nOn the Spanish side, threats made prior to the raid by General Emilio Mola to \"end the war in the North of Spain quickly\" and threats apparently made against Republicans in Bilbao afterward implied a blunting of strategy and that air raids were effective and set to become an increasingly favorite instrument in the Nationalist war effort.\nOther theories.\nVidal outlines some other commonly voiced theories on the raid:\nLegacy.\nThe bombing gained immediate international media attention because of the alleged intentional targeting of civilians by aerial bombers, a strategy widely recognized as \"deviant\", causing \"international horror\".\nSteer's reports on the horrors of Guernica were greatly appreciated by the Basque people. Steer had made their plight known. Basque authorities later honored his memory by naming two streets in his memory and commissioning a bronze bust of him.\nDespite Francoist efforts to play down the reports, they proliferated and led to widespread international outrage at the time. Reactions to and condemnation of the bombing of Guernica is regarded by some historians as a turning point in the construction of the modern concept of human rights.\nPicasso's painting.\nGuernica quickly became a world-renowned symbol of civilian suffering resulting from conflict and inspired Pablo Picasso to adapt one of his existing commissions into \"Guernica\". The Spanish Republican Government had commissioned a work from him for the Spanish pavilion at the Paris International Exposition. Though he accepted the invitation to display a piece, he remained uninspired until he heard of the bombing of Guernica. Before the bombing of Guernica took place, Picasso never cared much for anything to do with politics. Once Picasso heard the news he changed his commissioned work for Spain into a reflection on the massacre.\nPicasso began the painting on 11 May 1937, working on a piece of unbleached muslin (349\u00a0cm x 776\u00a0cm). Since the work was so large, Picasso had to use a ladder and a long-handled brush to reach the furthest corners of the canvas. He spent over two months creating \"Guernica\". He used only black and white paint to invoke the truth-telling authority of documentary photography. \"The protest is found in what has happened to the bodies, the hands, the soles of the feet, the horse's tongue, the mother's breasts, the eyes in the head\u2014the imaginative equivalent of what happened to them in the flesh. We are made to feel their pain with our own eyes.\"\nThe display of Picasso's work at (Republican) Spain's Pavilion during the 1937 World's Fair in Paris reflected the effect on public consciousness. The painting, later adopted as a symbol of Basque nationalism during the Spanish transition to democracy, was displayed near \"Mercury Fountain\", an overtly political work by Alexander Calder that incorporated mercury from the mines of Almad\u00e9n. Today it resides in Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sof\u00eda in Madrid. A tapestry copy of Picasso's \"Guernica\" is displayed on the wall of the United Nations building in New York City, at the entrance to the Security Council room. It was placed there as a reminder of the horrors of war.\nRen\u00e9 Ich\u00e9.\nImmediately after the bombing French sculptor Ren\u00e9 Ich\u00e9 created \"Guernica\", one of his most violent and personal sculptures. He was shocked and horrified by the enormous civilian massacre and worked endlessly on the plaster statue. Ich\u00e9 used his daughter to model a child's body. During his lifetime, it was only exhibited once in 1940.\nGerman apology.\nRecrimination for the activities of the Condor Legion and shame at the involvement of German citizens in the bombing of Guernica surfaced following German reunification in the 1990s. In 1997, the 60th anniversary of Operation R\u00fcgen, then German President Roman Herzog wrote to survivors apologizing on behalf of the German people and state for Germany's role in the Civil War in general. Herzog said he wished to extend \"a hand of friendship and reconciliation\" on behalf of all German citizens. This sentiment was later ratified by members of the German Parliament who went on to legislate in 1998 for the removal of all former Legion members' names from associated German military bases.\n70th anniversary.\nOn the 70th anniversary of the bombing, the president of the Basque Parliament met with politicians, Nobel Peace Prize winner Adolfo P\u00e9rez Esquivel, and deputies from Hiroshima, Volgograd, Pforzheim, Dresden, Warsaw, and Oswiecim, as well as several survivors from Guernica itself. During the meeting they showed images and film clips of the bombing, took time to remember the 250 dead, and read the Guernica Manifesto for Peace, pleading that Guernica become a \"World Capital for Peace\".\n2016 film.\nThe 2016 film \"Guernica\" leads to and culminates in the bombing of Guernica, set against the background of personalities involved in press coverage of the war.\nComparison to other related bombings in the Spanish Civil War.\nBombings of Ja\u00e9n and C\u00f3rdoba.\nOn 1 April 1937, at 17:20, the Spanish city of Ja\u00e9n, one of the few areas in Andalusia under Republican control at that point of the Civil War, was bombed by 6 German bombers. The bombers made a single raid over the city, in which an estimated 150 people were killed. The order for the Ja\u00e9n bombing was written and signed by General Gonzalo Queipo de Llano, and is preserved in the Spanish National Archives.\nOn 1 April 1937, at noon, the Andalusian city of C\u00f3rdoba, under rebel control at the time, had been heavily bombarded by seven bombers under the command of the Republican government. The civil population was warned about the bombing. The main target of the attack was the general military hospital in the city. It is estimated that 40 people were killed by the attack, about half of them in the hospital. The same day at 20:00, the Republican government signed an order to execute \"as many National prisoners as people died in the Ja\u00e9n bombing.\" The order was carried through.\nBombing of Durango.\nThe bombing of Durango is considered the clearest precedent for Guernica. It was perpetrated on 31 March 1937, by the Italian Air Forces in a three-raid pattern, almost identical to that carried out in Guernica. It killed an estimated 250 people and destroyed most of the city.\nBombings of Madrid.\nAlfredo Kindel\u00e1n considers that both Guernica and Durango were \"practice drills\" in the development of more effective bombing strategies to use in bombings of Madrid. The city suffered a similar attack prior to the bombing of Guernica, and further attacks afterwards. Madrid presented a fierce resistance against the National troops that surpassed all of Franco's expectations and forced him to completely modify his attack strategy. A series of air bombings to demoralize the population were ordered both before and after Guernica.\nBombing of Cabra.\nOn 7 November 1938 Cabra was subject to Republican bombing. Three Tupolev SB-2 aircraft departing from the Fuente Alamo airfield (some 300 km away) and operated by Spanish crews performed a single raid; they dropped some 1.8 tons of explosives. There were over 400 casualties recorded, 109 killed and more than 300 other. Historians described the raid as \u201cthe most deadly of those carried out by the Republic in the course of the war\u201d. The extremely high death-to-bombs ratio (60 dead per 1 ton of explosives) was the result of 250-kg bombs exploding on the central square, crowded during the usual morning food market.\nReferences made during commemorations marking other mass bombings.\nBombing of Dresden.\nOn 13 February 2003, during the commemoration of the 58th anniversary of the Bombing of Dresden, inhabitants of Dresden, Germany, including survivors of the firestorm of 1945, joined with witnesses of the bombing of Guernica to issue an appeal to the people of the world:\n&lt;poem&gt;\nAs our television sets show bombers preparing for war against Iraq, we survivors of Guernica and Dresden recall our own helplessness and horror when we were flung into the inferno of bombing\u2014we saw people killed. Suffocated. Crushed. Incinerated. Mothers trying to protect their children with only their bodies. Old people with no strength left to flee from the flames. These pictures are still alive in our memory, and our accounts capture indelibly what we went through.\nFor decades we\u2014and survivors from many other nations\u2014have been scarred by the horror, loss and injuries we experienced in the wars of the 20th century. Today we see that the beginnings of the 21st century are also marked by suffering and destruction. On behalf of all the victims of war throughout the world we express our sympathy and solidarity with all those affected by the terror of 11 September in the US and the war in Afghanistan.\nBut is that very suffering now also to be inflicted upon the people of Iraq? Must thousands more die in a rain of bombs, must cities and villages be destroyed and cultural treasures obliterated?&lt;/poem&gt;\nBombing of Hiroshima.\nOn 26 April 2007, Dr. Tadatoshi Akiba, mayor of Hiroshima and president of Mayors for Peace, compared the experience of Guernica to Hiroshima:\nHuman beings have often sought to give concrete form to our powerful collective longing for peace. After World War I, that longing led to the League of Nations and numerous rules and taboos designed to govern warfare itself. Of these, the most important was the proscription against attacking and killing civilian non-combatants even in times of war. However, the second half of the twentieth century has seen most of those taboos broken. Guernica was the point of departure, and Hiroshima is the ultimate symbol. We must find ways to communicate to future generations the history of horror that began with Guernica...&lt;br&gt;\nIn this sense, the leadership of those here in Guernica who seek peace and have worked hard to bring about this memorial ceremony is profoundly meaningful. The solidarity we feel today derives from our shared experience of the horror of war, and this solidarity can truly lead us toward a world beyond war."}
{"id": "731925", "revid": "194203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731925", "title": "Gilgandra, New South Wales", "text": "Gilgandra is a country town in the Orana region of New South Wales, Australia, and services the surrounding agricultural area where wheat is grown extensively together with other cereal crops, and sheep and beef cattle are raised. The town is the administrative seat of the Gilgandra Shire.\nSited at the junction of the Newell, Oxley and Castlereagh highways, Gilgandra is located in a wide bend of the Castlereagh River, downstream from its source near Coonabarabran, directly downstream from Mendooran, and upstream from Gulargambone and Coonamble. It is 432\u00a0km north-west of Sydney (about six hours' driving time), and is located approximately half way along the inland route from Melbourne to Brisbane. It is known as the town of windmills and the home of the \"Coo-ees\", and is a gateway to the Warrumbungles National Park.\nPopulation.\nAt the , the population of Gilgandra township was 2,600. In the wider Gilgandra area, the population was 4,300, with 96.4% Australian-born and 13.8% identifying as Aboriginal. The largest category of employment was Agriculture and Forestry, which involved 28.6% of the population.\nCastlereagh Waterhole.\nThe name \"Gilgandra\" came from Aboriginal word for the area, and means \"long waterhole\". The water level in the Castlereagh River is variable and the wide, sandy riverbed is frequently dry, or is reduced to a small stream. However, there was a large permanent waterhole in the river, long and deep, near where the township developed, and for many years subsequently. It was the source of the town's name.\nWindmills and Artesian Water.\nGilgandra is situated above the subterranean water of the Great Artesian Basin (GAB) and, specifically, over the Surat Sub-basin of the GAB. Artesian water occurs where porous rocks below the surface, called aquifers, store and carry water underground. When bores are sunk to reach the aquifers, windmills can draw the water to the surface to be stored in tanks. Well over a hundred years ago, windmills were being used by townspeople to access Gilgandra's fresh, drinkable artesian water for their households, and by farmers to obtain water for their stock. Windmills were being advertised in the first Gilgandra newspapers in 1905, with several local people selling and installing them, including plumber Bill Hitchen, later famous for organising the 1915 Cooee march. From the early 20th century, locals and others referred to Gilgandra as a \"town of windmills\", and many references to that can be found.\nIn 1948, it was reported that there were over 300 windmills in Gilgandra. Many can still be seen dotted around the town but few are now in use. The Gilgandra Shire Council built a reticulated water supply in 1966, reducing reliance on private windmills. The council draws on artesian water, operating a network of nine bores to supply water to Gilgandra. In 2016 Gilgandra had the largest single annual licensed entitlement to water from the Great Artesian Basin of any shire council in NSW, at 2,020 megalitres.\nHistory.\nBefore the European squatters took up pastoral runs in the 1830s, the Gilgandra region was home to three Aboriginal language groups: the Gamilaraay, Wiradjuri and Wayilwan. According to archaeological evidence cited in the Warrumbungle National Park guidebook, indigenous groups are believed to have lived to the east of Gilgandra for at least 25,000 years, and in the Warrumbungle Ranges, 70 kilometres to the north, for about 17,000 years.\nGilgandra was proclaimed as a town in 1888, and the first town blocks were sold in 1889. While that was an impetus to growth, the area had been settled by a Europeans for many years before that. Gilgandra's Post Office was formally established in 1867, a local school had opened in 1881, and the first hearings were held in the Gilgandra court house in 1884. The Gilgandra Shire was constituted in 1906.\nOn 20 July 1900, an indigenous man, Jimmy Governor, murdered four members of the Mawbey family, and the children's governess, at their farming property just east of Gilgandra, in the area of Breelong. He was working as a fencing contractor for Mr Mawbey. The story of the murders received great publicity at the time. It was revived 1972 as the basis of a fictional work by Thomas Keneally, \"The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith\".\nDuring World War I, a recruitment march to Sydney began in Gilgandra, known as the Coo-ee March. The men who enlisted on the way became known locally as \"Coo-ees\". The march was given its name because the marchers shouted the old bush call of \"cooee\" at each town along their journey to attract recruits. Twenty-six men left Gilgandra on 10 October 1915. At each town on the route, the marchers were feted and a recruitment meeting was held. By the time they reached Sydney, just over one month later on Friday 12 November 1915, the number of recruits had swelled to 263. They were welcomed on arrival in Sydney with huge crowds lining George Street near the Town Hall to welcome them and an official address given to them by the Minister for Works representing the Premier of New South Wales.\nin 1919, as a peace thanksgiving, parishioners of St Ambrose Church in Bournemouth, England, grateful for the assistance England had received from the Dominions in defending the British Empire, decided to gift \u00a31,200 to the town in the Empire with a good church and wartime service record. Gilgandra was chosen and the money funded the construction of St Ambrose Church, Gilgandra, which commenced in 1920.\nClimate.\nGilgandra experiences a humid subtropical climate (K\u00f6ppen: \"Cfa\"), with hot summers and cool winters. Rainfall is low throughout the year, with a slight peak in summer from thunderstorm activity.\nHeritage listings.\nGilgandra has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\nAttractions.\nSport and Recreation.\nGilgandra has many sporting facilities. Local clubs support participation and arrange training and competitions. \nThe most popular sport in Gilgandra is rugby league. The Gilgandra Panthers rugby league team play in the Castlereagh Cup and have won the competition on six occasions, with the most recent being in 2018. They also won five premierships in the Group 14 competition which ran from 1949 until 2000, and won a Group 11 title in 1989 during their short stint in that competition.\nGilgandra's public swimming pool is located next to the town's main park and is open across the warmer months from October to end March. Learn-to-swim and exercise classes are held here. Set in lovely grassed grounds, the tiled pool was opened in October 1939 and is 33m long. There is also a children's play pool with good sun protection over. Grassed tennis courts are located on a corner opposite the swimming pool (corner Castlereagh and Willie Sts).\nA 9-hole public golf course, with grass greens and a licensed club-house, is located on Racecourse Rd over the bridge from the main part of the town. Golf competitions are held regularly. The golf course is situated entirely within the town's horse racing track.\nThe town has a race course for horse racing, situated on Racecourse Road, where the Gilgandra Jockey Club arranges race meetings during the year, including the Gilgandra Cup held each January. The race course is picturesque with the town's golf fairways and greens inside the boundary of the track.\nThere is a youth club, which has squash courts, basketball courts, and an indoor area. A fitness centre operates out of the facility.\nThere are two main grassed recreation grounds where many different team and club sports are played (cricket, rugby league, football, Little Athletics). The town's original oval is located in Eiraben St and the Ernie Knight Oval is on Warren Rd.\nGilgandra Speedway is a popular track in the district where regular motor (car) racing events are held in many divisions. It is run by Gilgandra District Speedway Club which has hosted both state and national titles here at different times. The track is well fenced and is lit for night racing. It is located on the Newell Highway 4\u00a0km south of the township (direction of Dubbo).\nTourist Attractions.\nThe tourist information centre is located in the Cooee Heritage and Visitor Information Centre, at the south end of the town, on the Newell Highway. Coming from the direction of Dubbo, it is on the right-hand-side just after the grain silos and railway track crossing. Coming from Coonabarabran, Coonamble or Mendooran directions, it is along the river bank on the left-hand-side.\nThe Cooee Heritage and Visitor Information Centre houses several museums and galleries. The Gilgandra Art Gallery exhibits local and visiting artists in a range of mediums, and exhibitions are regularly changed. Aboriginal artefacts and ancient fossils and shells are displayed in the Joy Trudgett Gallery. Family history, including details of Gilgandra locals who enlisted in WW2, is on display in the Allan Wise Gallery where exhibitions are also regularly changed.\nThe Gilgandra Rural Museum displays and preserves an extensive collection of local farming equipment, and agricultural plant and machinery. It was established, and is run, by the volunteers of the \"Gilgandra Historical Society\". The Museum is situated just along from the Cooee Heritage and Visitor Information Centre on the Newell Highway at the edge of Gilgandra and can be identified by a large display windmill outside. Particularly interesting large items include the Howard Rotary Hoe (a version of a cultivator) which was invented at Gilgandra, a Ridley Stripper, and a Ruston &amp; Proctor Steam Traction Engine.\nWindmill Walk commences at the Rural Museum and meanders along the Castlereagh River to the town centre. Picnic spots and BBQ facilities are located along the way.\nThe Gilgandra Native Flora Reserve is 8.5 ha of remnant bushland which features many plant species. The local wildflowers in the reserve are best seen from September to November. There are picnic and barbecue facilities.\nGilgandra has a privately owned observatory open to the public from Wednesday to Sunday.\nHitchen House Museum is set up in the house once owned and lived in by Bill Hitchen, who was the driving force for the Cooee March. Displays in the museum tell the story of the Cooee March. There is a good array of WWI memorabilia in the museum.\nThe Cooee March memorial is a stone cairn marking the spot in Bridge Street where local men commenced the Cooee March on 10 October 1915. A nearby wall mural contributes to the memorial. Recruitment marches like this were called Snowball marches, and sprang up elsewhere in NSW following the example of the Cooee March. The men assembled here in October 1915 to begin their recruitment drive by themselves marching to Sydney.\nThere is a community radio station WARFM, which is on 98.9FM, broadcasting a wide range of programs.\nShops and Services.\nRetail.\nMiller Street is the main street with a full offering of retail stores. The Central Stores offer a range of merchandise from fashion to homewares, books and jewellery. Interest is added with an antiques, two beauty and cosmetic retailers and two hairdressers, a well-stocked pharmacy, newsagent and electrical retailer.\nTarget Country closed its Gilgandra branch on 6 July 2019. However, the main street has a range of grocery providers with a bakery and a butcher and a grocery / liquor store. Farmers, and the community's hardware needs, are met by timber retailers, farm suppliers and farm machinery suppliers, and grain and timber stores as well as hardware store in the main street.\nProfessional Services.\nSeveral different financial/legal professional services firms operate in the town, from two private legal firms, to an insurance broker, three accountants and business services firms. There is a combined real estate/stock &amp; station agency.\nGilgandra Veterinary Clinic serves the needs of farm animal production and large animals, right through to domestic pets.\nEducation Services.\nThere are two primary schools and a public high school, all co-educational:\nA Technical College (TAFE) campus offers vocational training in a range of trade and industry specific areas, such as business administration, and digital photography.\nFor the Under-5's, there is a professionally run community pre-school, and a private early childcare business also offers a pre-school program in addition to long day care.\nReligious Services.\nLike many towns in western NSW, Gilgandra has an array of churches offering services supporting their congregations. Many of these have their own web page with details of the times of their church services. The various churches are:"}
{"id": "731926", "revid": "2108405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731926", "title": "Dollard-des-Ormeaux", "text": "Dollard-des-Ormeaux (; commonly referred to as D.D.O. or simply Dollard) is a city and a predominantly English-speaking suburb of Montreal in southwestern Quebec, Canada. It is the most populous suburb on the Island of Montreal. The town was named after the savior at the Battle of Long Sault; Adam Dollard des Ormeaux.\nThe town was merged with the city of Montreal in 2002, and became part of the borough of Dollard-Des Ormeaux\u2013Roxboro. When residents were later offered the option, they chose to leave the city of Montreal, and the town was reinstated as a separate entity in 2006.\nName.\nThe orthography of the city's name has been adjusted periodically. Originally written as Dollard-des-Ormeaux, it became Dollard des Ormeaux (no hyphens) in 1960, and reverted again to the hyphenated spelling in 1969.\nIn 2001, the official Commission de toponymie du Qu\u00e9bec ruled that the correct orthography of the city's name is Dollard-Des Ormeaux (one hyphen, one space, all title caps) due to the patronymic particle. However, this was not widely accepted, and is rarely used in practice. In particular, , the city's own website did not use this way of writing the city's name. In 2022, the Commission officially reverted to the spelling Dollard-des-Ormeaux, which had been in use since 1924.\nHistory.\nEarly history.\nIn 1714, the area was part of the Parish of St-Joachim de Pointe-Claire. It became part of the Parish of Ste-Genevi\u00e8ve when it detached from Pointe-Claire in 1845.\nOn July 29, 1924, Dollard-des-Ormeaux detached from the Parish of Ste-Genevi\u00e8ve and became a separate municipality in response to a tax imposed by the Parish road improvements on Gouin Boulevard. Its first mayor was Hormidas Meloche.\nThe town's name honours the savior Adam Dollard des Ormeaux, who was killed by the Iroquois at the Battle of Long Sault in 1660.\nLater history.\nThe City of Dollard-des-Ormeaux obtained a new charter and was incorporated as a city on February 4, 1960.\nDollard-des-Ormeaux was originally a bedroom community in the early 1960s. The population was barely a few hundred in 1960, and within 10 years, exceeded 15,000.\nOne of its original main axes, Anselme-Lavigne Street in the Westpark neighbourhood, is named for a farmer who sold his land to the Belcourt Construction Company. Many of the streets in the Sunnydale neighbourhood, including \"Sunshine\" and \"Hyman\", are named for members in the prominent Zunenshine family who owned Belcourt. The community is a mixture of residential and commercial properties. Des Sources and St-Jean Boulevards are its main commercial arteries, and are represented by the two vertical lines in the city's official logo. The three circles in the logo, from left to right, respectively represent the St-Jean Sector, the Westpark Sector and the Sunnybrooke Sector. The three circles and two vertical lines in the logo represent the city's geography and artfully spell out \"ddo\".\nThe Town Hall was located in a house on Des Sources Boulevard in the early 1960s, and was moved to an 1806 French-Canadian farmhouse in 1964.\nWhen Canada's centennial anniversary was due to occur, the town decided to create a \"Centennial Park,\" featuring a man-made lake and hills. It was suggested to use this project for a reservoir for stormwater drainage, as the city was faced with the need to expand surface drainage pipes. The project was announced September 8, 1966. However the project ran into problems and became a local scandal and a major drain on resources. It was finally completed in the 1970s, albeit overdue and overbudget.\nDollard-des-Ormeaux was included in the Montreal Urban Community when that government was created in 1970.\nRecent years.\nOn January 1, 2002, as part of the 2002\u20132006 municipal reorganization of Montreal, it merged with the city of Montreal and became part of the Dollard-Des Ormeaux\u2013Roxboro borough. After a change of government and a 2004 demerger referendum, Dollard-des-Ormeaux was reconstituted as an independent city on January 1, 2006. It is now the Montreal Island's most populous city outside Montreal.\nAlbeit not served by the Montreal Metro, the city will be served by the R\u00e9seau express m\u00e9tropolitain light rail system with a station at the juncture of Highway 40 and Des Sources Boulevard.\nDemographics.\nAccording to the Office qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois de la langue fran\u00e7aise, Dollard-des-Ormeaux has been officially recognized as a bilingual municipality since 2 Nov 2005.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Dollard-Des Ormeaux had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nParks and facilities.\nDollard is known for its many well-attended green spaces, providing a park within one kilometre of each home. Notable parks include Centennial Park, Westminster Park, Frederick Wilson (Fredmir) Park, Edward Janiszewski Park (Baffin Park), and Terry Fox Park. Edward Janiszewski Park was named after the longest-reigning mayor of the city.\nDollard-des-Ormeaux is home to the Dollard Civic Centre, which serves as city hall, the public library, and houses ice skating and swimming facilities.\nSports.\nDollard is home to many juvenile sports teams, including hockey, soccer, baseball, swimming, and ringette. In 2013, the city received $20 000 from Kraft Le Hockey Continue program in recognition of the efforts of Lance Taylor Townend, an administrator and coach with the Dollard Hockey Association. The Montreal Barbarians rugby club have played at Westwood Park for nearly 50 years.\nAdministration.\nThe city administration\nSince the city's incorporation in 1960, there have been seven mayors. They are Alfred Labrosse (1960\u20131963), Frederick T. Wilson (1963\u20131968), Gerald Dephoure (1968\u20131978), Jean Cournoyer (1978\u20131982), Gerry Weiner (1982\u20131984), Edward Janiszewski (1984\u20132017) and Alex Bottausci (2017\u2013present).\nEdward Janiszewski's 33 years as Mayor of DDO makes him the longest-serving Mayor in the city's history, and the second longest-serving Mayor in the history of Canada, behind Hazel McCallion. He was first elected to the city council in 1978 before becoming mayor in 1984. During his tenure, he also oversaw the construction of Dollard-des-Ormeaux's famous library and many of the additions which were made to the civic centre. At the time of his defeat in 2017, the city was left with a surplus of $15 million.\nMunicipal Patrol.\nEstablished in 1980, a municipal patrol service was initially created to enhance public safety in the city and to enforce parking violations after the merger of police departments on the Island of Montreal. The service is responsible for public safety, municipal by-law enforcement, crime prevention, emergency measures, and community relations.\nList of mayors.\nList of mayors:\nEducation.\nThe Lester B. Pearson School Board operates four Anglophone public schools in the area. Schools operated by the LBPSB include Springdale Elementary School, Sunshine Academy, Westpark Elementary School, and Wilder Penfield Elementary School. Beechwood Elementary and Kingsdale Academy in Pierrefonds-Roxboro also serve portions of Dollard-des-Ormeaux.\nThe \"Centre de services scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeoys\" operates Francophone public schools, but were previously operated by the \"Commission scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeoys\" until June 15, 2020. The change was a result of a law passed by the Quebec government that changed the school board system from denominational to linguistic. Francophone public schools in the area includes \"\u00c9cole primaire Dollard-Des Ormeaux\", the \"\u00c9cole primaire du Bois-de-Liesse\", the \"\u00c9cole primaire Saint-Luc\", and the \"\u00c9cole secondaire des Sources\".\nPrivate schools include West Island College, Emmanuel Christian School, and Hebrew Foundation School."}
{"id": "731930", "revid": "41625025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731930", "title": "Terrebonne", "text": "Terrebonne or Terre Bonne () is a name of several places in North America:"}
{"id": "731934", "revid": "22041646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731934", "title": "Saint-Eustache", "text": "Saint-Eustache may refer to:"}
{"id": "731942", "revid": "226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731942", "title": "List of eponymous anatomical structures", "text": ""}
{"id": "731943", "revid": "49292273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731943", "title": "Aylmer, Quebec", "text": "Aylmer is a former city in Quebec, Canada. It is located on the north shore of the Ottawa River and along Route 148. The settlement that became Aylmer was founded in 1818 by Philemon Wright Junior.\nIn January 2002, it amalgamated into the city of Gatineau, which is part of Canada's National Capital Region. Aylmer's population in 2011 was 55,113.\nIt is named after Lord Aylmer, who was a governor general of British North America and a lieutenant governor of Lower Canada from 1830 to 1835.\nIt bills itself as the \"Recreation Capital of the National Capital\", given its many golf courses, green spaces, spas, marina, and bicycle paths. There is little industry in the sector, the area being mainly residential. Virtually all the major shops, services, and restaurants are located along Chemin d'Aylmer. The sector's indoor swimming pool and skateboard park are also located on that road.\nThe population of the Hull-Aylmer Federal electoral district, which combines the communities of Hull and Aylmer, was 105,419 in 2016. The 2016 census of Hull-Aylmer showed that the population was about 67% francophone, 18% anglophone, and 15% native speakers of other languages. Much of its workforce commutes across the river to Ottawa.\nHistory.\nPrior to its foundation, parts of Aylmer, like most surrounding areas of the Ottawa region, were often occupied as summer camps by the Algonquin First Nations population. The first European explorers known to reach the actual location of Aylmer were Nicolas-du-Vigneau and Samuel de Champlain during the early 17th century in their explorations west of Quebec City. It was only during the early 19th century that colonization began in the region; during the same period the foundations of the communities of Hull and Bytown were being established.\nIn 1800, the order of the day was to settle the land by granting the responsibility to groups of \"leaders and associates\" led and funded by an individual who would be granted large tracts of land for his efforts to create a settlement. Almost 40,000 acres of land in the Township of Hull were granted to Philemon Wright, an American ex-pat from Woburn, Massachusetts who was the pioneer and founder of the first permanent settlement of the Ottawa Valley. Many settlers arrived in the first years and as associates, were granted large 100 and 200 acre lots to farm just west of the new settlement, and a road soon stretched from Wright's Town, first to the Desch\u00eanes Landing by 1802, then in 1805 it was extended west to the \"Chaudi\u00e8re Lake Landing\" (now called Lake Desch\u00eanes). The road was improved and widened in 1818 and, with the addition of two toll booths, it became known as the \"Britannia Turnpike\". The village at its western extremity was known as Chaudi\u00e8re Lake Village, then more widely called Turnpike End.\nIn that same year of 1818, Philemon's oldest son, Philemon Junior, founded the village when he cleared 30 acres of the \"Chaudi\u00e8re Lake Farm\" (a supply farm for the timber industry) at Turnpike End, improved the \"Chaudi\u00e8re Lake Landing\", and built the \"Wright Hotel\", a tavern and two stores, laying down the infrastructure of the village. The landing at Turnpike End had become a busy stopping-off point so the hotel, tavern, and stores were built to accommodate all the travelers who journeyed to and from the Upper Ottawa River.\nIn November 1821, Philemon Junior died suddenly in a tragic coach accident. As a result, Philemon Sr. needed a new manager for the \"Chaudi\u00e8re Lake Farm\". His other sons were busy managing the family's timber business, so Philemon Sr. chose his nephew, Charles Symmes, to be the new manager. Charles, 23 years-old at the time, had been in his uncle's employ for two years. The hotel was made ready for his occupancy in 1822. In October 1823, the arrangement was made official and more equitable with Charles named manager of the Farm and the \"Wright Hotel\" with \"P. Wright &amp; Sons\" in a lease agreement. Charles would manage the farm and the hotel until a dispute arose between Charles and his uncle Philemon regarding the terms of their agreement. Charles tore up the contract and refused to repay his uncle the money that he owed him. The issue was settled in court, in the favour of Philemon Sr. Despite the court ruling, correspondence between uncle and nephew remained cordial for years.\nCharles left \"P. Wright &amp; Sons\" to pursue business on his own at Turnpike End, and had acquired a 200-acre lot and, so in 1830 he had his property surveyed and divided up into village lots for sale and to create a \"government village\" for a post office and jail, as per the Crown's directive. He also bought some of Harvey Parker's waterfront lot to build a new wharf. He then joined the \"Union Forwarding Company\", founded by John Egan, Ruggles Wright and Joseph Aumond, a company that ran the steamboat \"Lady Colborne\", the first to operate in that area.\nIn 1831, he built a large stone building that he named the \"Aylmer Hotel\", which soon after became known as the \"Symmes Inn\" (aka l'Auberge Symmes). With all of the improvements at the landing, locals would begin calling it the \"Symmes Landing\".\nThe post office and county registration office in Aylmer were opened in 1831; it was named after the Governor-General Lord Aylmer. The village was first incorporated in 1847 and served as administrative centre for the region until 1897. A courthouse and jail that served the Outaouais region were built in 1852. With the important shipbuilding yards on the banks of the Ottawa and its significant growth as one of the region's economic powerhouses of that time,\nThe Aylmer Boating Club was founded in 1890. The club was renamed the Aylmer Yacht Club in 1900. In 1901, Moses Chamberlain Edey designed the clubhouse. By 1906, the club was renamed the Victoria Yacht Club. In 1921, the Club burned down and was not rebuilt.\nDuring most of the 19th century, the town of Aylmer, like much of the Outaouais, was an important centre for the wood industry. During that period several steam boats were built alongside the Desch\u00eanes Rapids and the Ottawa River across from Britannia. Railroad construction began during the early Canadian Confederation years. Meanwhile, the economy of Aylmer was more focused on the wood and wood pulp industries and much later, on tourism. In 1921, a destructive fire ravaged large sections of the village destroying dozens of homes and businesses. During the Great Depression Aylmer's biggest sawmill closed its doors.\nAylmer would regain importance during the second half of the 20th century when, due to urban sprawling from the Ottawa and Gatineau areas, it became an important suburb to the region. In 1975 the villages of Lucerne and Desch\u00eanes, located just east of downtown Aylmer, were amalgamated. Several new residential developments were created on the northern and eastern side of old Aylmer. Numerous businesses and shopping malls were built along the Main Street including les Galeries Aylmer and the Glenwood Plaza, the latter being destroyed by a fire in 2005 and rebuilt. In addition, several golf courses, a Sheraton hotel, and a movie theatre were added through the city. On August 4, 1994, a destructive tornado tore through the city damaging nearly 400 to 500 homes (including a dozen homes that were completely destroyed) and injuring at least 15 people. Damage figures were estimated at $15 million. Rated F3 on the Fujita scale, the tornado tracked for 8 kilometers and was one of the most intense tornadoes in history across the National Capital Region. Aylmer also saw many power outages and very dangerous driving conditions throughout the North American ice storm of 1998, which left more than 4 million people without electricity, most of them in southern Quebec, western New Brunswick and Eastern Ontario, some of them for an entire month. The Canadian Forces were called in to assist with the relief efforts.\nBefore the amalgamation of the Urban Community Region of the Outaouais, Aylmer had a population exceeding 40,000 with additional growth after 2002 stemming from development in several areas of the sector, including the expansion of the Plateau de la Capitale neighbourhood which started in the former city of Hull in the early 1990s.\nIn recent years, efforts have been made to create the Boucher Forest protected area, in light of increasing suburban sprawl and housing development. The group that strives for protection of the Boucher Forest is the \"Fondation For\u00eat Boucher\", the Boucher Forest Foundation. The forest is a reservoir of biodiversity in the region; at-risk and endangered species such as \"Panax quinquefolium\" (American ginseng), and \"Juglans cinerea\" (butternut) exist in this threatened ecosystem. The forest is bound by Highway 148 to the south, Chemin Vanier to the east, the \"Jardins Lavigne\" neighbourhood to the west (one of Aylmer's newer suburban areas), and Chemin Pink to the north. Furthermore, an old mining quarry is directly adjacent to the forest's northwest corner.\nTransportation.\nRoads and recreational pathways.\nAylmer is served by provincial Route 148, known as the boulevard des Allumetti\u00e8res within the city of Gatineau, which extends from the Ontario border near Pembroke, to Montreal, about two hours away.\nOther main roads include the Chemin d'Aylmer/rue Principale and Lucerne Blvd (running east and west)., Vanier, Eardley, Broad/Klock, Wilfrid-Lavigne, Mountain Rd., Pink Rd.\nAylmer is connected to Tunney's Pasture and Westboro in Ottawa by the Champlain Bridge, at the southeast corner.\nIt has been proposed to build an extension from Autoroute 50 in Gatineau that would come though Chelsea and central Aylmer to connect to a new bridge between Desch\u00eanes and Britannia in the city of Ottawa, but it remains no more than a plan, mainly due to strong local opposition from Britannia residents.\nAylmer is home to an effective and generally well-maintained network of bicycle paths that encircle the central portion of the area and run past many scenic locations, such as the Aylmer Marina and the Desch\u00eanes Rapids. The bike path system is maintained by the National Capital Commission.\nPublic transit.\nPublic transit is provided by the Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 de transport de l'Outaouais, or STO for short, which runs twelve bus lines through the region (although many only operate during rush hour). The STO has been criticized by Aylmer residents\u2014particularly youth\u2014for not providing enough service to the area, and for not providing enough inter-sector bus lines (the western terminus for most Aylmer lines is in the Rideau Centre in downtown Ottawa). The STO is planning a bus rapid transit system known as Rapibus that would connect the Hull and Gatineau sectors, with the possibility of an expansion to Aylmer.\nThe railroad bedding still exists from Aylmer's now-defunct rail line, and pressure has been put on the STO to set up a light rail system in Gatineau that could connect to Ottawa's O-Train network via the Prince of Wales Bridge. If this were to happen, Aylmer could theoretically be served by light rail as well, but at present this appears highly unlikely.\nPolitics.\nFederal.\nIn terms of population, Aylmer makes up about one third of the riding of Hull\u2014Aylmer, which had elected a Liberal member of parliament in every federal election since its conception in 1984 \u2014 its predecessors, the ridings of Hull and Wright, in place from 1892 to 1984, also only ever elected Liberals. This, however, changed when the riding elected NDP MP Nycole Turmel to the House of Commons of Canada in the 2011 federal election. The Liberals returned to power in the riding with the election of Greg Fergus, Member of Parliament and the Right. Honourable Justin Trudeau.\nMunicipal.\nIn the 2005 Gatineau municipal election, Aylmer voters showed particularly strong support for incumbent mayor Marc Bureau, over incumbent and former mayor of \"old\" Hull Yves Ducharme. Similar voting patterns appeared in the sectors of Buckingham and Masson-Angers, the other two \"outlying\" regions of Gatineau. This could be due to a perception among residents that the Ducharme administration was more focused on the urban core of the new city, as opposed to the periphery, as well as the rapid development of green-spaces into residential subdivisions. However, six months after the November election, residents are showing the highest level of dissatisfaction with the Bureau administration out of all the sectors, citing Aylmer's being left out of municipal processes, poor quality of municipal services, and little to no action to halt suburban sprawl. Masson-Angers and Buckingham residents are presently showing the most support for the new government.\nThe City of Gatineau administration had plans to reuse a former landfill site on Cook Road in the north end of the sector to build a new composting plant. A deal was planned with a non-profit organisation called La Ressourcerie to operate the site. However, local residents are strongly opposed with health and environmental concerns especially due to the past of the landfill site. Despite displaying their fierce opposition, which included acts of intimidation and threats towards some councillors, at a Gatineau City Council Meeting, Mayor Marc Bureau mentioned that he will still build the plant at the Cook site, and that according to him it was the best possible site. He later added that he will study other possibilities for the plant.\nAylmer's four wards are presently represented on Gatineau City Council by Steven Boivin (Independent; Aylmer District), Gilles Chagnon (IND; Lucerne District), Caroline Murray (Action Gatineau; Desch\u00eanes District) and Anik Des Marais (Action Gatineau; Mitigomijokan District). \nAmalgamation and de-amalgamation.\nIn 2002, the City of Aylmer became a part of Gatineau when the then-Parti Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois government forcibly merged several clusters of cities and metropolitan areas throughout Qu\u00e9bec. Residents of Aylmer were particularly against the amalgamation, citing fears of reduced municipal services, more suburban development, and a loss of cultural identity, as well as geographic differences (Hull and Gatineau arguably constitute a region of conurbation, whereas Aylmer was at the time separated by an expanse of sparsely inhabited green space).\nA movement was started to halt the \"forced fusion\" of five cities surrounding Gatineau. The movement had particularly strong support in Aylmer. Signs reading \"Je me souviendrai des fusions forc\u00e9es\" (literally, \"I will remember forced fusions,\" a play on Quebec's motto \"Je me souviens\") were a common sight.\nWhen the Quebec Liberal Party won the 2003 provincial election, the newly amalgamated former cities were given the opportunity to demerge. A referendum was held to decide the fate of the City of Gatineau which required a double vote: at least 35% of eligible voters from a given sector had to cast ballots, and more than 50% of these had to be in favour of de-amalgamation. Aylmer voters chose to separate from Gatineau but not enough ballots were cast, meaning Aylmer remained a sector of the larger city.\nThe voting outcome itself was done in such a way that even if Aylmer succeeded in de-amalgamating from Gatineau, they would only do so in name. The de-amalgamation claimed that once Aylmer was its own area once again, it would have to pay for all its own changes, while Gatineau would still be in control of the administration. This meant that the sector of Aylmer would receive no support from the administration that determined what was built where, but would still have to contribute 100% to the costs of the changes voted by the city of Gatineau.\nPrior to the merger, Aylmer's residents and municipal laws had strongly opposed extensive construction programs. Following the amalgamation, many of the sector's prized green spaces were cut down for residential construction. Ex-Aylmer neighbourhoods like Wychwood and Village Lucerne have seen their undeveloped spaces sold to contractors.\nList of pre-amalgamation mayors.\nSources:\nList of mayors of Desch\u00eanes (1920-1974).\nSource:\nList of mayors of Lucerne (1879-1974).\nNote: From 1879 to November 1964, this area was known as South Hull.\nSources:\nEducation.\nEnglish school board.\nThe Western Qu\u00e9bec School Board provides English and French immersion education to primary and secondary students.\nFrench school board.\nThe Commission scolaire des portages de l'Outaouais provides French education to primary and secondary students.\nSecondary schools.\n\u00c9cole secondaire Grande-Rivi\u00e8re: a francophone high school, located on Broad street, this school teaches well over 2000 students, and supports an additional 100+ staff members, including teachers, administrators, janitors, and other service personnel. It is the largest secondary school in the sector. It sports a standard programme, a musical concentration programme, an artistic concentration programme, an IB Middle Years Programme, the International Programme (P.E.I), and several support programmes for students in difficult situations. It also has a small community of highly active students who participate in the organization of school activities.\nOther secondary schools are Symmes Junior High School (grades 7 and 8) and the recently constructed \u00c9cole secondaire D'Arcy McGee High School (grades 9, 10 and 11), both located on Blvd. du Plateau, this is because they are joined, making the school grades 7\u201311."}
{"id": "731945", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731945", "title": "Victory Gundam", "text": ""}
{"id": "731948", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731948", "title": "Plan position indicator", "text": "A plan position indicator (PPI) is a type of radar display that represents the radar antenna in the center of the display, with the distance from it and height above ground drawn as concentric circles. As the radar antenna rotates, a radial trace on the PPI sweeps in unison with it about the center point. It is the most common type of radar display.\nDescription.\nThe radar antenna sends pulses while rotating 360 degrees around the radar site at a fixed elevation angle. It can then change angle or repeat at the same angle according to the need. Return echoes from targets are received by the antenna and processed by the receiver and the most direct display of those data is the PPI.\nThe height of the echoes increases with the distance to the radar, as represented in the adjacent image. This change is not a straight line but a curve as the surface of the Earth is curved and \"sinks\" below the radar horizon. For fixed-site installations, north is usually represented at the top of the image. For moving installations, such as small ship and aircraft radars, the top may represent the bow or nose of the ship or aircraft, \"i.e.\", its heading (direction of travel) and this is usually represented by a lubber line. Some systems may incorporate the input from a gyrocompass to rotate the display and once again display north as \"up\".\nAlso, the signal represented is the reflectivity at only one elevation of the antenna, so it is possible to have many PPIs at one time, one for each antenna elevation.\nHistory.\nThe PPI display was first used prior to the start of the Second World War in a Jagdschloss experimental radar system outside Berlin. The first production PPI was devised at the Telecommunications Research Establishment, UK and was first introduced in the H2S radar blind-bombing system of World War II.\nOriginally, data was displayed in real time on a cathode-ray tube (CRT), and thus the only way to store the information received was by taking a photograph of the screen.\nPhilo Taylor Farnsworth, the American inventor of all-electronic television in September 1927, contributed to this in an important way. Farnsworth refined a version of his picture tube (CRT) and called it an \"Iatron;\" generically known as a storage tube. It could store an image for milliseconds to minutes and even hours. One version that kept an image alive about a second before fading proved to be useful for radar. This slow-to-fade display tube was used by air traffic controllers from the very beginning of radar usage.\nWith the development of more sophisticated radar systems, it became possible to digitize data and store it in memory, allowing access at a later date.\nUses.\nThe PPI is used in many domains involving display of range and positioning, especially in radars, including air traffic control, ship navigation, meteorology, on board ships and aircraft etc. PPI displays are also used to display sonar data, especially in underwater warfare.\nHowever, because the speed of sound in water is very slow compared to microwaves in air, a sonar PPI has an expanding circle that starts with each transmitted \"ping\" of sound. In meteorology, a competing display system is the CAPPI (Constant Altitude Plan Position Indicator) when a multi-angle scan is available.\nUsing computers to process data, modern sonar and lidar installations can mimic radar PPI displays too."}
{"id": "731954", "revid": "111703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731954", "title": "Mobile Suit V Gundam", "text": ""}
{"id": "731959", "revid": "51646632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731959", "title": "Heronian triangle", "text": "In geometry, a Heronian triangle (or Heron triangle) is a triangle whose side lengths , , and and area are all positive integers. Heronian triangles are named after Heron of Alexandria, based on their relation to Heron's formula which Heron demonstrated with the example triangle of sides and area .\nHeron's formula implies that the Heronian triangles are exactly the positive integer solutions of the Diophantine equation\nthat is, the side lengths and area of any Heronian triangle satisfy the equation, and any positive integer solution of the equation describes a Heronian triangle.\nIf the three side lengths are setwise coprime (meaning that the greatest common divisor of all three sides is 1), the Heronian triangle is called \"primitive\".\nTriangles whose side lengths and areas are all rational numbers (positive rational solutions of the above equation) are sometimes also called \"Heronian triangles\" or \"rational triangles\"; in this article, these more general triangles will be called \"rational Heronian triangles\". Every (integral) Heronian triangle is a rational Heronian triangle. Conversely, every rational Heronian triangle is geometrically similar to exactly one primitive Heronian triangle.\nIn any rational Heronian triangle, the three altitudes, the circumradius, the inradius and exradii, and the sines and cosines of the three angles are also all rational numbers.\nScaling to primitive triangles.\nScaling a triangle with a factor of consists of multiplying its side lengths by ; this multiplies the area by formula_2 and produces a similar triangle. Scaling a rational Heronian triangle by a rational factor produces another rational Heronian triangle.\nGiven a rational Heronian triangle of side lengths formula_3 the scale factor formula_4 produces a rational Heronian triangle such that its side lengths formula_5 are setwise coprime integers. It is proved below that the area is an integer, and thus the triangle is a Heronian triangle. Such a triangle is often called a \"primitive Heronian triangle.\"\nIn summary, every similarity class of rational Heronian triangles contains exactly one primitive Heronian triangle. A byproduct of the proof is that exactly one of the side lengths of a primitive Heronian triangle is an even integer.\n\"Proof:\" One has to prove that, if the side lengths formula_5 of a rational Heronian triangle are coprime integers, then the area is also an integer and exactly one of the side lengths is even.\nThe Diophantine equation given in the introduction shows immediately that formula_7 is an integer. Its square root formula_8 is also an integer, since the square root of an integer is either an integer or an irrational number.\nIf exactly one of the side lengths is even, all the factors in the right-hand side of the equation are even, and, by dividing the equation by , one gets that formula_9 and formula_10 are integers.\nAs the side lengths are supposed to be coprime, one is left with the case where one or three side lengths are odd. Supposing that is odd, the right-hand side of the Diophantine equation can be rewritten\nwith formula_12 and formula_13 even. As the square of an odd integer is congruent to formula_14 modulo , the right-hand side of the equation must be congruent to formula_15 modulo . It is thus impossible, that one has a solution of the Diophantine equation, since formula_7 must be the square of an integer, and the square of an integer is congruent to or modulo .\nExamples.\nAny Pythagorean triangle is a Heronian triangle. The side lengths of such a triangle are integers, by definition. In any such triangle, one of the two shorter sides has even length, so the area (the product of these two sides, divided by two) is also an integer.\nExamples of Heronian triangles that are not right-angled are the isosceles triangle obtained by joining a Pythagorean triangle and its mirror image along a side of the right angle. Starting with the Pythagorean triple this gives two Heronian triangles with side lengths and and area .\nMore generally, given two Pythagorean triples formula_17 and formula_18 with largest entries and , one can join the corresponding triangles along the sides of length (see the figure) for getting a Heronian triangle with side lengths formula_19 and area formula_20 (this is an integer, since the area of a Pythagorean triangle is an integer).\nThere are Heronian triangles that cannot be obtained by joining Pythagorean triangles. For example, the Heronian triangle of side lengths formula_21 and area 72, since none of its altitudes is an integer. Such Heronian triangles are known as . However, every Heronian triangle can be constructed from right triangles with rational side lengths, and is thus similar to a decomposable Heronian triangle. In fact, at least one of the altitudes of a triangle is inside the triangle, and divides it into two right triangles. These triangles have rational sides, since the cosine and the sine of the angles of a Heronian triangle are rational numbers, and, with notation of the figure, one has formula_22 and formula_23 where formula_24 is the left-most angle of the triangle.\nRationality properties.\nMany quantities related to a Heronian triangle are rational numbers. In particular:\nProperties of side lengths.\nHere are some properties of side lengths of Heronian triangles, whose side lengths are and area is .\nParametrizations.\nA parametric equation or \"parametrization\" of Heronian triangles consists of an expression of the side lengths and area of a triangle as functionstypically polynomial functionsof some parameters, such that the triangle is Heronian if and only if the parameters satisfy some constraintstypically, to be positive integers satisfying some inequalities. It is also generally required that all Heronian triangles can be obtained up to a scaling for some values of the parameters, and that these values are unique, if an order on the sides of the triangle is specified.\nThe first such parametrization was discovered by Brahmagupta (598-668 A.D.), who did not prove that all Heronian triangles can be generated by the parametrization. In the 18th century, Leonhard Euler provided another parametrization and proved that it generates all Heronian triangles. These parametrizations are described in the next two subsections.\nIn the third subsection, a rational parametrizationthat is a parametrization where the parameters are positive rational numbersis naturally derived from properties of Heronian triangles. Both Brahmagupta's and Euler's parametrizations can be recovered from this rational parametrization by clearing denominators. This provides a proof that Brahmagupta's and Euler's parametrizations generate all Heronian triangles.\nBrahmagupta's parametric equation.\nThe Indian mathematician Brahmagupta (598-668 A.D.) discovered the following parametric equations for generating Heronian triangles, but did not prove that every similarity class of Heronian triangles can be obtained this way.\nFor three positive integers , and that are setwise coprime (formula_30) and satisfy formula_31 (to guarantee positive side lengths) and (for uniqueness):\nwhere is the semiperimeter, is the area, and is the inradius.\nThe resulting Heronian triangle is not always primitive, and a scaling may be needed for getting the corresponding primitive triangle. For example, taking , and produces a triangle with , and , which is similar to the Heronian triangle with a proportionality factor of .\nThe fact that the generated triangle is not primitive is an obstacle for using this parametrization for generating all Heronian triangles with size lengths less than a given bound, since the size of formula_33 cannot be predicted.\nEuler's parametric equation.\nThe following method of generating all Heronian triangles was discovered by Leonhard Euler, who was the first to provably parametrize all such triangles.\nFor four positive integers coprime to and coprime to satisfying formula_34 (to guarantee positive side lengths):\nwhere is the semiperimeter, is the area, and is the inradius.\nEven when , , , and are pairwise coprime, the resulting Heronian triangle may not be primitive. In particular, if , , , and are all odd, the three side lengths are even. It is also possible that , , and have a common divisor other than . For example, with , , , and , one gets , where each side length is a multiple of ; the corresponding primitive triple is , which can also be obtained by dividing the triple resulting from by two, then exchanging and .\nHalf-angle tangent parametrization.\nLet formula_36 be the side lengths of any triangle, let formula_37 be the interior angles opposite these sides, and let formula_38 formula_39 and formula_40 be the half-angle tangents. The values formula_41 are all positive and satisfy formula_42; this \"triple tangent identity\" is the half-angle tangent version of the fundamental triangle identity written as formula_43 radians (that is, 90\u00b0), as can be proved using the addition formula for tangents. By the laws of sines and cosines, all of the sines and the cosines of formula_37 are rational numbers if the triangle is a rational Heronian triangle and, because a half-angle tangent is a rational function of the sine and cosine, it follows that the half-angle tangents are also rational.\nConversely, if formula_41 are positive rational numbers such that formula_46 it can be seen that they are the half-angle tangents of the interior angles of a class of similar Heronian triangles. The condition formula_42 can be rearranged to formula_48 and the restriction formula_49 requires formula_50 Thus there is a bijection between the similarity classes of rational Heronian triangles and the pairs of positive rational numbers formula_51 whose product is less than .\nTo make this bijection explicit, one can choose, as a specific member of the similarity class, the triangle inscribed in a unit-diameter circle with side lengths equal to the sines of the opposite angles:\nwhere formula_53 is the semiperimeter, formula_54 is the area, formula_55 is the inradius, and all these values are rational because formula_56 and formula_57 are rational.\nTo obtain an (integral) Heronian triangle, the denominators of , , and must be cleared. There are several ways to do this. If formula_58 and formula_59 with formula_60 (irreducible fractions), and the triangle is scaled up by formula_61 the result is Euler's parametrization. If formula_62 and formula_63 with formula_64 (lowest common denominator), and the triangle is scaled up by formula_65 the result is similar but not quite identical to Brahmagupta's parametrization. If, instead, this is formula_66 and formula_67 that are reduced to the lowest common denominator, that is, if formula_68 and formula_69 with formula_70 then one gets exactly Brahmagupta's parametrization by scaling up the triangle by formula_71\nThis proves that either parametrization generates all Heronian triangles.\nThe values of , and that give the set of triangles that are geometrically similar to the triangle with side lengths , , and , semiperimeter , and area are\nformula_72\nOther results.\n has derived fast algorithms for generating Heronian triangles.\nThere are infinitely many primitive and indecomposable non-Pythagorean Heronian triangles with integer values for the inradius formula_73 and all three of the exradii formula_74, including the ones generated by\nThere are infinitely many Heronian triangles that can be placed on a lattice such that not only are the vertices at lattice points, as holds for all Heronian triangles, but additionally the centers of the incircle and excircles are at lattice points.\nSee also for parametrizations of some types of Heronian triangles.\nExamples.\nThe list of primitive integer Heronian triangles, sorted by area and, if this is the same,\nby perimeter, starts as in the following table.\n\"Primitive\" means that \nthe greatest common divisor of the three side lengths equals 1.\nThe list of primitive Heronian triangles whose sides do not exceed 600,000 has been computed by .\nHeronian triangles with perfect square sides.\nAs of February 2021, only two \"primitive\" Heronian triangles with perfect square sides are known:\n(1853, 4380, 4427, Area=), published in 2013.\n(11789, 68104, 68595, Area=), published in 2018.\nHeronian triangles with perfect square sides are connected to the Perfect cuboid problem. The existence of a solution to the Perfect cuboid problem is equivalent to the existence of a solution to the Perfect square triangle problem: \"Does there exist a triangle whose side lengths are perfect squares and whose angle bisectors are integers?\".\nEquable triangles.\nA shape is called equable if its area equals its perimeter. There are exactly five equable Heronian triangles: the ones with side lengths (5,12,13), (6,8,10), (6,25,29), (7,15,20), and (9,10,17), though only four of them are primitive.\nAlmost-equilateral Heronian triangles.\nSince the area of an equilateral triangle with rational sides is an irrational number, no equilateral triangle is Heronian. However, a sequence of isosceles Heronian triangles that are \"almost equilateral\" can be developed from the duplication of right-angled triangles, in which the hypotenuse is almost twice as long as one of the legs. The first few examples of these almost-equilateral triangles are listed in the following table :\nThere is a unique sequence of Heronian triangles that are \"almost equilateral\" because the three sides are of the form , , . A method for generating all solutions to this problem based on continued fractions was described in 1864 by Edward Sang, and in 1880 Reinhold Hoppe gave a closed-form expression for the solutions. The first few examples of these almost-equilateral triangles are listed in the following table :\nSubsequent values of can be found by multiplying the previous value by 4, then subtracting the value prior to that one (, , etc.), thus:\nwhere denotes any row in the table. This is a Lucas sequence. Alternatively, the formula formula_77 generates all for positive integers . Equivalently, let and , then,\nwhere are solutions to . A small transformation yields a conventional Pell equation , the solutions of which can then be derived from the regular continued fraction expansion for .\nThe variable is of the form formula_79, where is 7, 97, 1351, 18817, ... The numbers in this sequence have the property that consecutive integers have integral standard deviation."}
{"id": "731962", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731962", "title": "Foundation for the Study of Cycles", "text": "The Foundation for the Study of Cycles (FSC) is an international nonprofit organization that fosters, promotes, and conducts scientific research in respect to rhythmic and periodic fluctuations in any branch of science. It was incorporated on January 10, 1941 by Edward R. Dewey. It is currently under the directorship of Dr. Richard Smith. FSC published the \"Cycles Magazine\" from 1950 until 1997. In 2020, FSC relaunched the magazine as a quarterly publication. All FSC members are provided access to \"Cycles App\", which according to the foundation, is \"a tool that can decode cycles and apply cyclic analysis to detect dominant cycles in any dataset.\"\nThe FSC has been backed over the years by notable investors, like W. Clement Stone, Fidelity Investments, Coleman Co., and Paul Tudor Jones."}
{"id": "731963", "revid": "44024615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731963", "title": "2004 European Parliament election in Austria", "text": "An election was held on 13 June 2004 to elect MEPs representing the Austria constituency for the 2004\u20132009 term of the European Parliament. It was part of the wider 2004 European election.\nThe parties of the left, the Austrian Social Democratic Party and the Greens, improved their share of the vote. The ruling conservative party, the Austrian People's Party, also improved its share, but this was at the expense of its coalition partner, the Austrian Freedom Party, whose vote dropped sharply. The anti-corruption campaigner Hans-Peter Martin polled strongly and his list won two seats."}
{"id": "731966", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731966", "title": "Orders of Magnitude", "text": ""}
{"id": "731969", "revid": "32579849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731969", "title": "L'oreal", "text": ""}
{"id": "731970", "revid": "10202399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731970", "title": "Sorel-Tracy", "text": "Sorel-Tracy (; ) is a city in southwestern Quebec, Canada and the geographical end point of the Champlain Valley. It is located at the confluence of the Richelieu River and the St. Lawrence River, on the western edge of Lac Saint-Pierre, downstream and northeast of Montreal. The population as of the Canada 2021 Census was 35,165. Its mayor is Patrick P\u00e9loquin and it is the seat of the Pierre-De Saurel Regional County Municipality and the judicial district of Richelieu.\nThe city is the result of a voluntary merger in March 2000 between two former municipalities, Sorel and Tracy, which developed on opposite shores of the Richelieu River: Tracy on the west shore and Sorel on the east shore. Sorel itself had annexed in 1992 the municipality of Saint-Pierre-de-Sorel; today it forms the southern part of its territory.\nSorel was founded in 1642. Tracy was founded on February 10, 1954, but prior to that, it was a parish municipality known as Saint-Joseph de Sorel. (This is not to be confused with the town of Saint-Joseph-de-Sorel, an independent municipality north of Tracy).\nSorel-Tracy is known for manufacturing related to the steel industry and metallurgy. It has a ferry linking the city to the village of Saint-Ignace-de-Loyola. Its shipyard built units of three frigates for the Canadian forces, and two ships in the late 1960s.\nHistory.\nEarly exploration in this area by the French was a catalyst for armed conflict with various indigenous peoples. The French also learned about existing rivalries among these nations and sought to build its own alliances with First Nations. The Battle of Sorel occurred on June 19, 1610: Samuel de Champlain had some French regulars or local militia, as well as First Nations allies, the Wyandot (also known as Huron by the French), Algonquin and Innu peoples. Together they held off the powerful Mohawk people in New France.\nSorel is the fourth-oldest city in the province of Quebec. Its formation began in 1642 when Charles Huault de Montmagny, first Governor and Lieutenant-Governor of New France, built Fort Richelieu here as a defense for settlers and river travellers against the Iroquois, primarily the Mohawk, the powerful easternmost nation in the Confederacy based south of the Great Lakes.\nIn 1647, the original fort was destroyed by the Mohawk, but it was rebuilt by the Carignan-Sali\u00e8res Regiment on the same site in 1665.\nThe name Sorel comes from the first seigneur of the area, Pierre de Saurel. He was in command of a company of the Carignan-Sali\u00e8res Regiment that landed in New France in August 1665. He was granted a seigneury by King Louis XIV in 1672, after having already built a manor house four years prior. The parish of Tracy was named for Lieutenant General Alexander de Prouville, Sieur de Tracy, who was overall in command of the Carignan-Sali\u00e8res Regiment directly under the Governor.\nAfter Prince William Henry, Duke of Gloucester visited Sorel in 1787, the town took the name of William-Henry, a name it retained until 1845.\nIt is probable that before the American Revolution, there were no English-speaking, Protestant people in Sorel, as it had been settled by French-speaking colonists and their descendants, who were primarily Catholic. Although a hamlet or small village, it was the scene of much activity during the war and after.\nDuring 1776 large bodies of troops passed through and at times were stationed in the area. For example, the English quartered in Sorel the German auxiliaries they hired after they reached Quebec. Governor Frederick Haldimand wrote a letter to Lord George Germain in October 1778, from his camp in Sorel where fortifications were in progress, proposing his use of the Seigneurie,\nIt is my intention therefore, if time and circumstances favour me, to make Sorel a place of strength with Permanent Works, as the importance of it deserves. The Seigneurie of this Place is vested in merchants residing in England and the Inhabitants of it, people remarkable for their courage and resolution, have distinguished themselves very much by their attachment to the Government even at a time the Rebels were Masters of that Country, in which account I think it would serve the King's interest to bestow some Public mark of favour upon them such as remitting them the Quitrents which they pay for their land, to the Seigneur, and the Seigneurie being to be sold, and the purchase would not exceed 13,000, having been offered for that sum, I submit to Your Lordship whether it would not be best to give orders to treat immediately with the Proprietors, Messrs. Greenwood and Higgins in London, both for enabling me to effect the purchase...\nThe Crown purchased the land in 1781, at the end of the war, and Sorel became a clearing house for the steady stream of Loyalist refugees from the south. A number settled in Sorel, forming the nucleus of the English-speaking population. Also, the Crown selected Sorel as one of the stations for \"Military Invalids\", or \u201cOutside Chelsea Pensioners\", as they were also called. Several hundred older veterans and their dependents were sent to Sorel under the medical care of Dr. Christopher Carter. There facilities had to be built for them.\nThe earliest British efforts for the propagation of the Protestant religion in Lower Canada started in Sorel. With the continued influx of Loyalists during 1783 into the Seigniory (as the English spell it), the settlement sought a permanent Protestant minister. That year they sent a petition to the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, of the Anglican Church, begging them to send a Minister of the Gospel to reside in the Seigniory.\nThe Reverend John Doty was assigned to the post, embarking during the month of April 1784 at Gravesend, England, and arriving at Quebec in June. He reached Sorel on 4 July 1784, where he celebrated Divine Service (or communion) and preached his first sermon. This is the date of the foundation of the Anglican parish in Sorel and the first Anglican mission in Canada.\nThey used as the chapel a wooden building located at the end of King Street, a few steps from the Richelieu market. This building had earlier served as a military storehouse. In 1819, the town's parsonage was declared dangerously unfit.\nAt the beginning of the 19th century, Sorel was a centre of fur traders, who had been established in Quebec and among the indigenous peoples from the earliest years of the colony. The character of the town changed over the next few decades as more permanent settlers arrived.\nIn the 1820s, Sorel was the site of the governor's house for the Governor General of Lower Canada, then George Ramsay, the Lord Dalhousie. (He is the namesake of Dalhousie University.) Ramsay quickly purchased land in the area to be developed for agriculture. Due to his presence, the small town became a centre for the turbulent politics of that time, in the period leading up to the Lower Canada Rebellion.\nLocally, the colonial governor and parish priest Jean-Baptiste Kelly competed for power and influence among the different ethnic groups. Kelly oversaw a number of improvements and changes during his years in the town. The \"dangerous\" parsonage was rebuilt by 1832 (using stone from the original). The town changed its name back to Sorel from William-Henry in 1845, reflecting its demographics and predominately French Catholic population.\nKelly helped improve the parish library, which contained four hundred volumes by 1846. In 1848 the community erected a monument to temperance. They established a society for the care of the poor and sick, and for the education of girls. Kelly retired in 1849, after the completion of a new clergy house. The older one was adapted for use as a college. In the long term, the town continued to be settled primarily by French Canadians, rather than developing any sizable Anglo-Canadian population.\nIn 1839 two residents were defendants in a murder trial. An American, George Holmes, who lived in Sorel, was linked to Jos\u00e9phine d\u2019Estimauville, a married woman who had been staying with her mother in Sorel after leaving her abusive husband. The pair were arrested after Holmes became a suspect for killing her husband Louis-Pascal-Achille Tach\u00e9 (21 June 1813 \u2013 31 January 1839), seigneur of Kamouraska since 1833. This seigneury was located in the Bas-Saint-Laurent region of eastern Quebec. Holmes fled to the United States, escaped extradition, and disappeared. D\u2019Estimauville was tried for complicity in the death of her husband, but acquitted.\nIn 1970, Anne H\u00e9bert published a novel, \"Kamouraska\", inspired by the affair. It was adapted as a 1973 film of the same name, directed by Claude Jutra and starring Genevi\u00e8ve Bujold and Richard Jordan.\nThe shipyards in Sorel were long important to its economy. In the late 20th century, the city was the site of construction of three of 12 s of the Canadian Forces. The three Canadian patrol frigates built in Quebec were , and . The shipyard in Sorel-Tracy was called M.I.L. Tracy. It built units for all three vessels and sent them by barge for final assembly at M.I.L. Davie in Lauzon, Quebec.\nPrevious to the construction of the \"Halifax\"-class frigates, MIL (Marine Industries Ltd, operated by the Simard family of Sorel, constructed , which was commissioned there in 1964. MIL was also the site of construction of , an experimental hydrofoil commissioned by the Royal Canadian Navy. The construction of both these ships was overseen by Cmdr. Donald Clark CD RCN.\nEconomy.\nThe city is home to the Tracy Thermal Generating Station.\nThe city is home to a shipyard, which built several Royal Canadian Navy ships in the 20th century.\nThe city is home to QIT-Fer et Titane, a titanium smelter and refinery now owned by the Rio Tinto.\nTransportation.\nSorel-Tracy is within of both Montreal and Trois-Rivi\u00e8res and is easily accessible via Autoroute 30 from the west and via Route 132 from the east and west. Autoroute 30 stops at Sorel and picks up again at B\u00e9cancour, leaving an incomplete segment in between.\nA year-round ferry operates on the St. Lawrence River between Sorel-Tracy and Saint-Ignace-de-Loyola on the way to Berthierville.\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Sorel-Tracy had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nFrench Canadians make up more than 90% of the city's population. Less than 7% of the population is foreign-born or second generation immigrants. Anglo-Canadians make up less than 2% of Sorel-Tracy's inhabitants.\nPopulation trend:\nMother tongue language (2021)\nSports.\nThe city is home to the historic Colis\u00e9e Cardin, an ice hockey arena built in 1954. The Sorel \u00c9perviers played there from 1969\u201377 and 1980\u201381. They advanced to the league final in 1974, losing the President's Cup (QMJHL) to the Quebec Remparts. Since the foundation of the LNAH (formerly QSPHL) in 1996, Sorel-Tracy has hosted a team for all but two seasons, 2008\u20132010. The team was known variously as Dinosaures, Mission, Royaux, GCI and HC Caverna before taking the name Sorel-Tracy \u00c9perviers in 2012."}
{"id": "731976", "revid": "16796352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731976", "title": "Simon Dedalus", "text": ""}
{"id": "731977", "revid": "44329041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731977", "title": "2004 European Parliament election in Poland", "text": "Elections to the European Parliament were held in Poland on 13 June 2004 as part of the wider 2004 European Parliament election. They were the first European Parliament elections held in Poland after the country's accession to the European Union in May 2004. Poland was allotted 54 members of the European Parliament. 20.87% of eligible citizens voted; of these, 97.33% of the votes cast were valid. The elections resulted in a heavy defeat for the governing Alliance of the Democratic Left and Labor Union parties, although the very low turnout makes a direct comparison with national election results difficult. As expected the most successful party was the Civic Platform. Second place was taken by the strongly anti-EU League of Polish Families.\nThe radical populist Self-Defence of the Republic of Poland, which some opinion polls had predicted would come second, came fourth after the Law and Justice party. The election results were a success for Social Democracy of Poland, which managed to cross the required 5% threshold, and the Freedom Union, which got over twice the expected percentage of votes."}
{"id": "731978", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731978", "title": "Insead", "text": ""}
{"id": "731980", "revid": "477460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731980", "title": "Rave culture", "text": ""}
{"id": "731981", "revid": "2108405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731981", "title": "C\u00f4te Saint-Luc", "text": "C\u00f4te Saint-Luc () is a city on the Island of Montreal in Quebec, Canada. It is a mostly residential suburb of Montreal, within which it forms an enclave. The city is primarily English-speaking, with a large Jewish community.\nGeography.\nC\u00f4te Saint-Luc, along with Hampstead and Montreal West, forms an enclave within the City of Montreal. C\u00f4te Saint-Luc itself contains two distinct exclaves that are nestled between Hampstead and Montreal. The larger of the two contains a residential development north of Hampstead and the Decarie Square Mall, while the smaller one consists of fifteen residential buildings along Macdonald Avenue.\nAbout a third of C\u00f4te Saint-Luc's territory is occupied by the Canadian Pacific rail yards.\nClimate.\nC\u00f4te Saint-Luc has a humid continental climate (K\u00f6ppen: \"Dfa\").\nHistory.\nThe area encompassing C\u00f4te Saint-Luc was first settled in the 18th century, and was incorporated as a village in 1903. Its name may commemorate the 18th-century military officer Luc de la Corne Saint-Luc.\nThroughout the 1920s, the town grew quickly and accepted many immigrant populations leaving Montreal, notably German-Jewish and British families. Railway development and industrial activities were relocated to the north. An example of this is an old farmhouse, near the intersection of Westminster and C\u00f4te Saint-Luc, which today is a strip mall.\nStill, C\u00f4te Saint-Luc remained a small agricultural community until the mid-20th century. The population grew from 747 residents to over 20,000 between 1940 and the mid-1960s, due to substantial immigration following World War II. It was officially incorporated as a town in 1951, and as a city in 1958.\nC\u00f4te Saint-Luc was forcibly merged with the city of Montreal on January 1, 2002. It was amalgamated with its neighbouring suburbs of Hampstead and Montreal West to form the borough of C\u00f4te-Saint-Luc\u2014Hampstead\u2014Montr\u00e9al-Ouest. In a referendum held on June 20, 2004, C\u00f4te Saint-Luc residents voted to demerge; C\u00f4te Saint-Luc was re-established as a separate city on January 1, 2006.\nDemographics.\nAccording to the Office qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois de la langue fran\u00e7aise, C\u00f4te Saint-Luc has been officially recognized as a bilingual municipality since 2005.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, C\u00f4te Saint-Luc had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nOutside Israel, C\u00f4te-Saint-Luc contains the world's seventh largest Jewish community as a percentage of total population, with 69.1% of the population being Jewish.\nLocal government.\nMayors.\nThe former mayors of C\u00f4te Saint-Luc are as follows:\nPublic services and education.\nC\u00f4te Saint-Luc operates a full-time Public Security Department that enforces municipal by-laws, and in 2006 launched the Volunteer Citizens on Patrol () program that allows residents to help deter crime. C\u00f4te Saint-Luc also runs the only volunteer EMS first responder system on the island of Montreal, which responds to more than 3,000 calls early. Advanced care and transportation to local hospitals is provided by Urgences-sant\u00e9. In 2008\u20132009, the Montreal Fire Department implemented an island-wide first responder system set to replace the C\u00f4te Saint-Luc EMS; however, the city fought to keep their system and private member's bill was passed in the National Assembly of Quebec to exclude C\u00f4te Saint-Luc from the Montreal Fire Department.\nThe city's Eleanor London C\u00f4te Saint-Luc Public Library was named in honour of Eleanor London, who served as the city's chief librarian for 36 years. The Eleanor London C\u00f4te Saint-Luc Library is one of few libraries in North America that is open every day of the year.\nThe Cavendish Mall was once the city's central hub, housing stores like Steinberg's, Eaton's and Discus. In recent years, part of the mall has been replaced with single family homes, townhouses and apartment buildings.\nThe Commission scolaire Marguerite-Bourgeoys (CSMB) operates two Francophone primary schools in C\u00f4te Saint-Luc: \u00c9cole de la Mosa\u00efque and \u00c9cole des Amis-du-Monde. The English Montreal School Board operates a French immersion school, Merton School, John Grant and Mountainview High Schools, and the Marymount Adult Centre. There are a number of private schools in the city, including JPPS\u2013Bialik, Hebrew Academy, \u00c9cole Ma\u00efmonide and Yeshiva Yavne.\nNotable people.\nFormer residents of C\u00f4te Saint-Luc include politician and lawyer Irwin Cotler, actor William Shatner, and poet Irving Layton. Other residents included Montreal Expos all-star catcher Gary Carter. Comedy screenwriter Ricky Blitt and older brother Barry Blitt, a magazine illustrator, were raised there. Author Gordon Korman grew up in C\u00f4te Saint-Luc, as did popular science author and cognitive psychologist Steven Pinker."}
{"id": "731983", "revid": "20957809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731983", "title": "President William McKinley High School", "text": "President William McKinley High School, more commonly referred to as McKinley High School, is a comprehensive public high school in the Honolulu District of the Hawaii State Department of Education. It serves grades nine through twelve. McKinley is one of three schools in the Kaimuki-McKinley-Roosevelt Complex Area which includes Kaimuki High School and Roosevelt High School. It was founded as Fort Street English Day School in 1865. Later known as Honolulu High School, it was renamed in memorial to William McKinley, the twenty-fifth President of the United States, in 1907. President William McKinley High School is one of the oldest secondary schools in the state and several of its buildings have been listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The campus displays sculptures by Satoru Abe (1926\u20132025) and Bumpei Akaji (1921\u20132002). McKinley High School is accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges.\nHistory.\nThe high school was established in 1865 as the \"Fort Street English Day School and\" was founded by Maurice B. Beckwith. In November 1869, it was moved to Ke\u014dua Hale, the former palace of Princess Ruth Ke\u02bbelik\u014dlani. In 1895, it was renamed to \"Honolulu High School\". In 1907, it was moved to the corner of Beretania and Victoria Streets and renamed \"President William McKinley High School.\" It finally moved to its present campus on King Street in 1923.\nOn June 5, 1938, the school gave diplomas to 1,288 students, the largest number of diplomas in the history of the school.\nCrosswalk incident.\nIn February 2023, McKinley High School junior Sara Yara was killed in a hit and run after a driver ran her over on a crosswalk near the school. The driver was charged with negligent homicide, amongst other charges. As a result of the incident, speed bumps, raised crosswalks, and red light cameras were added around the school's vicinity.\nAcademics.\nAs of the 2023-2024 school year, the school is ranked #13 in Hawaii and #4,394 in national on the US News and World Report. The school had a 44.4% advanced placement participation rate, with 20% passing the exam.\nGraduation requirements.\nAs of the 2023-2024 school year, the school requires six credits in Electives, four credits in English, four credits in Social Studies, three credits in Mathematics, three credits in Science, two credits in either Fine Arts, World Languages, or Career Technical Education/JROTC, one credit in Physical Education, a half credit in Health, and a half credit for the Personal Transition Plan (PTP), for a total of 24 credits.\nAcademy structure.\nThe school utilizes a career academy structure, which places freshmen students into a single housed academy and allows them to choose a career academy for their sophomore through senior year. The career academies are the Academy of Health Sciences, the McKinley Business Academy, the Tiger Media Learning Center Academy, and the McKinley STEM Academy. The school also offers a Global Academy, which allows students to take electives that are not a part of an academy.\nStudent demographics.\nSchool Year 2010-2011\nRacial composition:\nFaculty.\nSchool Year 2001-2002\nSchool Year 2010-2011\nComplex area information.\nMcKinley High School is part of the Hawaii Department of Education Kaimuki-McKinley-Roosevelt Complex Area along with Kaimuki High School and Roosevelt High School.\nMcKinley Complex.\nThe McKinley Complex consists of 11 elementary, middle, and public charter schools including McKinley.\nFeeder Middle Schools.\nMcKinley High School feeds primarily from 4 middle schools in the Honolulu area.\nExtracurricular activities.\nClubs.\nThe school offers a variety of clubs. Notable clubs based on organizations include CyberPatriot, DECA, National FFA Organization, and HOSA. Notable service clubs include Key Club and Leo Club.\nAthletics.\nMcKinley competes in the Oahu Interscholastic Association. As of the 2024-2025 school year, McKinley has 56 teams competing in 19 sports. These sports include cheerleading, cross country running, football, volleyball, soft tennis, bowling, air riflery, softball, basketball, soccer, swimming, golf, wrestling, canoe paddling, baseball, tennis, judo, boys volleyball, track and field, water polo, and flag football.\nMcKinley has fielded girls teams in basketball, volleyball, and swimming as early as in the 1910s. Some years even fielded girls baseball team before softball became recognized as its own sport. The yearbooks of those early years noted games often against St. Andrew's Priory, YWCA, Palama, Normal School (later merged with University of Hawai\u02bbi's College of Education), and even College of Hawaii (now known as University of Hawai\u02bbi). McKinley was a founding member of the Interscholastic League of Honolulu in 1909 alongside Punahou and Kamehameha. In 1970, McKinley left the ILH with four other Honolulu area public schools to join the Oahu Interscholastic Association.\nThe 1933 football team traveled across the Pacific Ocean and went on to defeat Weber College (now known as Weber State University), Brigham Young University freshmen team, and Ricks College (now known as Brigham Young University\u2013Idaho). Ricks College traveled to Honolulu the following year. McKinley won again by the score of 24\u20136 in a game attended by about 19,000 fans.\nFootball.\nThe McKinley Tigers varsity football team competes in the Oahu Interscholastic Association Red-East division. Joseph Cho has served as the team's head coach since 2010.\nFor the 2010 and 2011 seasons, McKinley's Tiger football team competed in the Oahu Interscholastic Association White Division (Division II) along with seven other Oahu public schools including rival Kaimuki High School. In 2012, the football team was promoted to the OIA Red-East Division (Division I) where it currently competes with six other Oahu public schools. The Tigers' homefield is currently the 3000 seat Ticky Vasconcellos Stadium on the Roosevelt High School campus.\nIn September 2012, the McKinley football team traveled to Corvallis, Oregon to play the OSAA 4A champions La Salle High School Falcons on the campus of Crescent Valley High School. McKinley won 43\u201322.\nMcKinley Athletic Complex.\nIn September 2008, it was announced that McKinley was planning to upgrade its aging athletic facilities. Expected to cost more than $121 million, the upgrade has 14 elements including a 1,200 stall parking lot, construction of a second gym, renovation of the current gym, construction of a girls softball stadium, construction of a baseball stadium, construction of a 50-meter swimming pool, and construction of a 10,000 seat football stadium.\nIn 2011, ground was broken on the softball stadium. When completed, the softball stadium will be designated as the OIA softball championship field.\nNoted alumni.\nListed alphabetically by last name (year of graduation):\nArchitecture gallery.\nThe architect most involved in the early layout of the King Street campus and design of its Spanish Colonial Revival buildings was Louis E. Davis. The original quadrangle was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\nIn popular culture.\nSeveral characters of the ninth part of \"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure\", \"The JoJoLands\" attend the school, including the main protagonist, Jodio Joestar."}
{"id": "731985", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731985", "title": "Luis Munoz Rivera", "text": ""}
{"id": "731988", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731988", "title": "Shimosa Province", "text": ""}
{"id": "731990", "revid": "45957157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731990", "title": "Atlatlahucan", "text": "Atlatlahucan (from the Nahuatl word ) is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos. The name means \"Place of red or brown water\", and today the water is stored in a type of cistern called a \"jag\u00fcey\". To the north is the State of Mexico, south is Cuautla, east is Yecapixtla, and west are Tlayacapan and Yautepec. It stands at ,\nat a mean height of 1,656 metres (5,433 ft.) above sea level. The municipality covers 71 km2 (27.4 square miles).\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The municipality reported 22,079 inhabitants in the 2015 census. The population of the municipality of Atlatlahucan was 25,232 and the city of Atlatlahucan was 9,018 in 2020.\nHistory.\nThe Xochimilcas extended their conquest to Totolapan and Atlatlahucan in 1436. Moctezuma Ilhuicamina expanded his conquests in the Morelos valley include to Atlatlahucan, which was forced to pay tribute to the Aztec sovereign.\nAfter the Spanish conquest, the town ignored its annexation to the \"Marquisate of the Valley of Oaxaca\". In 1533, Augustinian friars \"Jer\u00f3nimo de San Esteban\" and \"Jorge de \u00c1vila\" arrived. They built a parish church that was secularized in 1548. A monastery was founded in 1570, although the actual date may be a bit later because the town was still subject to Totolapan at that time.\nAtlatlahucan was an assistant municipality of Tlayacapan, but on December 25, 1932, it became a municipality in its own right. \"Ignacio Bello\" was chosen as the first municipal president.\nOn August 24, 1964, the town was the site of an explosion that killed 37 people and injured 40 others, after a stockpile of fireworks went off prematurely while stored next to two tanks of butane. \n\"Calixto Urbano Lagunas\" of Juntos Haremos Historia (Together we will make history coalition) was elected \"Presidente Municipal\" (municipal president) in the election of July 1, 2018.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020; five cases were reported in Atlatahucan. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. The state office of DIF sent food and water to vulnerable groups of people in eight municipalities including Atlatlahucan on May 26. On June 2, Atlatlahucan reported twelve confirmed cases and two deaths; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Atlatahucan reported 33 cases, 25 recuperations, and five deaths as of August 31. Sixty-one cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nTourist Attractions.\nEx-Convento de San Mateo Ap\u00f3stol.\nThe monastery of San Mateo Atlatahucan was founded by Fray Jorge de Avila of the order of the Augustinians (1570?), who also founded the temples and of Tlayacapan, Ocuituco, Yecapixtla, and Totolapan. All these monasteries are part of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites. \nThe complex is rectangular. There is an open chapel in the northwest corner built with three arches. The fa\u00e7ade of the church has an undecorated arched door; above that is a rectangular coral window set in a niche surrounded by small pilasters. Above that, there is a classic clock dating from the latter part of the 19th century. To the rear of the church, there is a bell tower which appears to have been built later than the church, although it is in the same style.\nThe cloister is simple and austere, without luxury or decorations, in sharp contrast to the public areas of the church, tower, open chapel, and \"capillas posas\" used for unbaptized Indigenous. \nThe feast of St. Matthew the Apostle is September 21.\nOther attractions.\nThirteen neighborhoods were built with their respective chapels of \"Los Reyes\", \"La Asunci\u00f3n, Santa Ana, San Sebastian, San Andr\u00e9s, Santa Barbara, San Lucas, Santo Tom\u00e1s, San Marcos, Santiago, San Antonio, San Juan Evangelista\", and \"San Miguel\", of which only four still stand: \"Capilla de los Reyes\" (the Three Kings) and \"Capilla de la Asunci\u00f3n\" (the Assumption) in Atlatlhucan; \"San Juan Bautista\" in Texcalpan (feast day, June 24); \"San Miguel Arc\u00e1ngel\" in Tlatetelco (feast day, September 29).\nMajor festivals are \"Carnaval\" on the Fourth Sunday of Lent and the \"Festivity of Christ Appeared\". According to Catholic tradition, Jesus made twelve appearances between his Resurrection and Ascension. This is celebrated in Atlatlalhucan in \"La Cuevita\" (the Little Cave). A brass band usually accompanies the \"Dance of the Chinelos\" during the festivals.\nCommunities.\nThe rest of the municipality is agricultural. Texcalpan is three kilometers from Atlatlahucan. Tepantongo is five kilometers from Atlatlahucan. San Francisco is four kilometers from Atlatlahucan.\nGeography.\nThe municipality covers 71 km2 (27.4 square miles). The municipality of Atlatlahucan is based on a series of projections forming ravines that separate the hills of the municipality. The north part of the municipality and parts of the southeast are hilly, covering 7.4% of the surface area. Northern valleys cover 67%, and southern plains cover 25%.\nOf the total surface, 3,000 hectares (7,400 acres) are used for agriculture and 3,990 hectares (9,860 acres) for forests. There are 1,846 ejido hectares (4,562 acres) and 3,990 communal hectares.\nClimate.\nThe climate is considered temperate-cold, with an average annual temperature of 20\u00b0C (68\u00b0F). There is 1,005 mm3 (35.6 inches) of annual precipitation.\nHydrography.\n\"Water resources\" include the ravine of \"El Salto\" or Totolapan (waterfall), which joins the \"Arroyo del Bosque\" (stream of the woods) in Oaxtepec, and the ravine that flows into the Yautepec River.\nFlora and fauna.\nThe flora consists mainly of pine-oak forest and pine forest. The fauna are white-tailed deer, raccoon, skunks, squirrels, volcanic mice, puma or mountain lion, Moctezuma quail, mountain hen, bellotera pigeon, blue magpie, goldfinch, Florida mulatto, red spring, rattlesnake, rat viper, frogs, and lizards."}
{"id": "731991", "revid": "20018876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731991", "title": "Military of the Grand Duchy of Finland", "text": "Between 1809 and 1917, Finland was an autonomous part of the Russian Empire as the Grand Duchy of Finland. Between 1881 and 1901, the grand duchy had its own army. Before that, several other military units had also been formed.\nThe Grand Duchy inherited its allotment system (, ) from the Swedish military organization. However, for several decades, Russian rulers did not require military service from Finland \u2013 operations and defence were mostly taken care by Russian troops based in the grand duchy. As a result, officer benefits of the allotment system became practically pensions, as payment was based on passive availability, not on actual service.\nThe Diet of Finland made a pact with Tsar Alexander I; Finland paid a tax to Russia as compensation and military service was not called. This lasted until the Crimean War, 1854, during and after which Finland set up some sharpshooter battalions based on rote system.\nNapoleonic wars.\nIn March 1810, Tsar Alexander I ordered the dissolution for 50 years of the Finnish units that had been part of the Swedish Army. At the same time, the allotment system remained as the basis of Finnish military organization. As a result of Alexander's order, enlisted men were not drafted, but officers, non-commissioned officers and military officials retained their previous benefits. A Senate military affairs committee was set up in 1809 to handle all matters pertaining to the allotment system.\nUpon Napoleon's invasion of Russia in 1812, the Minister\u2013Secretary of State for Finland in St. Petersburg, Count Gustaf Mauritz Armfelt, advocated for a recruited force of 2,400 light J\u00e4ger, who would operate on skis in the winter. Essentially in accordance with Armfelt's proposals, Tsar Alexander on 16 September 1812 ordered the establishment of three foot regiments, each with a strength of 1,200 men. The recruits were supposed to be volunteers, but already by early October 1812, vagabonds and men without legal employment were being impressed into service in the regiments. The mission of these forces was to defend Finland, but they could also be sent to defend other Baltic areas.\nIn 1819, the following military units were in Finland:\nAs was typical for the era, military training was a matter of formality, with the Viipuri J\u00e4ger Regiment only receiving gunpowder and cartridges after pulling security duty in St. Petersburg for two months. Only then were the men trained to load and fire their rifles. Three firing exercises were held annually and each time the men would shoot four times from a distance of 80 paces (61 meters). None of the regiments took part in any combat. All were disbanded in 1830.\nIn 1827 the military was reorganized:\nA battalion had four companies of one hundred men. Together, the troops formed a division.\nThe Helsinki Training Sharpshooter Battalion formed in 1827 was renamed Finnish Guards' Sharpshooter Battalion (, ) which was more commonly known as the Guard of Finland (, ). It remained as a unit of the Russian Imperial Guard until 1905 when it was disbanded. The Cadet school in Hamina was founded in 1812 and existed until 1903. A (, ) was founded in 1846, but later disbanded in 1860.\nA Navy unit, the First Finnish Naval Equipage (, ) was founded in 1830. It had up to 1,000 men and officers. It was succeeded by the Finnish Cadre Equipage (, ) in 1862.\nThe ships were mostly small sailing vessels, but also comprised a couple of bigger steam frigates, the \"Rurik\" and the \"Kalevala\", named after the Finnish national epic. The Second Finnish Naval Equipage (, ) was founded during the \u00c5land War, part of the Crimean War. Finnish Navy artillery-men fought against the British and French fleets from the Santahamina island shore batteries during the siege of Fortress Sveaborg in Helsinki.\nNaval crewmen were greatly reduced in number during the 1860s and 1870s and finally the unit was disbanded in the 1880s.\nThe naval personnel were housed in a garrison building in Katajanokka called () in Helsinki. Today, the building houses the foreign ministry.\nCrimean war.\nDuring the Crimean War, nine battalions were formed in Finland. The soldiers were drafted using the allotment system, a remnant from the Swedish time. The battalions were disbanded in 1867.\nThe conscription act of 1878.\nDuring the 1860s, conscription was seen as an effective way to maintain an army. In 1878, a law was passed by the Diet of Finland and the Emperor Alexander II calling for a general conscription in Finland. The result was an army that was separated from the Russian army. The army was to consist of only Finnish citizens and was to be led by the Governor-General of Finland. The maximum number of men in the army was set to 5,600 and it was to consist of:\nOrganisation.\nThe battalions were founded in 1880\u20131881 and reached full strength in 1883. Each infantry battalion consisted of four companies. The Finnish Dragoon Regiment (, ) consisted of six squadrons (). Thirty-two reserve companies were formed in 1883. The conscripts were selected by a lottery. For those selected to serve, the period of service was three years. However, those with a comprehensive education (at least four years at school) had a service period of two years. The conscripts who were university students served only a year. Those not selected to serve the full period served one month each summer for three years in the reserve company of their region.\nUniforms.\nAll Finnish line units wore the dark green uniforms of the Imperial Russian infantry and dragoons but with light blue facings as a distinction. The Guards Sharpshooters' Battalion wore yellow facings on its dark green uniform, until it was disbanded in 1905.\nDisbandment.\nBetween 1901 and 1905, the separate Finnish army battalions underwent a series of disbandments, concluding with that of the Guards Sharpshooters' Battalion. This was part of the political \"oppression years\" which saw a downgrading of the autonomous status of the grand duchy within the Russian Empire.\nThe original intention was that Finnish recruits would continue to serve but in regular Russian units of the Imperial Russian Army stationed elsewhere. This however met with widespread opposition, with under half of the conscripts called for service in 1902 reporting for training. Accordingly, conscription in Finland was terminated in 1905. A special tax was substituted; to be paid from the Finnish Senate to the Imperial treasury."}
{"id": "731992", "revid": "698799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731992", "title": "Pimp C", "text": "Chad Lamont Butler (December 29, 1973 \u2013 December 4, 2007), better known by his stage name Pimp C, was an American rapper and record producer. He was best known for his work with Bun B as one half of the hip-hop duo Underground Kingz (UGK).\nSigning with Jive Records in 1992, UGK released their major-label debut studio album \"Too Hard to Swallow\" to critical acclaim. Their subsequent albums, \"Super Tight\" (1994) and \"Ridin' Dirty\" (1996), both entered the \"Billboard\" 200. The group received national attention after appearing on Jay-Z's 2000 single \"Big Pimpin'\", which peaked at number 18 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\nThe group went on hiatus for the first half of the 2000s after Pimp C was sentenced to eight years in prison for a probation violation. During this time both members pursued solo careers, with Pimp C releasing his solo debut, \"The Sweet James Jones Stories\", in 2005, composed of material recorded prior to his sentencing. After being released from prison in December 2005, he released his second solo album, \"Pimpalation\", in 2006. UGK released their eponymous fifth studio album (2007); it spawned the single \"International Players Anthem (I Choose You)\" (featuring OutKast), which peaked at number 70 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\nPimp C was found dead in his hotel room on December 4, 2007, with a coroner's report attributing his death to complications from his heavy consumption of lean and pre-existing sleep apnea.\nEarly life.\nChad Lamont Butler was born on December 29, 1973, in Crowley, Louisiana, but was raised in Port Arthur, Texas. Butler was the only child of Charleston Butler and Weslyn \"Mama Wes\" Butler Jacob Monroe. Butler was born prematurely and had numerous health issues, including a birth defect that caused his legs to point inward, which required braces to fix. He also had to be propped up when he slept due to digestive problems. His eyesight was poor, and he almost went blind after a severe bout of pinkeye. Butler also had pneumonia at least nine times as a child.\nAs the son of a trumpet player, Butler had an interest in music since childhood: \"I come from a classical background, I came up singing Italian sonnets, Negro spirituals, and shit of that nature.\" Even before studying musical notation in school, he learned to play many instruments by ear, including piano, trumpet, drums and flugelhorn. His vocal style was once described as \"high-voiced, unstable and provocateur, as likely to slap your face as to sing you a love song.\" Influenced by Run-DMC, he started synthesizing beats to rap over after receiving a drum machine and keyboard one Christmas.\nButler joined the choir as a teenager and played numerous instruments at school, and after being encouraged by his stepfather Bill Monroe, began writing and creating his own music. Butler was particularly interested in the emerging hip hop genre as a child, and soon bonded and became friends with Bernard \"Bun B\" Freeman over their shared passion for music.\nCareer.\nUGK.\nEarly career (1987\u20131996).\nButler formed the rap group Underground Kingz (often referred to as UGK) with friend Bernard \"Bun B\" Freeman in 1987 in Port Arthur, Texas. Initially signed to independent label Big Tyme Recordz, the duo released two EPs, \"The Southern Way\" and \"Banned\", in 1992 to moderate local success, which lead to the group being signed to Jive Records later that year. In November, they released their major label debut, \"Too Hard to Swallow\" through Jive, which peaked at No. 37 on the US Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums chart.\nUGK's second album, \"Super Tight\" was released in 1994 to critical acclaim and commercial success, charting at No. 95 on the Billboard 200 and No. 9 on the Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. In 1996, UGK's third album, \"Ridin' Dirty\", became their most successful, reaching No. 2 on the \"Billboard\" Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums chart and No. 15 on the Billboard 200, receiving widespread critical acclaim and commercial success, having sold 850,000 copies to date.\nHiatus and national attention (1996\u20132001).\nAfter taking a short hiatus from music in the late 1990s, UGK returned in 2000, appearing on Jay-Z's smash hit single \"Big Pimpin'\", which peaked at No. 18 on the Billboard 200, as well as \"Sippin' on Some Syrup\" by Three 6 Mafia, which peaked at No. 30 on the US Hot R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Songs. Both of these collaborations greatly increased the duo's reputation, and helped fuel anticipation for their next project. Jive Records failed to capitalize on this new-found interest in UGK, as their fourth album, \"Dirty Money\", was released in 2001 with little to no advertisement or promotion.\nPrison sentence and solo career (2002\u20132006).\nAfter Pimp C was sentenced to eight years in prison in August 2002, UGK was once again forced to go on hiatus, which led to both members pursuing solo careers. Pimp C's debut studio album, The \"Sweet James Jones Stories\" was released in March 2005, composed of material recorded prior to Pimp C's incarceration. After being released from prison in December 2005, Pimp C released his second solo studio album \"Pimpalation\" in July 2006 and peaked at No. 3 on the US Billboard 200 and topped the US Hot R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums chart.\nUGK Reunited.\nOn August 7, 2007, UGK reunited to release their eponymous fifth studio album, debuting at No. 1 on both the Billboard 200 and Hot R&amp;B/Hip-Hop charts. The album was the last UGK album released during Pimp C's lifetime, and spawned the hit single \"International Players Anthem (I Choose You)\", and received universal acclaim from critics.\nPersonal life.\nButler married his wife, Chinara, while he was in prison in 2003.\nLegal issues.\nOn December 16, 2000, Butler was arrested in Houston's Sharpstown Mall after allegedly holding a woman, Lakita Hulett, at gunpoint and threatening to shoot her after a confrontation in a shoe store. After both Butler and Hulett had exchanged words in the store, Hulett alleged that Butler pushed a gun into her side and said, \"Bitch, I'll shoot you,\" before she ran away and informed police. Butler claimed he simply lifted his jacket to show the gun and did not remove it from his waistband.\nAs Butler attempted to exit the mall and enter his car, numerous officers surrounded him and instructed him to surrender. Butler ignored the orders and was forced to the ground by officers, who handcuffed him and brought him back into the mall. Shortly after, Butler was transported to Houston Central Jail where he was charged with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. Butler claimed police used excessive force to restrain him, and alleged they knocked him unconscious twice and refused to let doctors at a local hospital perform a routine CT scan, instead transporting him straight to jail.\nButler posted $10,000 bail the following day and was initially sentenced to probation after pleading no contest in early 2001. He was sent back to prison in January 2002 after failing to report to his probation officer on several occasions, failing to keep up with his community service hours or pay outstanding court fees, as well as testing positive twice for marijuana. On August 5, 2002, Butler was sentenced to eight years in prison.\nHis arrest was widely protested by the hip-hop community, who along with Bun B immediately initiated a grassroots \"Free Pimp C\" campaign. Butler spent the later portion of his sentence at the Terrell Unit in Brazoria County, Texas and was transferred to the Huntsville Unit a week prior to his release. On December 30, 2005, Butler was released from prison and placed on parole until December 2009.\nDeath.\nIn early December 2007, Butler was staying at the Mondrian Hotel in West Hollywood, California, where he was working on new music and performing with Too $hort. On the morning of December 4, 2007, he was scheduled to fly back home. After not hearing from him, his wife, Chinara, called the hotel and requested that they check on him. Hotel staff discovered Butler unresponsive in his hotel room. Paramedics pronounced him dead shortly after. He was 33 years old.\nThe coroner's report ruled that Butler's death was accidental, attributing it to the effects of his heavy usage of \"lean\", a combination of codeine and promethazine, in conjunction with his pre-existing condition of sleep apnea. Butler referred to lean many times in his music.\nAccording to DJ Paul of Three 6 Mafia, Butler's manager Rick Martin described seeing the rapper's body \"laying down like he was praying but there was blood around like he was shot.\" He further stated: \"He was knelt down like he was praying and the candles were all the way burnt down, so they knew he'd probably been dead for a day or so because he always lit those candles to sleep. He lit those big tall candles and they had been burnt down so he probably was dead for a while.\"\nButler's body was transported back to his hometown of Port Arthur, Texas, where his funeral was held at the Bob Bowers Civic Center on December 13, 2007. Port Arthur mayor Deloris Prince, Butler's mother Weslyn Monroe, and Bun B were among the speakers at the service. He was buried at Greenlawn Memorial Park in Jefferson County.\nTributes.\nNumerous rappers paid tribute to Butler after his death. Bun B honored his cohort on songs such as \"You're Everything\" and \"Pop It 4 Pimp\" on his 2008 album \"II Trill\", while UGK's final album, \"UGK 4 Life\", was released in 2009. Lil' Flip released a tribute song, \"RIP Pimp C\", two days after Butler's death, and in 2008, Lil Wayne released a single titled \u201cMe and My Drank\u201d. A$AP Rocky has cited Pimp C as one of his major influences, while Megan Thee Stallion titled her 2018 EP \"Tina Snow\" after Butler's alter ego Tony Snow.\nDiscography.\nStudio albums\nPosthumous studio albums"}
{"id": "731993", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731993", "title": "Axochiapan", "text": "Axochiapan is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos. It stands at , at a mean height of above sea level. It is surrounded by the State of Puebla to the east and south, Jonacatepec to the north, and Tepalcingo to the west.\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The municipality reported 35,689 inhabitants in the year 2015 census. In 2020 the municipality of Axochiapan had 39,174 inhabitants and the city of Axochiapan had 19,085.\nAxochiapan is notable for the numbers of inhabitants that migrate north to the Minneapolis, Minnesota area.\nEtymology &amp; Shield.\nThe origin of Axochiapan's name comes from \"axochi-tl\", which means \u201cwater flower or water lily\u201d. This comes from the many white lilies that form like carpets on the ponds and lakes in the area. The shield's appearance is due to the water lilies that are prevalent in the area. Its peeking out of the water conveys how, just like in real life, they rapidly grow and reproduce in water, particularly during the month of August.\nHistory.\nAxochiapan is a city with ancient Olmec and Tlahuican origins. They were dominated by the Aztec Empire. With the Spanish conquest, the village stopped paying tribute to the Aztec Empire and came under the rule of the Spanish Crown.\nAxochiapan belonged to the municipality of Jonacatepec from 1824 to 1869. Later, the State of Morelos was created, which also created the municipality of Tetelilla. From 1869 to 1898, Axochiapan belonged to Tetelilla until it finally became its own municipality on November 9, 1898, covering territory that previously belonged to Tetelilla (with exception to a city which was integrated with Jonacatepec). Axochiapan's first town hall was installed and the town's first mayor, Luis G. Rebolledo, assumed office at that time.\nA number of citizens from Axochiapan joined the fight during the Mexican Revolution, including Joaqu\u00edn Cama\u00f1o, Marcelino Rodr\u00edguez, Marcelino Vergara, Benigno Abundes, and Jos\u00e9 Palma.\nThe epicenter of the September 19, 2017 earthquake was 7.5 miles southeast of Axochiapan. Four people in the municipality were killed. The Secretary of Health reported that 243 homes were destroyed and 1,161 were damaged in the municipality.\nFelix Sanchez Espinoza of Juntos Haremos Historia (Together we will make history coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) on July 1, 2018.\nWhile the state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020, no cases were reported in Axochiapan. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On April 1, members of the community threatened to burn the hospital if patients with COVID-19 were treated there; on May 5, one of the leaders died from COVID-19. Two people died of COVID-19 on June 6 and authorities delivered the bodies to the wrong families, but the mistake was discovered before cremation. One hundred thirty-eight cases were reported in the municipality on December 27, 2020. The hospital dedicated to the care of serious COVID-19 cases reached 100% capacity on January 15, 2021. Vaccinations for senior citizens (60+) are scheduled to begin on March 12, 2021.\nFifteen people died in Axochiapan, Jantetelco, and Tepalcingo due to adulterated alcohol on Mother's Day. Members of the community burned the house that had sold the adulterated alcohol; no one was inside at the time. The alcohol caused 18 deaths in Axochiapan and 11 others in nearby municipalities. The state office of DIF sent food and water to vulnerable groups of people in eight municipalities including Axochiapan on May 26.\nCommunities.\n\"Axochiapan\" is the municipal seat. It has a population of 19,085 and an altitude of above sea level. There are 26 schools: eight preschools, eight elementary schools (grades 1\u20136), two middle schools (grades 7\u20139), two public and four private high schools (grades 10\u201312), one special education school, and one school for adult education. It is from Cuernavaca and from Mexico City.\n\"Telixtac\" has a population of 5,534 and an altitude of 1,095 meters. There is a preschool, two elementary schools, and a middle school. It is 8\u00a0km from Axochiapan.\n\"Atlacahualoya\" has a population of 3,818 and an altitude of 1,039 meters above sea level. There is a preschool, an elementary school, and a middle school. It is 7\u00a0km from Axochiapan.\n\"Quebrantadero\" has a population of 2,462 and an altitude of 1,069 meters. There is a preschool, an elementary school, and a middle school. It is 5\u00a0km from Axochiapan.\n\"Marcelino Rodriguez (San Ignacio)\" has a population of 2,223 and an altitude of 1,100 meters above sea level. There is a preschool, an elementary school, a middle school, and a high school. It is 10\u00a0km from Axochiapan.\n\"Tlalayo\" has a population of 807 and an altitude of 999 meters. There is a preschool, an elementary school, and a middle school. It is 6\u00a0km from Axochiapan.\nConnections to the Mexican Revolution.\nAxochiapan was not untouched during the Mexican Revolution. Members from the Liberation Army of the South such as Alejandro Casales, Joaqu\u00edn Caama\u00f1o, Marcelino Rodr\u00edguez, Marcelino Vergara, Benigno Abundes, and Jos\u00e9 Palma had connections to the city.\nGeneral Alejandro Casales was one of the most important leaders during the Mexican Revolution. He fought in rebel operations in Morelos and helped organize peasant resistance. On March 11, 1911, peasants in Morelos took up arms in Ayala. Directed by Pablo Torres Burgos, they headed south to take Tlalquiltenango and Jojutla. When Burgos failed to control his men, he resigned from their command. After he left, he was captured and executed by his enemies. This left Casales to organize the soldiers. Soon, forces under the command of Morelos Cuernavaca and the 18th regiment under the control of Colonel Javier Rojas began to search for Casales. It wasn't long before the 18th Regiment found Casales. He fought heroically all day until he was finally caught and burned alive. However, he had left Axochiapan organized to be the background for a new municipality.\nGeneral \"Jos\u00e9 Palma\" was born in Axochiapan; in 1911 he joined the Zapatista movement. He fell in battle, and his body was never found.\nGeneral \"Marcelino Rodr\u00edguez\" was from San Pablo Hidalgo in Tlaltizap\u00e1n. He acted with military forces inside the borders of Morelos. He was an officer under the orders of General Francisco Mendoza, acting as the head of his escorts and later as the colonel of his own guerrilla group.\nGeneral \"Benigno Abundes\" was from Axochiapan. He fought under the orders of General Lorenzo V\u00e1zquez. On August 30, 1911, when Emiliano Zapata broke with the group, Abundes took control of his troops. He continued battling in \"Tilzapotla, Los Hornos, Nexpa, Quetzalpa, Chaucingo\". and \"San Miguel\" in the state of Guerrero.\n\"Joaqu\u00edn Cama\u00f1o P\u00e9rez\" was born in Axochiapan in 1887. Joaqu\u00edn was the son of Mart\u00edn Cama\u00f1o and Petra Garc\u00eda S\u00e1nchez. He began fighting at a very young age because he was angered by injustice. His scope included Jonacatepec to Chietla in the state of Puebla. He united with General Francisco Mendoza's forces and was in the contingent that accompanied the General Emiliano Zapata in Chinameca where he was assassinated.\nGeography.\nLocation.\nAxochiapan is located in southeastern Morelos at 18\u00b030\u2019 N and 98\u00b045\u2019 W at an altitude of above sea level. It is bordered on the north with the municipality of Jonacatepec, to the south and east with the state of Puebla, and to the east with the municipality of Tepalcingo.\nArea.\nThe municipality has an area of , representing 2.9% of the state's total. are used for farming and are used for ranching.\nTopography.\nAxochiapan is located in a valley crossed by ravines. Its ground is hard to work with, and its geologic structure is that of large sediments, conglomerate rocks, and sands of various grades. The area is hilly near the southeast end of town, and those hills make up approximately 12.2% of the city. Axochiapan is mostly flat in its other areas.\nHydrography.\nThe city's main water resources are mainly made up of the Amatzinac River and the \"Tenango River\" which cross the city. There are the gullies named \"Tochatlaco, Los Ahuhuetes\", and \"El Pajarito\". The \"Carros\" and \"Cayehuacan\" dams allow the city to use the water from the San Francisco River Tributary from the Nexpa River, which benefits more than 1,000 families, supports 45 deep wells, and is also used for agriculture.\nClimate.\nThe average annual temperature is , with rainfall that barely reaches 1,000\u00a0mm2 (39@) per year covering the months of June to September. Winds run from north to south.\nFlora and fauna.\nVegetation is primarily low deciduous forest: amate (a fig tree that grows to 75 feet tall), \"cubata\" (an acacia that grows to 25 feet tall), mesquite, peanuts, \"ceibas\" (a spiny tree that grows to 25 feet), \"cuatecomates\" (a tree with yellow or purple fruit), \"guajes\" (a legume), plum, \"guamuchil\" (a tree with red fruit), \"tepehuaje\" (a small tree), among others.\nWe can find mammals such as coyote, opossum, skunk, fox, squirrel, ferret, armadillo, and rabbit. There are reptiles such as the iguana and turtles; and amphibians, such as frogs. Birds include sparrow, buzzard, pigeon, magpies, quail, herons, and chachalacas. Fish include catfish, mojarra, and carp.\nNatural resources.\nThere are large deposits of different types of sand, ideal for making plaster. Mining is an important industry in the area."}
{"id": "731994", "revid": "51078922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731994", "title": "Bun B", "text": "Bernard James Freeman (born March 19, 1973), known professionally as Bun B, is an American rapper. He is best known as one half of the Southern rap duo UGK (Underground Kingz), which he formed in 1987 alongside Pimp C. Aside from his work with UGK, Bun B has released five solo albums, including 2010's \"Trill OG\", which received the rare 5-mic rating from \"The Source\".\nLife and career.\nUGK.\nIn the late 1980s, Pimp C started the rap duo UGK. He first released a demo tape titled \"Underground King\" which didn't feature Bun B on the track. Instead, it featured Pimp C's friend Mitchell Queen. Bun B and friend Jalon Jackson had their own group called P.A. Militia. Both groups joined forces and formed the group 4 Black Ministers. Queen and Jackson later left the group leaving Pimp C and Bun B so they decided to revert to UGK. The demo Pimp C recorded with Mitchell Queen, \"Underground King\", caught the attention of an independent label in Houston called Bigtyme Records. They then released an extended play titled \"The Southern Way\". The release of this record caught the attention of Jive Records. While recording their debut album, \"Too Hard to Swallow\", many of the songs had content too explicit for the album, so Bigtyme Records released an extended play titled \"Banned\" before the album was released, including all the songs that were too explicit for \"Too Hard to Swallow\". The song \"Pocket Full of Stones\" became the first UGK song to get major airplay throughout the United States. Their second album, \"Super Tight...\", followed in 1994. Their third album, \"Ridin' Dirty\", peaked at number 2 on the R&amp;B Charts in 1996, and at number 15 on the \"Billboard\" 200. After releasing their fourth studio album, \"Dirty Money\", Pimp C got sentenced to jail.\n\"Trill\" and beginning of solo career.\nWhen Bun B's UGK partner, the late Chad \"Pimp C\" Butler, entered a jail sentence on an aggravated gun assault charge in 2002, Bun B made guest appearances on numerous albums by other rappers and released a 2005 mixtape titled \"Legends\". Singles featuring a Bun B guest appearance included \"They Don't Know\" by Paul Wall, \"Gimme That\" by Webbie and \"I'm A G\" by Yung Joc. Bun B also appeared in a documentary titled \"Screwed In Houston\" produced by VBS/\"Vice\" that details the history of the Houston rap scene.\nIn October 2005, Bun B's debut solo album \"Trill\" was released. Singles included \"Draped Up\", \"Git It\", and \"Get Throwed\". The album peaked at the number 6 spot on the American \"Billboard\" 200 chart and number 1 on the Top R&amp;B/Hip Hop Albums chart.\n\"II Trill\".\nAfter Pimp C died in 2007, Bun B returned to a solo career. In 2008, he released his second album, \"II Trill\". The first single was \"That's Gangsta\" featuring Jamaican American artist Sean Kingston. It debuted at number 2 on the Billboard 200, selling 98,000 copies. Other singles were \"Damn I'm Cold\" featuring Lil Wayne and \"You're Everything\" featuring Rick Ross, David Banner, DJ Corbett and 8Ball &amp; MJG, the latter of which was dedicated to the late Pimp C.\n\"Trill OG\".\nBun B's third album is \"Trill OG\". In an interview with MTV Live, Bun B stated that 2Pac was set to feature on the album, claiming \"It's a brand new verse.\" The album was released under Universal Music Group on August 3, 2010.\n\"Trill OG: The Epilogue\".\nOn October 28, 2011, a song titled \"The Life\" and produced by 14KT was leaked. On March 3, 2012, Bun B leaked a song featuring Royce da 5'9\" and Redman titled \"Stop Playin'\" after he reached 400,000 followers on Twitter. He has not announced the song's appearance on his upcoming album\nHis fourth studio album was rumored to be titled, \"Trill 4 Life\" and scheduled for a 2013 release. On August 22, 2013, Rap-A-Lot Records revealed that his Sony distributed fourth studio album will be released in October 2013. The album is to feature guest appearances from Rick Ross and 2 Chainz. On October 4, 2013, the album was then officially announced to be titled \"\" and be released on November 12, 2013. The album was revealed to contain primarily leftover tracks from the \"Trill O.G.\" recording sessions. It was also confirmed to feature Pimp C, 2 Chainz, Rick Ross, Lil Boosie, Kirko Bangz, Big K.R.I.T., Raekwon, Z-Ro and Devin The Dude.\nBun B announced \"The Trillest Tour\" in January 2014. On January 30, the Houston native revealed the tour dates, where he was accompanied by fellow Houston native Kirko Bangz. The tour ran from March 6 until April 17, 2014.\nIn 2025, Freeman provided skits on JackBoys and Travis Scott's second compilation album \"JackBoys 2\".\nOther ventures.\nAwards.\nOn June 24, 2014, Bun B made a guest appearance to the Htown Beatdown concert hosted by local radio station Hot 95.7. He was awarded the 360 Legend Award for his successful music career and his impact on the local community.\nTeaching.\nAt the start of the Spring 2011 semester, Bun B joined the faculty of Rice University as a Distinguished Lecturer. He taught a course in the School of the Humanities on Hip hop and Religion. Into 2013 Bun B continues to teach the course twice a week.\nColoring book.\nOn September 17, 2013, Freeman released a coloring book titled \"Bun B's Rap Coloring Book\" along with author Shea Serrano. Freeman and Serrano had previously talked about working together to make a book. At first they agreed on a \"hip hop survival guide\", but both agreed against the project. Later on, Serrano drew coloring pages of rappers that he posted on Tumblr. The pages quickly went viral. Freeman and Serrano then decided to make a whole coloring book.\nTrill Burgers.\nBun B opened up Trill Burgers located on South Shepherd and Richmond Avenue in Houston, Texas.\nPersonal life.\nBun B has been married to Angela \"Queenie\" Wells since 2003 and has two stepchildren and seven step-grandchildren. His stepson is American rapper Young-B, who is a member of the rap group Youngest N Charge, which is Bun B's opening act.\nSince 2013, he has been a guest lecturer at Houston's Rice University.\nOn April 24, 2019, Bun B shot an armed intruder who was attempting to rob his Houston home. The intruder fled on foot. The suspect, DeMonte Jackson, was taken into custody by Houston police after arriving at the hospital.\nDiscography.\nStudio albums\nCollaborative albums"}
{"id": "731996", "revid": "28469164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731996", "title": "Ciudad Ayala", "text": "Ciudad Ayala is a city in the east-central part of the Mexican state of Morelos. It is named for Coronel who fought with Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Morelos during the 1812 Siege of Cuautla. The town's previous name was \"Mapachtlan\". Ayala became a municipality on April 17, 1869.\nCiudad Ayala had a population of 6,190 inhabitants in 2005, and 6335 in 2020. The city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of Ayala, had a population of 85,521 inhabitants in 2015 and it has an area of and 89,834 in 2020. The municipality includes towns \"San Pedro Apatlaco\", \"Anenecuilco\", and \"Tenextepango\", which are all larger than Ciudad Ayala. The city was previously known as \"San Francisco Mapachtlan\" but was renamed in 1868 to honor (1760\u20131812), who was the first leader in the modern state of Morelos to join the Cry of Dolores in 1810.\nThe town of Anenecuilco, birthplace of Emiliano Zapata, is within this municipality; as is the \"Hacienda de San Juan\", near the town of Chinameca, where he was betrayed and assassinated. Ayala itself is best known for giving the name to Emiliano Zapata's manifesto: the Plan of Ayala.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic ruins at \"Olintepec\" date back to 1500 BCE, where they reached their peak between 1200 and 1610 CE. The people of Olintepec were Tlahuicas. Other ruins have been found at Tlayecac.\nIn 1603 Don \"Nicolas Abad\" built the hacienda of \"San Francisco Mapachtlan\" in 1603. Twelve years later this was elevated to a \"congregaci\u00f3n.\" In 1750, supported by Dominican friars, the people built their own church, called \"San Jos\u00e9 de Mapachtlan.\" This was dependent upon Cuautla, Morelos, (formally called \"Cuautla de Ampilas\") and in 1834 it became a \"pueblo.\" In 1868 it became a \"municipalidad\" of the State of Mexico, district of Cuernavaca, and changed its name to \"Villa de Ayala\" in honor of Francisco Ayala, a leader of the Mexican War of Independence. Ayala became a \"Centro de Poblacion\" (Population Center) on March 17, 1976.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020, and five cases were reported in Ayala. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. The municipal president, Isaac Pimentel Mej\u00eda, led an effort to distribute 10,000 food baskets to families in remote areas of the municipality. On June 2, Ayala reported 44 confirmed cases and five deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Ayala reported 264 cases, 205 recuperations, and 34 deaths as of August 31. There were 373 cases reported on December 27, 2020.\nFamous residents.\nMunincipal presidents.\nPresidents of Ciudad Ayala, 1922\u2013present\nEconomy.\nThe Cuautla Industrial Park, located in Ayala, covers and is the second largest in Morelos. Most of the companies are related to the automotive industry. The largest employers are \"Saint-Gobainl\", (glass), \"Sekurit\" (windshields), and \"Continental Automotive Temic\" (industrial parts and transmissions).\nAgriculture is the dominant occupation. Crops include sugar cane, corn, sorghum, rice, onions, zucchini, and gladiolas. Cattle, sheep, horses, and poultry are raised. Tourism is also important.\nTourist attractions.\nThe archaeological ruins of \"Olintepec\" in Ciudad Ayala date from 1500 BCE to 1610 CE, although its peak was from 1200 to 1610 CE. The people paid tribute to Huaxtepec (Oaxtepec), the Mexicas, and the Texcocanos. \"Tlayecac\" has Prehispanic paintings and a small pyramid. The novel \"Tiro al vuelo\" by Alejandro Volnie is set in the village. The 1962 movie \"Pueblito,\" directed by Emilio Fern\u00e1ndez was filmed there.\nThere are ex-haciendas in Tenextepango and Coahuixtla as well as Chinameca. General Emiliano Zapata and three of his men were assassinated in Chinameca on April 10, 1919, and the hacienda has been transformed into the \"National Museum of Agrarian Reform Movement\". There is also a large statue of Zapata on the property.\nOther attractions in Ayala include the parish church of San Jos\u00e9, whose feast is March 15, and the kiosk.\nZapata was born in Anencuilco on August 8, 1879, and his boyhood home is now a museum. San Miguel Arcangel is venerated at the parish church on September 29. There is a statue of Zapata in the town square.\nThere is an old parish church dedicated to Santiago Apostol in Tenextepango. His feast is July 25.\nThere are two small water parks,\"El Axocoche\" or \"El Axochochetl\", located in Rafael Merino neighborhood, which is ejidal and \"El Colobri\" (the hummingbird) which is privately owned. Both have large parking lots and allow camping.\nCommunities and holidays.\n\"San Pedro Apatlaco\" is an agricultural community with 736 hectares (1,819 acres) belonging to 318 producers. The most important crops are onions, beans, and corn. Dairy cattle are raised. There is small-scale commerce and industry. Apatlaco has a population of 13,032. The distance from Ciudad Ayala is approximately two kilometers. Its holidays are February 2 (Candlemas) and June 29 (Saint Peter).\n\"Anenecuilco\" is an agricultural community with 1,328 hectares (3,283 acres) and 507 farmers who grow sugarcane, corn, sorghum, onions, and gladiolus. There is also trade and to a lesser extent, tourism. Its holidays are the fifth Friday of Lent, August 8 (birth of Emiliano Zapata); September 29 (Saint Michael the Archangel). The population is 11,227.\n\"Tenextepango\" is an agricultural community. Principal crops are vegetables such as beans, corn, and zucchini, as well as sugar cane. 1,039 hectares are cultivated by 456 producers. Trade is another important activity, as well as tourism since its annual fair is one of the most important in the area. It has a population of 8,835 inhabitants and its distance to Ciudad Ayala head is 6\u00a0km. Its fair is July 25 (James, son of Zebedee).\n\"Ciudad de Ayala\" is the municipal seat. It has 6,335 inhabitants and is located 60\u00a0km (37.3 miles) from Cuernavaca and 6\u00a0km (3.7 miles) from Cuautla. It is primarily an agricultural community; the most important crops are sugar cane, corn, sorghum, rice, onions, and vegetables, grown on 2,002.4 hectares (4,948 acres). Cattle, goats, horses, and poultry are raised. Commerce and tourism are also important to the economy. Holidays are March 19 (Saint Joseph) and December 12 (Our Lady of Guadalupe).\n\"Jaloxtoc\" has 4,026 inhabitants. Onions, corn, and sorghum are grown on 1,195 hectares by 295 farmers. Cattle, goats, and horses are raised. It is 15\u00a0km (9.3 miles) from Ciudad Ayala.\n\"Tlayecac\" is agricultural with sorghum and corn grown on 1,234 hectares by 195 producers. Cattle, pigs, and goats are raised. The industrial park is located in Tlayecac, which is 13\u00a0km from Ciudad Ayala. April 25 (Mark the Evangelist) is its local holiday. Its 2020 population was 2,879.\nOther communities are:\nGeography.\nLocation.\nThe municipality of Ayala is located in the central part of the state, between 18\u00b046'North and 98\u00b059'West, at an altitude of 1,220 meters (4,000\u00a0ft.) above sea level. To the north are the municipalities of Yautepec, Cuautla. and Yecapixtla, to the south Tepalcingo and Tlaquiltenango; to the east Temoac, Jantetelco, and Jonacatepec; while to the west are Tlaltizap\u00e1n and Yautepec. It is approximately 60\u00a0km from Cuernavaca. and 117\u00a0km (73 miles) south of Mexico City.\nRelief.\nAyala is part of the fertile valley of the \"Plain of Amilpas\". The most important hills are \"El Tenayo, El Aguacate, El Jimil\" and \"Cerro Prieto\" each has an altitude of about 1,500 meters (4920\u00a0ft.) above sea level.\nWaterways.\nThe Ayala River receives water from El Hospital and Calder\u00f3n ravines, flowing south past Abelardo L. Rodr\u00edguez, Olintepec, and Moyotepec, where the waters of the Ahuehueyo ravine join it. In the east, it crosses the Barranca de la Cuera, the Papayos, the Guayabos, and Tlayecac, then continues south through Jaloxtoc. Downstream it joins the Cuautla River, which continues through San Vicente de Ju\u00e1rez and Tecomalco, to flow into the Amacuzac River, a branch of the Balsas River. There are also small springs such as Axocoche, El Colibr\u00ed, and El Platanal. There is a dam in Palo Blanco.\nClimate.\nAyala has a warm subhumid climate. Its average annual rainfall is 800\u00a0mm. (31\") and it has an average annual temperature of 24\u00a0\u00b0C (75\u00a0\u00b0F). Prevailing winds blow from northeast to southwest. The rainy season is June to October, and the dry season is October to June. April and May are the hottest months.\nFlora and fauna.\nThe vegetation consists of low deciduous forest, mainly cubatas, casahuates, tulips, amates (\"Acacia\"), framboyanes, guamuchil (a thorny tree with red fruit), guaje colorado, mesquite, palo dulce, bonnet, tepejuaje, and fruit trees such as \"Annona\", cherimoya, mamey, plum, and guava.\nAnimal life is also very varied. Mammals include raccoon, badger, rabbit, skunk, armadillo, tlacuache, and coyote. Birds include magpie, buzzard, owl, and sparrowhawk. There are iguanas and scorpions. Fish include catfish and mojarra."}
{"id": "731997", "revid": "1308304548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731997", "title": "Grant Nicholas", "text": "Grantley Jonathan Nicholas (born 12 November 1967) is a Welsh musician and the lead singer and guitarist of the rock band Feeder. \nIn 2014, Nicholas released his debut solo album \"Yorktown Heights.\" In the following year, a released a mini-album titled \"Black Clouds\" .\nAs frontman of Feeder, he has gained three platinum-certified albums, three gold-certified and one silver-certified album, two Kerrang awards, a Brit Award nomination, twenty top 40 singles, two silver-certified singles, one gold-certified single, one platinum-certified single and an induction into the Kerrang Radio Hall of Fame.\nEarly years.\nNicholas was born in Newport, South Wales, but grew up in Pwllmeyric near Chepstow. He was educated at Monmouth School. He performed in public for the first time at the age of 11 at school, and gained four O-levels (the predecessor to GCSEs), including an A grade in Art.\nIn school, Nicholas played the trumpet, and joined his first band, Sweet Leaf (named after a song by Black Sabbath, who were his favourite band in his school years, and the first he saw play live, at the Colston Hall in Bristol). He was promised his first guitar by his parents, as an incentive to pass his exams. He received the guitar, an Aron Les Paul copy after passing them.\nGrant says he did not like the \"cattle market\" aspects of school and didn't work hard. His favourite bands at school included heavy metal bands such as Judas Priest and Black Sabbath.\nGuitars.\nNicholas' \"signature guitar\" is a 1967 Sunburst Fender Jazzmaster. In addition to this, he also owns a 1964 Silver Jazzmaster (often tuned differently when used live) and another Sunburst 59 Jazzmaster. He is using Fender Telecasters more and more and has a 73 Sunburst Fender Telecaster a 63 Black Telecaster and a Blue Standard Telecaster.\nHis other guitars include a Cherry Red Gibson SG, a Fender Bellmaster, a Green Custom Jazzbird, a Green Jazzmaster (which he destroyed at Feeder's headline set at Download 2005 and later said he regretted it, but still has the neck to make a new guitar with), a Gibson Firebird, a custom ESP \"Gibstang\", a Sunburst Gibson J-200 Acoustic and a natural finish Yamaha acoustic (for recording). He uses a variety of different pedals and effects to produce the distinctive Feeder sound. His main amplifiers are: Vox AC30s, Fender Twins, Boogie and Marshall + Marshall and Orange Speaker Cabinets.\nFormative years.\nAfter leaving school Nicholas worked as a hair dresser in Cardiff and then a bike courier in London. It was while in London that Nicholas learnt how to be a songwriter. When he was 19, he joined a progressive rock band called Multi-Story as their singer. He released one album with the band called \"Through Your Eyes\" and they disbanded soon after. The album was not given any backing by FM Records, due to internal problems during and after recording. Original singer Paul Ford left, leading to Nicholas being recruited from local band Silent Partner: the latter re-recorded the previously laid-down vocals, while re-writing some lyrics to suit his style. It was the band's second and final album. After Multi-Story broke up, Nicholas joined Welsh nine-piece Temper Temper, where he met future Feeder drummer, Jon Lee. During these years. Nicholas found influence in alternative rock bands such as Nirvana, the Eels, Dinosaur Jr and Foo Fighters. He also enjoys movies such as \"Angel Heart\" and \"Taxi Driver\".\nFeeder.\nThe band were formed whilst Nicholas was a producer, before moving to London to gain more experience. He had already met Jon Lee in Newport who moved down afterwards. They formed an electric/acoustic rock band named Raindancer, who despite winning a TV slot never gained a record deal. This saw bassist John Canham part ways with the band, before Simon Blight followed soon after when they reformed as Hum, which was changed to Reel, before then changing their name once again to Real in 1994 with their final name of Feeder being decided on that same year. A series of Reel recordings surfaced on eBay in early 2006. The band signed to The Echo Label in November of that year still under the name of Real, when this was changed to Feeder shortly afterwards, with London-based graphic designer Taka Hirose taking over bass duties in 1995. A year later in 1996, their debut single \"Stereo World\" reached number 128 on the UK charts during October 1996, while the second single \"Tangerine\" reached number 60. The first full-length album, \"Polythene\", was released in May 1997. Produced by Chris Sheldon, it charted at number 65 in the UK and was certified silver for sales over 60,000 copies in 2003 when the band had already broken through (then upgraded to gold status for 100,000 copies in 2017). \"Metal Hammer\" magazine included it in its Top 20 Albums of 1997 list at number one.\nThe follow-up album, \"Yesterday Went Too Soon\", was produced by Nicholas. Released in August 1999, the album was a much quicker commercial success than its predecessor (entering the UK Albums Chart at number 8 and certified silver in 2001, with this being upgraded to gold in 2003). The title track was the band's first UK top 20 hit.\nTwo years later, the band released their third and also breakthrough album, \"Echo Park\". Produced by Gil Norton (Foo Fighters, Pixies, Echo &amp; the Bunnymen and James), the album peaked at number 5 in the UK and was also certified gold in its release year, before going platinum in 2003. It contained their first top 10 single \"Buck Rogers\".\nIn 2002, drummer Jon Lee took his own life, which saw the band keep out of the public eye, until their fourth album \"Comfort in Sound\" was nearing its completion. The first play of its lead single \"Come Back Around\" on the Radio 1 \"The Evening Session\" show, was the first time since Lee's death that the band made any public appearance and released new material, while a few days before this Grant was interviewed on the station, in which he spoke of their first shows without Lee. The single charted at No. 14, while the follow-up \"Just the Way I'm Feeling\" made the top 10; both singles appeared on \"Comfort in Sound\", also produced by Norton, which although charting one place lower than \"Echo Park\", became their first platinum seller. The album featured Mark Richardson of Skunk Anansie on drums, before he parted company with Feeder in 2009, to return to a reformed Skunk Anansie.\nFollow-up \"Pushing the Senses\" in 2005 (also produced by Norton) was not as successful; although it did not go platinum, it still went gold and charted at number 2 while also containing their third top 10 and second top five single \"Tumble and Fall\", and the more notable \"Feeling a Moment\". 2006 saw their singles compilation also chart at number 2 and achieve platinum status. To date, this is the last Feeder album to go top 5 or be certified, although their next four albums \"Silent Cry\", \"Renegades\", \"Generation Freakshow\" and \"All Bright Electric\" all charted in the top 20. All of these were produced by Nicholas, although Chris Sheldon also produced \"Generation Freakshow\".\nAfter 25 years since forming, Feeder were inducted into the Kerrang! Radio Hall of Fame on 9 August 2019, for \"Distinguished Services to Rock\".\nSolo career.\nIn early 2014, Grant Nicholas announced that he was recording a solo album. The song \"Soul Mates\" premiered on the Dermot O'Leary show on Radio 2 on Saturday 31 May. The same track was made available for a limited time as a free download.\nHis debut solo album \"Yorktown Heights\" was released on 11 August 2014, via Popping Candy, although in Japan it was released a few months earlier on Victor. \"Yorktown Heights\" was produced, written and played by Grant in his North London Treehouse Studio, The Crypt (London) and Angelic Studios in Banbury. Help at the controls came from Sam Miller &amp; Brian Sperber at his Ansons Pocket Studio in Yorktown Heights, upstate New York.\nThe idea to record a solo album, came about after Feeder's gig at the Brixton Academy in late 2012. During this time Grant decided after 20 years without any time off, give Feeder a break for a short time while deciding to use the time to record and promote a solo album. After shows in July and June 2014 at The Slaughtered Lamb and Sebright Arms in London, \"Yorktown Heights\" charted at #29 on the UK album charts, which was seen as a success due to a lack of promotion from mainstream and alternative radio, while reviews mainly came from lesser known sources.\nAfter the release of the album, Grant continued to tour and played the Fuji Rock Festival in Japan along the way. After ending 2014 with a show at the Islington Assembly Hall, Grant announced that due to the success of the album and supporting tour, alongside how much he's enjoyed the experience, more solo shows were announced for 2015.\nAfter the 2015 tour, a mini-album titled \"Black Clouds\" was released before the \"Everyday Society\" single was released for Record Store Day, bringing Grant's solo career to a close. Feeder later resumed activity with their 2016 album \"All Bright Electric\", and the 2017 compilation album \"The Best of Feeder\" which included new material on the bonus album \"Arrow\". Both albums featured tracks originally intended for the solo album, but were re-recorded for Feeder (\"Slint\" and \"Veins\", which maintains the original vocal track). Some have yet to see the light of day, being \"Rats\" and \"The Wall's Around Us\".\nGrant would later close down Popping Candy and Big Teeth Music, before closing down his solo career website and Twitter handle.\nPersonal life.\nNicholas has a Japanese wife named Kana. They had their first child, a girl named Hana Sky, in 2005 and their second child, a boy named Ko Marley, in 2007. They live together in Crouch End, London. He is also follower of football and supports Arsenal F.C. although he also once admitted he does not follow the sport as much as his bandmates. He considers himself an \"old school\" gamer.\nOther work.\nNicholas remixed the track \"Ya Don't See the Signs\" by the now defunct rap group Mark B and Blade, who had released the original version as their first single. Nicholas gave the rap track a rock guitar backing different from the original's hip hop sound. This was added as an extra track to their 2000 album, \"The Unknown\". This version came to the fore when used for the opening credits of the Sky Sports Saturday morning show, \"Soccer AM\". In 2001, the new version, subtitled the \"Grant Nicholas Remix\", was released as a single and reached No. 23 in the United Kingdom.\nNicholas spent the last few weeks of 2006 co-producing rock band EnjoyDestroy's debut album with Brian Sperber, who later split. He was featured on an episode of \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\" in 2008, his second appearance on the show after making his debut in 1999. In 2003, Nicholas sang on \"Broken\", a Junkie XL song from his album \"\".\nAwards.\nAs a member of Feeder, Nicholas has won two \"Kerrang!\" Awards in 2001 and 2003 for Best British Live Act and Best British Band, respectively. Nicholas would later dedicate the latter to Jon Lee in which he said that particular award was the one he always wanted Feeder to win. Kerrang! Radio would later in 2019 induct Feeder into their Hall of Fame for \"Distinguished Services to Rock\". The award plaque is seen in his Treehouse Studio whenever he performs acoustic sessions.\nPopular culture.\nIn a Christmas special of the UK gameshow \"Pointless Celebrities\", which was broadcast on 21 December 2013, Nicholas was a \"Pointless answer\" in a Band Aid 20 round, in which contestants had to identify from the official photo, participants on the recording. All of the members of Snow Patrol were also pointless answers.\nNicholas appeared in an episode of \"Salvage Hunters: Classic Cars\". The programme's hosts renovated a Fiat 130 car in the hope of selling to classic car enthusiasts. Amongst a gathering of interested buyers, Nicholas can be seen in the crowd."}
{"id": "732000", "revid": "39191556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732000", "title": "Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo", "text": "Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo is a town in the Mexican state of Morelos. It stands at ,\nat a mean height of 1,010 metres above sea level.\n\"Coatl\u00e1n\" is a name of Nahuatl origin, meaning \"place of abundant snakes\".\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The municipality reported 9,768 inhabitants in the 2015 census and 10,520 in 2020. The town of Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo had a population of 1,907 the same year.\nHistory.\nThe origin of Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo dates from the pre-Hispanic era. This town was founded by Toltecs in the year 1509, who were on a pilgrimage from Malinalco, State of Mexico. At first, they settled what is historically known as \"Coatl\u00e1n Viejo\" (Old Coatlan), where there are stone ruins of the walls of buildings.\nCoatl\u00e1n Viejo is located 5 kilometers south of the municipal seat, on the hill known as \"Las Paredes\" (the Walls). Later, they moved to the hill of \"Axoyochi\", located 3 km to the east, where archaeological remains of carved stones, known as Momoxtles (mound of earth), were found. It is believed there is a pyramid that has not been discovered. \nOther ruins of a town have been found in \"San Rafael\", on the banks of the Chalma River. The stone called \"Escudo\" (now in the Palace of Cort\u00e9s, Cuernavaca a.k.a. \"Museo Regional Cuauhnahuac\") is a series of hieroglyphic and pictographic figures represent the history of the area. There is a similar stone on the civic plaza of Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo. Other groups, such as the Aztecs and the Tlahuica, may have settled in this area. This town belonged to the religious and political center of Xochicalco, to then become part of the lordship of \"Cuauhnahuac\" (Cuernavaca), a tributary city of the Aztecs. \nIn the Colonial Era (1521-1812), Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo was given in \"encomienda\" (entrusted to) a conquistador named Juan Zerme\u00f1o. In 1782, Zerme\u00f1o's family filed a lawsuit against the Marquessate of the Valley of Oaxaca over control of the town church, \"San Gaspar\", which had been built in the 16th century.\nThe current church of Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo was founded in 1808, and the bells were added in 1809. There is also a church called \"Santos Reyes\" or \"Epifania del Se\u00f1or\", and the chapel of \"Dolores\", also called \"el Calvario\". \nCoatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo was declared a municipality on May 22, 1862.\nThe old municipal presidency was located to the south of the civic square, where the elementary school \"Prof. Miguel Salinas\" is today. In 1939, city hall has been at the former home of General \"Pedro Saavedra Brito\" (d. 1935). The current city hall was built in 1957 by Colonel \"Ezequiel Cruz Ortiz\" (1890-1970).\nCarlos Nieto Estrada, an independent candidate, was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the July 1, 2018 election.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020, two cases were reported in Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo reported five confirmed cases and one death from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo reported 17 cases, 12 recuperations, and six deaths as of August 31. Twenty-five cases were reported on December 27,2020.\nWater Resources.\nFederal government page in Spanish (Dec 19, 2018)\nThe municipality has important hydrological resources, which greatly benefit the regional economy and influence the climate, microclimates, and vegetation.\nThe most important river is the Chalma River, which source is in Chalma, State of Mexico. It crosses the municipality through Colonia Morelos, Cocoyotla; and Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo. There are three dams: \"La Toma\" in Cocoyotla, and \"Apantle Chico\" and \"Cazahuatl\u00e1nfrom\" in San Rafael. The \"Apantle Grande\" is derived from the Coatl\u00e1n Dam; there is also another small dam in Cocoyotla, which is the source of the \"Agua Salada\".\nThere are other low-flow streams such as the \"Cuates\", the \"Cocoyotla\", and the \"Axixintle\" that carry water throughout the year, and the \"Joyas\", the \"Arenal\" and the \"Milpillas\", which carry water only during the rainy season (May-November). There are also eight springs and seven wells.\nCommunities.\nThere are several small towns and villages in the municipality. The principal economic activities are farming, ranching, dairy, and cultivation of fruit and flowers.\nOther communities have fewer than 1,000 residents."}
{"id": "732005", "revid": "32990417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732005", "title": "Garth Marenghi", "text": "Garth Marenghi is a fictional horror author created by English comedian Matthew Holness. He is depicted as a conceited hack writer, who remains blissfully (or even wilfully) unaware of his lack of talent. Holness has used Marenghi as the framing device for a number of horror parody works, which the character presents as the products of his own supposed genius.\nThe character has appeared in two stage shows, the Perrier Award-nominated \"Garth Marenghi's Fright Knight\" and Perrier Award-winning \"Garth Marenghi's Netherhead\", and the Channel 4 TV series \"Garth Marenghi's Darkplace\" and \"Man to Man with Dean Learner\".\nAfter winning the Perrier Award, the creators confounded media sources by refusing to speak out of character, or give real names or backgrounds.\nCharacter.\nGarth Marenghi is a spoof pulp horror author; his act and his works are considered a parody of the horror genre.\nThe character is highly conceited and narcissistic, often described through epithets such as \"the dream weaver\", \"shaman\", \"titan of terror\", \"The One Man Fear Factory\", \u201cThe Fright Honourable\u201d, and \"master of the macabre.\" Marenghi speaks in an exaggerated, doltish South Eastern accent, possibly located around Romford, Essex, or Leytonstone. Rather like E. L. Wisty, arguably the accent might have associations with an odd, imbecilic pub bore: somebody that one might avoid. The accent comically undermines the often pretentious, absurd and grandiose things the character says. In interviews, he compares himself positively with James Joyce, Shakespeare, Leonardo da Vinci, and Jesus.\nDespite this, Marenghi displays a general ignorance of many subjects of which he claims knowledge. He claims to be self-taught, having left school young (\"I knew by the age of eight that my education had finished\"), and despite his claims to being a literary genius he rarely reads books. When he needs to learn about a subject, he will \"hire someone to go and find out about it.\" In both stage shows, in the official website, and in numerous interviews he claims to have written more books than he has read.\nMarenghi displays other traits including sexism, xenophobia, and extreme paranoia. \"Darkplace\" protagonist Rick Dagless is largely characterized as an author insert of Marenghi, drawing on his own insecurities and experiences in writing him. During the \"Darkplace Illuminatum\" DVD feature Marenghi comments \"In many ways he is an extension of my own natural abilities. He's got a little more than me. He is a little more tragic than I am, as a character. He's seen the dark side. A little too much.\"\nHe is depicted as married with four daughters, though disappointed at not having a son. The \"Darkplace\" episode \"Skipper the Eye Child\" explains this, and references this in its plot with Dagless shown as having a deceased son who was half boy, half grasshopper.\nAppearances.\nStage.\nThe character of Marenghi was invented for the horror parody stage show \"Garth Marenghi's Fright Knight\".\n\"Garth Marenghi's Darkplace\".\nThe 2004 show \"Garth Marenghi's Darkplace\" is based on the premise that Garth Marenghi wrote and starred in a 1980s low-budget hospital-based horror show. Within this fictional context, 50 shows were created, but were never shown as they were suppressed by \"MI-8\" for being \"too subversive, too dangerous, too damn scary.\"\nOther television appearances.\nMarenghi also guests in the first episode of Dean Learner's talk series, \"Man to Man with Dean Learner\", where he reveals that he lost an ear in an ambulance crash, has written a total of 436 books, and has filmed a new movie, \"War of the Wasps\", featuring most of the cast of \"Garth Marenghi's Darkplace\". Marenghi has appeared in an episode of the \"Russell Howard Hour\" as part of a Christmas special to read a portion of one of his novels, \"Flay Bells Sting, Are You Glistening?\"\nTours.\nBeginning in 2022, Holness has also used Garth Marenghi as a pen name for his horror parody books, giving a series of book tours in character as Marenghi.\nPodcast.\nIn 2025, Holness launched the podcast \"Garth Marenghi's Skull-Flusher\", in which he interviews \"terror titans\" as Marenghi, starting with horror film director Mike Flanagan.\nFictional bibliography.\nEarly novels.\nThe following titles are mentioned in \"TerrorTome\" as books written by the protagonist, Nick Steen\".\" In \"The Reel Feedback Podcast #89\", Marenghi stated that readers may recognise the titles being the same as his own fledgling efforts in the early eighties."}
{"id": "732006", "revid": "5789436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732006", "title": "Palmer's College", "text": ""}
{"id": "732007", "revid": "34462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732007", "title": "At will", "text": ""}
{"id": "732011", "revid": "13211778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732011", "title": "Poundstretcher", "text": "Poundstretcher Limited is a British variety store chain, founded in 1981 by Paul Appell and Stephen Fearnley. The retailer is currently based in Kirby Muxloe, Leicestershire, and since April 2024 has been a subsidiary of the Fortress Investment Group.\nAs of March 2023, the retailer has 324 locations and employs around 4,000 people, with 61 of its locations trading as Bargain Buys.\nHistory.\nPoundstretcher was established in 1981 by Paul Appell and Stephen Fearnley. It became a subsidiary of Brown &amp; Jackson plc (originally a construction firm which can be traced back to 1923) in March 1989.\nAfter selling Poundstretcher to Philip Harris, founders Paul Appell and Stephen Fearnley acquired control of a failing retail business, \"United News Shops\", which they managed to revitalise. In March 2008, \"United News Shops\" was sold to WHSmith.\nIn 1995 Pepkor, South Africa's largest retailer, acquired a controlling stake in Brown &amp; Jackson plc and refinanced it. Brown &amp; Jackson expanded rapidly with What Everyone Wants and Your More Stores purchased in October 1997 and The Brunswick Warehouse in January 2000. During 2000 the group continued to expand organically, including its first overseas venture with the opening of 6 stores in Poland.\nDuring 2002 the group embarked on a major restructuring. The board undertook to dispose of the trading subsidiaries other than Poundstretcher Ltd and this disposal was completed on 27 September 2002. In 2003 the company undertook a rebrand of company name to Instore plc. Poundstretcher stores were gradually being rebranded to ...instore, however in 2006, a new chief executive concluded that the rebranding was not working, and from June 2009, new stores were opened as Poundstretcher after Instore plc was acquired by Aziz Tayub. In September 2012, the group had 400 stores in the United Kingdom.\nIn May 2011, the company bought Alworths. On 6 February 2012, Poundstretcher acquired 20 stores from the UGO chain, after it was placed in administration. In April 2012, Poundstretcher opened a store at Madina Mall, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, the first outside the United Kingdom since the 2002 disposal of B&amp;J Poland. In September 2012, it was announced that out of the 20 stores that were acquired, 14 were to close, and the remaining 6 most profitable outlets would remain as part of the group.\nIn 2018, after Poundworld was shut down, Poundstretcher began to open former stores under the Bargain Buys brand name, which was previously used by the former company. The trademark for Bargain Buys was claimed by Poundstretcher.\nIn August 2018, Channel 4 broadcast \"Saving Poundstretcher\" which focused on former Poundworld owner Chris Edwards's attempts to revitalise the chain. Edwards was dismissed from his role at the retailer by owner Aziz Tayub during the series, which attracted criticism from viewers.\nIn June 2020, the retailer explored the possibility of a company voluntary arrangement due to financial difficulties. It would achieve large profit increases in the following year.\nIn September 2023, the retailer began looking at acquiring Wilko locations, following the chain's administration. In December, Tristan Phillips, the former head of finance at Marks &amp; Spencer, was promoted to be the retailer's chief executive.\nin April 2024, Aziz Tayub sold Poundstretcher to Fortress Investment Group."}
{"id": "732018", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732018", "title": "Lakeside, Thurrock, Essex", "text": ""}
{"id": "732035", "revid": "671411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732035", "title": "Grays Athletic F.C.", "text": "Grays Athletic Football Club is a football club based in Grays, Essex, England. It is currently a member of the . The team play at Chadfields in nearby Tilbury.\nHistory.\nThe club was established as Grays Juniors in 1890, before merging with former Southern League club Grays United to form Grays Athletic. The newly formed club joined the Grays &amp; District League, later joining Division Two B of the South Essex League in 1908. It was runner-up in its first season in the division and won it in its second season, earning promotion to Division One for the 1909\u201310 season. The club was a founder member of the Athenian League in 1912, but that league closed down in 1914 due to the First World War, and Grays transferred to the Premier Division (Amateur) of the London League. They won the division in their first season, with the reserves also winning Division One. The league was suspended at the end of the 1914\u201315 season, with Grays rejoining in the Premier Division when it restarted in 1919\u201320.\nGrays were Premier Division runners-up in 1920\u201321, before winning the division in 1921\u201322. In 1924 the club joined the Kent League but after two seasons in mid-table, they returned to the London League in 1926. The return was a success as the club were Premier Division champions in 1926\u201327 and runners-up in the next two seasons, before winning the title again in 1929\u201330. After finishing as runners-up in 1930\u201331, the club spent most of the 1930s in mid-table, although they won the league's Challenge Cup in 1936\u201337.\nAfter the Second World War, Grays was a founder member of the Corinthian League, and was that league's inaugural champion and League Cup winner in 1945\u201346. They were league runners-up in 1951\u201352, and the following season saw them qualify for the first round of the FA Cup for the first time, losing 5\u20130 at home to Llanelli. They were league runners-up again in 1954\u201355 and 1956\u201357, before rejoining the Athenian League in 1958. When the league gained two more divisions in 1963, the club were placed in the Premier Division, where they remained until being relegated to Division One at the end of the 1971\u201372 season, in which they had finished bottom of the table. In 1977 the league was reorganised into a single division, and the club were runners-up in 1982\u201383.\nIn 1983 Grays transferred to Division Two of the Isthmian League. League reorganisation saw them placed in Division Two South in 1984 and they went on to win the division at the first attempt, earning promotion to Division One. In 1987\u201388 they were Division One runners-up, resulting in promotion to the Premier Division. In 1988\u201389 the club reached the first round of the FA Cup for a second time, losing 2\u20130 at Bath City. They remained in the Premier Division until being relegated back to Division One at the end of the 1996\u201397 season. In 1999\u20132000 the club were Division One runners-up, earning promotion back to the Premier Division. In 2000\u201301 another appearance in the FA Cup first round saw them play Football League opposition for the first time, losing 4\u20130 at Reading.\nA sixth-place finish in 2003\u201304 resulted in Grays being placed in the new Conference South for the 2004\u201305 season. They went on to win the new division in its first season, earning promotion to the Conference National. The season also saw them reach the final of the FA Trophy, in which they beat Hucknall Town 6\u20135 on penalties after a 1\u20131 draw at Villa Park. In their first season in the Conference National the club finished third, qualifying for the promotion play-offs. However, they lost 5\u20134 on aggregate to Halifax Town. They also reached the second round of the FA Cup, beating York City 3\u20130 at Bootham Crescent before losing 3\u20130 at Mansfield Town, as well as retaining the FA Trophy with a 2\u20130 win over Woking in the final. The club's league form subsequently faded and after narrowly avoiding relegation in 2006\u201307 and 2008\u201309, they finished bottom of the Conference National in 2009\u201310 and resigned from the Football Conference.\nGrays were initially rejected by the Isthmian League and were lined up to play in the Essex Senior League. However, an appeal to the Football Association saw them placed in Division One North of the Isthmian League. A fifth-place finish in 2011\u201312 saw them qualify for the play-offs, in which Enfield Town defeated them 3\u20131 on penalties after a 2\u20132 draw in the semi-final. However, the club were Division One North champions the following season with a club record 102 points, earning promotion back to the Premier Division. In August 2016 the club became community-owned. They went on to finish bottom of the Premier Division in the 2016\u201317 and were relegated back to the (renamed) North Division. In 2022\u201323 the club finished fifth in the North Division, qualifying for the promotion play-offs, in which they lost 3\u20132 to AFC Sudbury in the semi-finals.\nGround.\nThe club initially played at the Hoppit Ground in Little Thurrock. In 1906 they moved to the New Recreation Ground, playing there until 2010. After the ground was sold to developers, the club groundshared with East Thurrock United at their Rookery Hill ground in Corringham.\nDuring the 2012\u201313 season the club played at Rush Green Stadium in Rush Green, sharing the ground with West Ham United's reserves who played in the Professional Development League. The following season, West Ham pulled out of the deal in June and Grays moved to Aveley's Mill Field ground. When Aveley moved to Parkside in 2017, Grays became tenants at the new ground. In February 2023 Grays announced the club would be groundsharing at Tilbury for the 2023\u201324 season.\nIn 2024 the club obtained ownership of Ship Lane, the former home of Thurrock, stating they hoped to be playing at the new ground in the 2025\u201326 season. However, they have since revised their target to the 2026\u201327 season, and talks are currently on-going to extend their groundshare agreement with Tilbury FC."}
{"id": "732038", "revid": "16884787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732038", "title": "Hornisgrinde", "text": "The Hornisgrinde, 1,164\u00a0m (3,820\u00a0ft), is the highest mountain in the Northern Black Forest of Germany. The Hornisgrinde lies in northern Ortenaukreis district.\nOrigin of the name.\nThe name is probably derived from Latin, and essentially translates to \"boggy head,\" referring to the raised bog (\"Hochmoor\"). Another interpretation of the name is derived from the terms \"Horn\", \"miss\" and \"grind\" and meant the same as \"kahler Bergr\u00fccken\" (\"bald ridge\"), which carries a moorland on its height.\nGeography.\nThe summit of the Hornisgrinde is framed by the Muhrkopf (1003 m), near Unterstmatt, in the north and the Mummelsee (1036 m) in the south. Its western slope is cut through by the \"Schwarzwaldhochstra\u00dfe\" (B 500) at approximately 900 to 1000 m, while, on its east side, the Hornisgrinde drops steeply into the ice-age cirque \"Biberkessel,\" landing in Blindsee Lake. The summit merges into another mountain, the Katzenkopf, in the southwest at 1123 m. To the southeast drops a burr toward Seibelseckle. The Katzenkopf and the southeast burr of the Hornisgrinde form the cirque of the Mummelsee.\n\"Grinden\" and raised bogs.\nThe \"Grinden\" - treeless wet heathlands on the highest areas, were created following forest clearance and the subsequent use of the land as grazing in the 15th century. By contrast the raised bog, up to five metres thick, in the southeastern area of the summit plateau is naturally treeless. It is reckoned to be at least 6,000 years old.\nParts of the plateau with the raised bog and the Karwand to the Biberkessel were designated as the Hornisgrinde-Biberkessel Nature Reserve (\"Naturschutzgebiet Hornisgrinde\u2013Biberkessel\", 95 ha.) in 1992.\nClimate.\nThe Hornisgrinde belongs to the precipitation-richest places in Germany. The average yearly precipitation amounts to 1931\u00a0mm. Over 99% of the measuring points of the German weather service indicate lower values. The driest month is February; at most it rains in June. There's 1.4 times more precipitation in the precipitation-richest month than in the driest one. The seasonal precipitation fluctuations lie in the upper third. In over 81% of all places the monthly precipitation varies less.\nHistory.\nDreif\u00fcrstenstein.\nThe Dreif\u00fcrstenstein is a sandstone plate, which is located at the southeast edge of the plateau. It originates from the year 1722 and marked the border between the Margraviate of Baden, the duchy W\u00fcrttemberg and the Diocese of Strasbourg. Today the point represents the boundary border between Baden's municipalities Sasbach, Seebach and W\u00fcrttemberg's municipality Baiersbronn. With a height of 1,151 m above sea level the Dreif\u00fcrstenstein is the highest point of W\u00fcrttemberg.\nMilitary use.\nIn 1938 the entire southern range of the summit level was declared as the military restricted area. First being in use since 1942 by the German Forces as an air defense position, the French took over the location in 1945. These operated on the Hornisgrinde an observing station on behalf of the French foreign secret service DGSE. Later the location was used parallel also by the Bundeswehr and NATO. After the plant went out of operation in 1994, it lay fallow several years. The restricted area was released in 1997. In 1999 the neighbor municipalities took over the federal area. Some of the buildings and masts are preserved, however they're purging more and more.\nTourism.\nThe long-distance footpath, the West Way runs across the ridge, and the Black Forest High Road runs over the western and southern sides of the mountain, with a large car park at the Mummelsee. From there an educational path with information boards by the Ruhestein nature conservation centre leads across the summit plateau, crossing the raised bog on a board walk.\nObservation tower.\nAt the southern end, above the Mummelsee, stands the 23-metre-high Hornisgrinde Tower. The construction of this observation tower in 1910 was an initiative by the Black Forest Club branch in Baden. New red sandstone was used as the building material. Together with the Mummelsee, the tower was one of the most popular destinations in the region at that time. In 1942 it was commandeered by the Luftwaffe. After World War II it was used by the French military. In 2000 the Seebach forestry association acquired the tower from the Federation and transferred it to the municipality of Seebach as a lease. On 29 May 2005 the tower was opened again to the public.\nSignal tower.\nAt the highest point of the mountain, in the midst of the summit level is a further tower, the 7 meters high signal tower established around 1840. In 1892 it was converted by assembly of stairs at the exterior into an observation tower. However, it was inaccessible during the military use of the summit. In 2000 the tower (also called Bismarck tower) was reorganized and made again accessible by a steel spiral stair lying outside.\nWinter sports.\nAlpine.\nThere is no lift system to the top of the Hornisgrinde itself. However, north of the summit is the \"Skizirkus Unterstmatt\", with two lifts at the north slope of the Muhrkopf. To the south is the nearby ski lift of Seibelseckle.\nCross-country skiing.\nAround the summit of the Hornisgrinde leads a 14\u00a0km long \"loipe\" consisting of the Mummelseeloipe (6\u00a0km), Hundsr\u00fcckenloipe (4.5\u00a0km) and the Ochsenstall-Seibelseckle \"loipe\" (3.5\u00a0km). It is prepared for classical and skating technology. Entrance possibilities are at the Mummelsee, at the col Seibelseckle and at the col Unterstmatt.\nPhoto gallery.\n&lt;br&gt;"}
{"id": "732047", "revid": "846305765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732047", "title": "Chakras", "text": ""}
{"id": "732052", "revid": "3311318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732052", "title": "List of mountains in Serbia and Montenegro", "text": "List of mountains of Serbia and Montenegro may refer to:"}
{"id": "732056", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732056", "title": "Sar mountain", "text": ""}
{"id": "732057", "revid": "34462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732057", "title": "At-will", "text": ""}
{"id": "732065", "revid": "17171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732065", "title": "Chops (juggling)", "text": ""}
{"id": "732066", "revid": "52076210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732066", "title": "Sprinkles", "text": "Sprinkles are small pieces of confectionery used as an often colorful decoration or to add texture to desserts such as brownies, cupcakes, doughnuts or ice cream. The tiny candies are produced in a variety of colors and are generally used as a topping or a decorative element. The \"Dictionary of American Regional English\" defines them as \"tiny balls or rod-shaped bits of candy used as a topping for ice-cream, cakes and other\".\nNames.\nIn the UK and other Anglophonic Commonwealth countries sprinkles are denoted by different signifiers. For example, hundreds and thousands is the most popular denotation used in United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa to refer to nonpareils, a type of sprinkles. Another UK variant of the term is vermicelli, especially when said of chocolate sprinkles. This name can be seen borrowed into spoken Egyptian Arabic as \"fa\u02d0rmasil\".\nJimmies is the most popular term for chocolate sprinkles in the Boston, Philadelphia, and New England regions.\nThe origin of the name \"jimmies\" is uncertain, but it was first documented in 1930, as a topping for cake. The Just Born Candy Company of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, claims to have invented jimmies and named them after an employee.\nAn unlikely claim on the name \"jimmies\" originates from Dr. Sidney Farber and Edward Brigham. Dr. Farber co-founded the Dana\u2013Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, as well as a charity, The Jimmy Fund, named after one of his child patients. Brigham opened an ice cream restaurant called Brigham's and charged an extra penny for chocolate sprinkles on a cone, which benefited The Jimmy Fund. The fund however, was started in 1948, well after the first historical reference.\nIn Connecticut and other places in the U.S., as indicated by including the sense in the official Merriam-Webster, shots is a specific term for sprinkles.\nHistory.\nNonpareils date back at least to the late 18th century, if not earlier. They were used as decoration for pi\u00e8ces mont\u00e9es and desserts.\nDutch \"hagelslag\" (chocolate sprinkles) were invented in 1913 by Erven H. de Jong from Wormerveer. Venz, another Dutch company, made \"hagelslag\" popular. \"Hagelslag\" is used on bread and other things made of bread. Most of the time butter is spread out so the \"hagelslag\" does not fall off. After much research and venture, Gerard de Vries and Venz created the first machine to produce the tiny cylindrical treats. They were named \"hagelslag\" after their resemblance to a weather phenomenon prominent in the Netherlands: hail. (This reference is also transferred to the Finnish word for sprinkles, \"koristerakeet\" which literally means \"decorative hail\"). Only \"hagelslag\" with a cacao percentage of more than 32% can bear the name \"chocoladehagelslag\" (chocolate sprinkles). If it is lower than 32%, it is to be referred to as \"cacaofantasie\" or \"cacaofantasie hagelslag\" (cacao fantasy sprinkles).\nThe American candy company Just Born cites its founder, Sam Born, as inventing the \"chocolate\" sprinkles called \"jimmies\" (which might never have contained any chocolate) in Brooklyn, New York. However, advertisements for chocolate sprinkles as a confection exist in the United States as far back as 1921, predating Just Born by two years.\nA related product, sanding sugar has been commercially available in a small range of colors for decades. Now it comes in a wide variety, including black and metallic-like \"glitter\".\nTypes.\nPopular terminology for this confection tends to overlap, while manufacturers are more precise with their labeling. What consumers often call \"sprinkles\" covers several types of candy decorations that are \"sprinkled\" randomly over a surface, as opposed to decorations that are placed in specific spots. Nonpareils (hundreds-and-thousands), confetti, silver, gold, and pearl drag\u00e9es, pearl sugar and \"sugar shapes\" (sequins) are all used this way. \n\"Sanding sugar\" is a transparent crystal sugar of larger size than general-use refined white sugar. \"Crystal sugar\" tends to be clear and of much larger crystals than sanding sugar. \"Pearl sugar\" is relatively large, opaque white spheroids of sugar. Both crystal and pearl sugars are typically used for sprinkling on sweet breads, pastries, and cookies in many countries.\nSome American manufacturers deem the elongated opaque sprinkles the official sprinkles. In British English, these are \"sugar strands\". In the New England region of United States, as well as in Philadelphia, sprinkles are often referred to as jimmies. \"Jimmies\", in this sense, are usually considered to be used as an ice cream topping, while sprinkles are for decorating baked goods, but the term can be used for both.\nThe sprinkles known as \"nonpareils\" in French are tiny opaque spheres that were traditionally white, but that now come in many colors; in Commonwealth countries such as the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand, these are known as \"hundreds and thousands\". \nThe sprinkle-type of \"drag\u00e9e\" (also known as a \"cachou\") is like a large nonpareil with a metallic coating of silver, gold, copper, or bronze. The food-sprinkle drag\u00e9e is now also made in a form resembling pearls.\n\"Sugar shapes\" (\"sequins\") are a newer product which come in a variety of shapes, often flavored, for holidays or themes, such as Halloween witches and pumpkins, or flowers and dinosaurs. Candy cane shapes may taste like peppermint, and gingerbread men like gingerbread cookies.\nToppings that are more similar in consistency to another type of candy, even if used similarly to sprinkles, are usually known by a variation of that candy's name\u2014for example, mini-chocolate chips or praline.\nUses.\nSprinkles generally require frosting, ice cream, or some other sort of sticky material in order to stick to the desired food surface. They can be most commonly found on smaller confections such as cupcakes or frosted sugar cookies, as these generally have more frosting and smaller diameter than do cakes.\nIn the Netherlands, \"chocoladehagelslag\" (chocolate sprinkles) is used as a sandwich topping (similar to muisjes and vlokken); this is also common in Belgium and the former colonies of the Netherlands, Suriname and Indonesia. These countries also use \"vruchtenhagel\" and \"anijshagel\" (made of sugar and fruit/anise-flavour respectively) on sandwiches (mainly at breakfast). In Indonesia, it is commonly known as \"meses\" or \"meises\", presumably derived from the Dutch \"muisjes\", which are also similar. In Belgium it is often called \"muizenstrontjes\" (mouse droppings), due to the resemblance. Chocolate sprinkles are also used in \"brigadeiro\", a Brazilian tradicional dessert.\nFairy bread is the name given to the children's treat of nonpareils (\"hundreds and thousands\") on buttered white bread. Fairy bread is commonly served at children's parties in Australia and New Zealand.\nA dessert called confetti cake has sprinkles mixed with the batter, where they dissolve and form little colored spots, giving the appearance of confetti. Confetti cakes are popular for children's birthdays in the United States. The Pillsbury Company sells its own variation known as \"Funfetti\" cake, incorporating a sprinkle-like substance into the mix.\nIn popular culture.\nIn an interview with Collider in April 2024, Andrew Ahn confirmed that his next film would be \"A Sprinkle of History\" with Paul Giamatti, Toby Jones, Adam Scott and David Schwimmer set to star. The film, a fictionalized black comedy crime story about Sam Born arriving in 1950s New York and creating Sprinkles, is being penned by Anthony Bagarozzi and is set to be released on Amazon Prime Video. "}
{"id": "732074", "revid": "244323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732074", "title": "Football Badgers", "text": ""}
{"id": "732075", "revid": "50729451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732075", "title": "Boglins", "text": "Boglins are a series of toy puppets distributed by Mattel. They were created by Tim Clarke, Maureen Trotto, and Larry Mass, and licensed by Seven Towns. The original run of Boglins was released in 1987, coinciding with a \"creatures\" craze that included Ghoulies, Critters, and Gremlins. Boglins were goblin-themed hand puppets made of flexible rubber and could be manipulated to represent speech and facial expressions. Several series of large and small Boglins were released until 1994, with additional aquatic, Halloween, and baby themed Boglins released later into the line. Small solid 'Mini-Boglins' were also produced, akin to the Kinkeshi figures also from the 1980s.\nOriginal Boglins toys.\nCreated by Jim Henson Company alumni Tim Clarke, Maureen Trotto and Larry Mass for the Seven Towns company in 1987, Boglins were initially brought to Coleco as a potential addition to their Sectaurs line; but were eventually marketed on their own by Mattel in 1987. The three original large scale Boglins were Dwork, Vlobb and Drool (Vlobb and Drool were called Plunk and Flurp in the UK), and were packaged in unique wooden crate-like boxes with bent plastic jail-bars. Although sporting small arms and a tail, these puppets mostly consisted of a large goblin-like head, drawing some inspiration from the giant Olmec heads of Ancient Mexico. Constructed from an artificial rubber known as Kraton, the initial models also featured glow in the dark eyes, which could be moved using a lever hidden inside the puppets, as well as the ability to wink/blink via a small plastic tab above each eye. Unlike many toylines of the 1980s there was no accompanying cartoon series or comic book for Boglins, with a backstory only mentioned in the \"Bogologist Field Notes\" on the back of the packaging. The notes establish the science of \"Bogology\", detailing how the creatures originated from a \"swampy bog that time forgot\", possibly a \"missing link\" to human personalities. The first release of large creatures were given the species name \"Boglinus Humungus\".\nSmaller Boglins (a subspecies known as \"Boglinus minimus\"), named Squidge, Shlump, Shlurp, Sponk, Squawk, and Squeel were also early releases into the line (in the UK these names were changed to Squit, Boink, Splatt, Blap, Klang, and Doink respectively). Lasting only two years in the United States, Boglins proved to be a bigger hit within the United Kingdom, distributed by the toy companies Ideal and Action GT. Other later Boglins included \"Talking Boglins\" (Glint and Kwirk), Aquatic-themed \"Soggy Boglins\" (Snish the Fish, Slogg the Frog, and Slobster the Lobster), \"Halloween Boglins\" (Blobkin and Bog o' Bones), \"Glow Boglins\" (Klang, Doink, and Squit), \"Action Boglins\" (Rasp, Gunge, Likk, Iball, and Spit), \"Bash'em Boglins\" (Splat and Skwish), and re-releases of the original larger Boglins: Dwork, Flurp, and Plunk, now including hair and \"wiggly tongues\". \"Baby Boglins\" were also produced, much smaller in size serving more as finger puppets as opposed to the full-sized hand puppets. These came inside of small plastic eggs and included Blap, Boink, Squit, Klang, Doink, Splat, Cratch, Flop, Lurp, Mork, Snot, and Suk; Boink, Klang, and Squit also came in \"Baby Action Boglins\" variants. Other variations included small hard-plastic \"Caged\" Boglins, as well as \"Acrobat Boglins\" made from a sticky elastomer similar to the octopus-shaped Wacky WallWalkers of the same era.\nMini Boglins.\nMini Boglins were first released in 1991 by Ideal. They were solid PVC with no movable parts (similar to Monster in My Pocket and M.U.S.C.L.E.), and were sold in randomized blister packs of 3, 5, 10, or 20 figures. With over 100 distinct figures of varying color-schemes, Mini Boglins were usable in a Boglins-themed game, that assigned various ranks to the figures, and divided them into 12 different tribes. Many models featured \"secret battle code symbols\" with in-game utility that would appear after it was heated and left to cool. There were also \"Slime Boglins\" that were Mini Boglins sold in plastic toilets filled with toy slime, a Mini Boglins Swamp carry case that unfolded to resemble a small landscape, a mail-away Mini Boglins cage and an additional 13th Mini Boglins tribe, \"The Cool Dudes\", only released in packages of Kellog's Frosties in the UK.\nRe-released Boglins.\nMattel rejuvenated the Boglins line in 2000 through Lansay, Awesome Toys and Vivid Imagination with two new series of puppets: large, electronic ones that talked, and several smaller ones that stuck out their tongues or spat water when squeezed. In 2016 there was a Boglin art show in New York by Clutter Arts featuring a Boglin mold painted by multiple artists. Boglins would make a return in 2017 under a licensing deal with Seven Towns and Clutter Magazine in limited run batches to the collector's market. In August 2022, there is an expected release of the Bat Boglins and King Sponk series, with a limited edition TheBoglins.com online exclusive Bat Boglin Orlock, which will be autographed and numbered by creator Tim Clarke. Pre-orders are now open. Clarke has made recent appearances at collector's conventions and other special events to promote and autograph Boglins."}
{"id": "732076", "revid": "3138265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732076", "title": "Girl Genius", "text": "Girl Genius is an ongoing comic book series turned webcomic, written and drawn by Phil and Kaja Foglio and published by their company Studio Foglio LLC under the imprint Airship Entertainment. The comic won the Hugo Award for Best Graphic Story three times, has been nominated for a Hugo Award for Best Professional Artist and twice for Eisner Awards, and won multiple WCCA awards.\n\"Girl Genius\" has the tagline of \"Adventure, Romance, Mad Science!\". It follows the main character Agatha Heterodyne (introduced in 1995) through an alternate-history Victorian-style \"steampunk\" setting, although elements veer from what is usually thought of as steampunk. Kaja Foglio describes it as \"gaslamp fantasy\" instead to suggest its more fantastic style.\nAs well as the comics, the Foglios have also written four Girl Genius novels, all published by Night Shade Books, and two games based on the world have been made.\nOverview.\nSetting.\nThe setting has been described as steampunk, with reviewers for \"Wired\" describing it as a \"mosh of Victorian era, magic and emerging technology\" and \"steampunk to the core\", but co-creator Kaja Foglio dislikes the term and instead coined the term \"gaslamp fantasy\" to describe the work. Kaja said in a blog post that when \"Girl Genius\" was first coming out, there was a comic called \"Steampunk\" and she wanted to avoid confusion. She added that \"we have no punk, and we have more than just steam, [so] using a different name seemed appropriate.\" \"Girl Genius\" differs from classic steampunk in that technology is not just limited to machines but also encompasses biology such as \"constructs\" \u2013 biological creations which range from Frankenstein-style creatures to talking cats and mouse-sized mammoths.\n\"Girl Genius\" is set in an alternate-universe Europe with Industrial Revolution-like surroundings, airships, and mad scientists called Sparks. These Sparks, who have incredible powers of invention, turned the Age of Enlightenment into a full-scale war that ravaged the continent, until Baron Wulfenbach brought an uneasy peace through force.\nPlot.\n\"Girl Genius\" tells the story of Agatha Clay, a student and apprentice at Transylvania Polygnostic University, whose experiments never work until she encounters an electromagnetic pulse and is robbed of her locket. This leads her to break free of an attempt to suppress her powers as a Spark and to hide that she is the long-lost daughter of legendary figures William \"Bill\" Heterodyne and Lucrezia Mongfish, and thus is the last of the prestigious and dreaded House of Heterodyne. Agatha Heterodyne learns to mix scientific genius, a streak of heroism, and an obsessive possessiveness for what she considers her own in order to claim her heritage and birthright while trying to remain safe from the many European powers trying to use her for their own ends.\nMajor characters.\nThe main and recurring characters of \"Girl Genius\" include:\nPublication history.\nThe idea for the style of \"Girl Genius\" came about when Kaja Foglio went through some of Phil's loose drawings, saying in an interview: \"I was going through all of Phil's old files and I was filing all of the old sketches, and I was coming across weird airships and cats in tophats with walking canes, and all of this wonderful... Victoriana sci-fi stuff... it was like 'Oh, this is everything I love!'\" Phil Foglio said, \"We wanted to do something with a strong female lead character. We both like the tropes associated with mad science, and I really enjoy drawing fiddly Victorian-style gizmos\".\nAgatha Heterodyne first appeared in print in 1995 in a GURPS sourcebook that the Foglios illustrated. Phil Foglio states that plotting for \"Girl Genius\" started in 1993, and it was first published in 2000. \"Girl Genius: The Secret Blueprints Vol. I\" was printed in January 2001, followed closely by the monochrome Issue 1 in February. In 2005 \"Girl Genius\" became a webcomic, and quarterly print publication of the comic ceased.\nThe first three printed issues (which make up Volume 1) were in black and white. Subsequent printed and web comics were in color. Volume 1 was inked by Brian Snoddy, Volumes 2 and 3 by Mark McNabb. Volume 4 by Laurie E. Smith, and all subsequent volumes by Cheyenne Wright. Wright also colored the comics of Volume 1; these colored versions were used for a new print edition of Volume 1 and have replaced the original comics on the website.\nIn an interview recorded in January 2008, shortly before they began releasing pages of volume 8 of \"Girl Genius\" on their web site, the Foglios stated that they expected the climax of Volume 8 to be the rough equivalent of \"the end of the first season,\" and that it would provide a logical break in case of author catastrophe and a fresh jumping-on point for new readers. However, this was an underestimate of the length of the remaining \"first season\": the end of Volume 13 turned out to be approximately halfway through the planned overall story arc. The \"second season\" of the series began March 3, 2014, with \"Act 2, Volume 1,\" after a two-month hiatus of the main story.\nPublished collections.\nThe webcomic, as well as the initial printed issues, have been collected into printed volumes, and in some cases those volumes have been collected into printed omnibuses. Unless stated in the notes below, the books reprint works first published as the webcomic.\n\"Girl Genius\" in other media.\n\"Girl Genius\" has been adapted, or proposed for adaptation, for other media:\nNovels.\nThe Foglios have written four Girl Genius prose novels, which follow the same story as the comics:\nThe prose novels are published by Night Shade Books in the US, and Titan Books in the UK.\nMovie.\nIn 2010 it was reported that Felicia D. Henderson had optioned the rights to \"Girl Genius\" and was adapting it into a movie. However, no movie has been produced.\nAwards.\n\"Girl Genius\" and its creators have won multiple Hugo Awards and Web Cartoonists' Choice Awards (WCCAs). They have also been nominated for further Hugo awards, WCCA awards, and Eisner Awards.\nReferences.\nPrimary sources.\nIn the text, these references are marked with a double dagger: \u2021"}
{"id": "732078", "revid": "125972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732078", "title": "Cuautla, Morelos", "text": "Cuautla (, meaning \"where the eagles roam\"), officially La heroica e hist\u00f3rica Cuautla, Morelos (\"The Heroic and Historic Cuautla, Morelos\") or H. H. Cuautla, Morelos, is a city and municipality in the Mexican state of Morelos, about 104 kilometers south of Mexico City. In the 2010 census the city population was 154,358. The municipality covers . Cuautla is the third most populous city in the state, after Cuernavaca and Jiutepec. The city was founded on April 4, 1829. The 2020 population figures were 187,118 inhabitants for the municipality and 157,336 inhabitants for the city of Cuatula.\nThe Cuautla Metropolitan Area, the second largest in Morelos, comprises the municipalities of Cuautla, Yautepec, Ayala, Yecapixtla, Atlatlahucan, and Tlayacapan. It covers , which represents 21.26% of the state's total area. The metropolitan population (2010) is 434,187.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic history.\nThe Olmec group who lived in Chalcatzingo (southeast of Cuautla) founded settlements in Cuautla, Tepalcingo, Jonacatepec (Las Pilas), Olintepec, Atlihuayan, Huaxtepec, Gualupita de Cuernavaca, Tlayacapan, etc. (Pi\u00f1a Chan y Plancarte).\nFive years after the conquest of \"Cuahunahu\u00e1c\" (Cuernavaca) in (1379 CE), Moctezuma Ilhuicamina conquered Huaxtepec (Oaxtepec), Yautepec, Tlayacapan and other towns of Morelos and Guerrero. With Huaxtepec, which was the prehispanic and colonial capital of the peoples of the \"Plan de Amilpas\", its 25-human settlements including \"Cuauhtl\u00e1n\", had to pay a tribute of 400 cotton blankets, 400 two-color valances, 400 bedspreads, 800 thin cotton blankets, 400 pairs of shorts (\"patees\"), 200 women's shirts, and 1,200 veils (\"mantillas\") every 80 days. In addition, they were required to contribute labor.\nSpanish conquest and colonial period.\nThe \"Plan de Amilpas\" including Cuautla was conquered by Captain Gonzalo de Sandoval on March 14, 1521. In 1543 New Spain was organized into four provinces: Michoac\u00e1n, M\u00e9xico, Coatzacoalcos, and Las Mixtecas; the present territory of Morelos was part of the Mexico province.\nThe church and monastery of San Diego were built between 1560 and 1580. The church is relatively small and austere, although there is a beautiful cupola on the south side. The fa\u00e7ade of the church is made of pink granite with well-defined bases, columns, and cornices. The small, two-level belltower is square and simple. The monetary is high and formal; it may have been built after the church. The church is unique in that it faces the east, there is no real atrium, and there are neither \"capillas posas\" nor an open chapel. Construction of the church of Santo Domingo also began in the middle of the 16th century, but there is little information on it.\nAfter the conquest, Indigenous lands were confiscated, mostly for sugar cane plantations and mills (\"trapiches\"). Despite Indigenous protests, Viceroy Gaspar de Z\u00fa\u00f1iga ruled in favor of the colonists on July 5, 1603. In 1646 the province of M\u00e9xico became the \"Real Audiencia;\" Cuautla became an \"alcaldia\" (mayoralty) belonging to the Intendencia of Puebla.\nIndependence &amp; 19th century.\nAfter a number of successful battles, General Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Morelos arrived in Cuautla in December 1811. On February 19, 1812, Spanish General F\u00e9lix Mar\u00eda Calleja began the 72-day Siege of Cuautla. Morelos was accompanied by Leonardo Bravo, Mariano Matamoros, Hermenegildo Galeana, Nicol\u00e1s Bravo, and Manuel de Ordiera. 12-year-old Narciso Mendoza, known as the \"Ni\u00f1o Artillero\" (Child Gunner) is remembered for stopping an advance of royalist troops by setting off a cannon. Morelos and his army were able to break out on May 2, 1812.\nCuautla was designated a \"Heroic City\" (\"Heroica Ciudad de Morelos\") on April 4, 1829, while Felipe B. Montero was \"Presidente Municipal\" (mayor).\nAn 1865 photograph shows the construction of the second floor of the \"Palacio Municipal\" (city hall) in 1865. The building was burned during the Revolution.\nThe railroad station was opened on June 18, 1881, next to the \"Convento de San Diego\". Tourist trains continue to operate along the line.\nRevolution &amp; 20th century.\nAs a young man, Emiliano Zapata was concerned about land seizures in Anenecuilco, his hometown. In May 1911 he answered Francisco I. Madero's call to arms against President Porfirio D\u00edaz. After minor battles in Chietla, Iz\u00facar, Metepec Atlixco, Yautepec, and Jonacatepec, he arrived at Cuautla on May 11, 1911. With 4,000 or 5,000 troops he surrounded the city, and the week-long Battle of Cuautla (1911) began. The battle was a major turning point in the Mexican Revolution, as Porfirio D\u00edaz said the battle convinced him to sign the Treaty of Ciudad Ju\u00e1rez and resign.\nNearly seven years later, in April 1919, Colonel Jesus Guajardo assassinated Zapata, apparently under orders of President Venustiano Carranza in Hacienda Chinameca, Ayala. His body was placed on a mule and left on the street before he was brought to Cuautla for burial.\nThe city hall was burned during the Battle of Cuautla in 1911; the bell \"Nuestra Se\u00f1ora de Dolores\" was transferred from the Church of Guadalupita on February 19, 2017 when the city hall was restored.\n21st century.\nSix people, including an 11-year-old child, were killed in the September 17, 2017 Puebla earthquake.\nJesus Corona Damian of \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" (Together we will make history coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018.\nTetelcingo was scheduled to become an autonomous municipality on January 1, 2019, but Cuautla authorities objected.\nAs of May 4, 2020, there were 505 infections and 59 deaths in the state of Morelos and 62 confirmed infections from the COVID-19 pandemic in Cuautla. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Cuautla reported 224 confirmed cases and 34 deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Cuautla reported an increase of 137 new cases from January 12 to 14, 2021, making 1,602 cases in all, second highest in the state. On March 8 Cuautla became the third municipality in Morelos to vaccinate senior citizens (60+).\nIrving Eduardo Solano Vera (\"El Profe\"), said to be the leader of the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (CJNG), was arrested in Colonia Santa Rosa on February 18, 2021.\nCulture.\nFood.\nRich stews with green or red \"guacamole\", the green mole of \"pipi\u00e1n\" with tamales, and cecina. Also \"huitlacoche\", \"molotes\", a squash flower soup (\"sopa de flor de calabaza\"), or a mushroom cream soup, or sopa Azteca. Also available is Pollo Morelense, chicken with peanut sauce, flower pancakes, and broken beans (\"frijoles quebrados\").\nArt.\n\"Motivos sobre el agua\", (Motifs on water) is a fresco painted by Olga Costa and Jos\u00e9 Ch\u00e1vez Morado, hidden inside the Agua Hedionda Spa. There is a group of plump mermaids playing musical instruments at the bottom of the sea. One carries the zither, another the cello, and one a type of shell or tambourine. They are surrounded by fish, shells, corals, and starfish. It was made in 1952.\nDance.\n\"Las Tetelcingas\" is a traditional dance dance from the indigenous town of Tetelcingo.\nTypical dress: the authentic suit is that of \"Tetelcinga\", which consists of a huipil (tunic) and a tangle of thick dark blue cloth, tied at the waist with wide folds by means of a blue and red sash, a blue skirt, sandals, with a headband made of flowers. The women's hair is worn long, either loose or braided. Eliseo Arag\u00f3n said that half a century ago some women used to color their hair blue, red, or green, in the Olmec style. It is also said that drinking cups were used on the head as an ornament. The men's costume consists of white cotton pants tied with a red sash, a long-sleeved cotton shirt, a straw \"sombrero\" (hat), a bandana, and sandals; however, there are photographs in which the natives of Tetelcingo wear a kind of \"jorongo\" (sleeveless poncho) and short leather pants.\nEconomy.\nAmong the most important activities in Cuautla you will find:\nThe Cuautla Industrial Park, located in Ayala, covers and is the second largest in Morelos. Most of the companies are related to the automotive industry. The largest employers are \"Saint-Gobainl\", (glass), \"Sekurit\" (windshields), and \"Temic\" (industrial parts).\nRiverside, California is a Sister city.\nTransportation.\nLocal buses or \"combis\" serve Cuautla and nearby municipalities. Taxis and ride sharing are available.\nCuautla has several bus terminals for long-distance travel:\nThere is no regularly scheduled train service. A tourist train, a remnant of the Interoceanic Railway of Mexico, runs occasionally.\nCuautla does not have an airport; flights are available at Cuernavaca Airport, Mexico City International Airport, and Puebla International Airport.\nCommunities.\nEducation.\nAs of 2014\u20132015, there are 24 daycare centers with 508 children, 110 preschools with 533 teachers and 7,545 pupils, 101 elementary schools (grades 1\u20136) with 1,225 teachers and 22,754 pupils, and 42 middle schools (grades 7\u20139) with 641 teachers and 11,354 pupils\nAttractions.\nThe area is a tourist-friendly region with abundant hot springs and health spas/resorts. It features many archeological sites such as Chalcatzingo and Indigenous communities such as the Tepoztl\u00e1n and Tetelcingo among others.\nArchitecture.\nThe vast majority of buildings in Cuautla are made of brick or cinder blocks, framed by reinforced concrete posts which in turn support reinforced concrete beams, reinforced concrete floors and roofs. Also, many homes in this city, are made with only cinder blocks, cement, and a tin roof. Many of these homes also lack electricity and running water. Nearly all homes have a \"tinaco\", which is a large plastic water tank on the roof as well as a concrete \"cisterna\" below ground. Both are refilled regularly at the same time by the city. When necessary the water is pumped from the \"cisterna\" to the \"Tinaco\". These water tanks let water out into pipes which have valves that are opened as needed to wash clothes and dishes or to bathe or flush the toilet. A single valve is located at the \"tinaco\"to be closed if necessary.\nGeography.\nLocation.\nCuautla is located in the eastern Morelos, with the geographic coordinates 18\u00b049'N and 99\u00b001'E and an altitude of 1,294 meters (4,245 feet) above sea level. Cuautla borders the municipalities of Atlatlahucan, Ayala, Yautepec, and Yecapixtla.\nSize.\nCuautla covers roughly , which is about 3% of the overall size of Morelos.\nClimate.\nThe city is quite warm year-round.\nIn the winter, there is a slight decrease in both the daytime and nighttime temperatures, and because of Cuautla's relative proximity south of the Tropic of Cancer and its altitude (about above sea level), the nighttime temperatures year-round usually average about . On the other hand, because Cuautla is somewhat close to the Equator, temperatures year-round tend to reach into the mid-80s to lower 90s\u00b0F (upper 20s\u00b0C to the lower 30s\u00b0C) even during the winter, and in spring on many days the daytime temperatures may reach well into the upper 90s\u00b0F (lower 30s\u00b0C).\nReligion.\nThe dominant religion in Cuautla is Roman Catholicism. There are 22 registered churches in the municipal area."}
{"id": "732080", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732080", "title": "Hereditary condition", "text": ""}
{"id": "732081", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732081", "title": "Emmet John Hughes", "text": "Emmet John Hughes (December 26, 1920 \u2013 September 18, 1982) was a foreign bureau chief for and article editor for Time-Life and an aide and speechwriter for U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower. His is also known for his 1962 memoir \"The Ordeal of Power\", a scathing review that questioned Eisenhower's political smarts and depicted Eisenhower as ill-suited for the White House.\nCareer.\nHughes was born on December 26, 1920, in Newark, New Jersey. Throughout his life, he was a devout Catholic.\nAfter serving in the U.S. Army from 1942 to 1946, Hughes first worked as a press attach\u00e9 at the United States Embassy in Spain. He thereafter was the bureau chief in Rome for Time-Life International in 1947 then in Berlin in 1948. The following year he transferred to New York where he was the editor for \"Life\" magazine (1949-1953), the special European correspondent (1953-1956), the editor of \"Fortune\" magazine (1956-1957), and the chief foreign correspondent (1957-1960).\nHe was later a \"Newsweek\" columnist and editorial consultant (1963-1968).\nDuring the Eisenhower administration, Hughes was an aide to and speechwriter for the president. Hughes wrote Eisenhower's \"I shall go to Korea\" speech, which helped solidify the 1952 election. Hughes then accompanied the president-elect on the promised trip to Korea.\nAfter criticizing the Eisenhower administration in the late 1950s, Hughes published \"The Ordeal of Power\". This break with Eisenhower led Hughes to begin a new relationship as the political advisor for the Rockefeller family, and worked as a political advisor and speechwriter for Governor Nelson Rockefeller during his unsuccessful presidential bid in 1968.\nIn 1969, he was asked to give the first John Courtney Murray Lecture sponsored by \"America\".\nFrom 1970 until his death, Hughes served as professor of political science at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University.\nHughes graduated summa cum laude from Princeton University in 1941. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. His first year of graduate studies at Columbia University was cut short by World War II.\nHughes had a son (John) with his first wife Mariefrances Pfeiffer, two daughters (Mary Larkin and Kathleen Freeman) with Eileen Lanouette, and two more daughters (Caitlin and Johanna) with Katherine Nouri. Hughes died in his home in Princeton, New Jersey."}
{"id": "732082", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732082", "title": "Antidiabetic drugs", "text": ""}
{"id": "732085", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732085", "title": "Michael Houser", "text": "Michael Houser (January 6, 1962\u00a0\u2013 August 10, 2002) was an American guitarist known as a founding member and lead guitarist of the band Widespread Panic. He appeared on seven studio albums during his 16-year tenure with the band from 1986 till 2002. He is also featured on 4 live albums by Widespread Panic as well as several archive releases, live video concerts and compilations. Two solo albums by Houser were released posthumously.\nMusical career.\nMichael \"Mikey\" Houser was born in Boone, North Carolina. He graduated from Hixson High School in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and became a founding member of Widespread Panic in 1986 while attending the University of Georgia with John Bell. Michael's adolescent nickname was \"Panic\" due to his then frequent panic attacks, and this moniker later became the inspiration for the band's name.\nWidespread Panic's large rhythm section, and John Bell's virtuosity as a rhythm guitarist, allowed Michael to pursue an atmospheric lead guitar style that often lingered behind the primary melodies. His predominant use of the volume pedal caused him to spend most of his performance time balanced on one leg, this would eventually lead to circulation problems causing his left leg to become numb. In 1996, during an acoustic tour known as the \"Sit and Ski\" tour, he was reminded of how much more comfortable and accurate his playing was while he was seated. Subsequently, Houser returned to playing all shows seated in 1997. His playing style used a volume pedal for sonic effect, rather than just for volume control.\nWidespread Panic always shared writing credits for all of their songs during the Houser era, but he wrote many of the band's standards, including \"Pleas,\" \"Porch Song,\" \"Airplane,\" \"Ain't Life Grand,\" \"The Waker,\" \"Impossible,\" \"Pilgrims,\" \"You Got Yours,\" \"This Part of Town,\" \"Vacation,\" \"Postcard,\" and others. \nDiagnosed with pancreatic cancer in early 2002, he died on August 10 of that year, in Athens, Georgia, at the age of 40. A solo album of his instrumentals entitled \"Door Harp\" was released after his death, and was followed by \"Sandbox\" in 2006. He is survived by his wife Barbette and two children, Waker and Eva.\nWidespread Panic has continued to tour and record after Houser's death, as was his wish.\nEquipment.\nHouser played a discontinued Fender Telecaster Deluxe Plus. This guitar is a Telecaster body with Stratocaster hardware. Houser purchased his first Telecaster Deluxe Plus second hand in 1991. A guitar lasted him about five years, needing to be replaced \"'cause [he] sweated into [them] so much\". Fender made two custom-remake replacements with his preferred discontinued \"Firestorm\" finish. Houser claimed of the three guitars, \"they're as close as modern science can get\".\nThese guitars had Lace Sensor pickups (a Blue at the neck, and a dual Red at the bridge with a mini switch to split them), a Strat-style tremolo behind the metal place surrounding the bridge pickups, and a roller nut. Houser didn\u2019t like to use a whammy bar, preferring to pull up on the tail of the bridge instead. The mini switch is in between the volume and tone pots. This allows for a wider array of tones than a standard Telecaster. On most Telecasters, you can choose neck, bridge, or both pickups simultaneously. With the dual Reds in the bridge being splittable, you can choose neck, bridge dual, bridge single, or combinations of neck and dual bridge as well as neck and single bridge.\nHouser's signature sound was also due to his use of Soldano SLO-100 heads through a Mesa/Boogie Quarterback 2x12 Cabinet. He played medium gauge D'Addario strings.\nHis effects included the Soldano Surf Box Spring Reverb / Tremolo / Vibrato unit, a Boss GE-7 Equalizer, the Ernie Ball 6166 Mono Volume Pedal, a TC Electronic TCF Chorus/Flanger and a Kendrick Model 1000 Tube Reverb."}
{"id": "732086", "revid": "36623386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732086", "title": "Emiliano Zapata, Morelos", "text": "Emiliano Zapata is a city in the west-central part of the Mexican state of Morelos. It stands at . The city serves as the county seat (\"sede municipal\") for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The municipality is the sixth largest in the state of Morelos, with a 2020 census population of 107,053 inhabitants, and has it an area of 64.983\u00a0km2 (25.09 sq mi). The city of Emiliano Zapata had 64,084 inhabitants in 2020. The city was previously known as both San Francisco Zacualpan and San Vicente Zacualpan. It was renamed in honor of Mexican Revolutionary Emiliano Zapata.\nSubsidiary county seats (\"ayudantias\") are: \"Tres de Mayo\", (population 20,950); known principally for its ceramic, \"Tezoyuca\" (population 5,501); where a cement factory and a water park are located, \"Tetecalita\" (population 3,963), \"Tepetzingo\" (population 2,292) and \"Tetecalita\" (population 3,963).\nHistory.\nPrehispanic History.\nOral tradition states that the founders of \"Tzacualpan\" were originally from Tepoztl\u00e1n, Tejalpa, and Xitepeptl (both in modern Jiutepec). It is said that an ambitious peasant fell in love with a royal princess, much to the rage of her father. The young man was forced to pay high tributes and he was forced to move elsewhere, finally settling on a plain between a bald hill and a hill of the gods. With time this area became a part of a powerful lord who fought against the Lord of Cuauhnahuac in 1389.\nColonial Period.\nAfter the conquest in 1521, Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s was named Marqu\u00e9s de Oaxaca; his lands included present-day Morelos. In 1534 the territory of Morelos fell under the jurisdiction of the Province of Mexico City. The territory that today makes up the modern municipality of \"Emiliano Zapata\" was known as Tzacualpan, and the Spanish added the name San Francisco. Since it was near the Franciscan monastery of Santiago de Xiutepec, this area came to be called \"San Francisco Tzacualpan\". Don Pedro Cort\u00e9s, 4th Marquess of the Valley of Oaxaca, founded the hacienda of San Vicente Tzacualpan at that time.\nIn 1618 Diego de Alarc\u00f3n was granted of land, where he established a rich sugar cane hacienda. This became the center of the town.\n19th Century.\nMexico became independent in 1821, and the present state of Morelos became part of the State of Mexico. In 1840, the town was renamed San Vicente Zacualpan in honor of the hacienda owner, Governor Vicente de Eguia.\nIn 1856, the hacienda of San Vicente changed hands; owned by Don P\u00edo Bermejillo and administered by his brother, Nicol\u00e1s. Not far, near the Hill of Sayula, was the Hacienda of Dolores, which was dependent upon San Vicente. The cattle of Trinidad Carrillo, who rented land from Hacienda Dolores, damaged some of the sugar cane of Hacienda Dolores. Nicol\u00e1s Bermejillo kicked Carrillo off the land, and the latter vowed revenge. Enlisting the aid of Nicol\u00e1s Leite and Mat\u00edas Navarrete, on December 18, 1856, they attacked San Vicente and killed four high-ranking men; Bermejillo was not present. In September 1858, the killers were tried for assault, robbery, and murder at the haciendas of Chiconcuac and San Vicente.\nMorelos became a state in 1869.\n20th century.\nLocal residents who fought in the Mexican Revolution (1910-1921) included General Modesto Rangel and the soldiers Ricardo Catal\u00e1n, Venancio Jim\u00e9nez, Francisco Mariaca, Natividad V\u00e1zquez, Santos Delgado, Teodulo Olivan, Feliciano Flores, Refugio Angelino, Javier Montes De Oca, Mart\u00edn Batalla, and Aureliano Trujillo.\nIn 1930 the government decreed that no community could use a saint's name, so San Vicente Zacualpan became \"Emiliano Zapata\" in honor of the Revolutionary hero. President \u00c1lvaro Obreg\u00f3n made a historic visit in 1922. Post-revolutionary land partitioning ended in 1927.\nGovernor Vicente Estrada Cajigal established the municipalities Atlatlahucan and Emiliano Zapata on December 15, 1932; the town of Zapata designated the capital of the latter. The villages of Tezoyuca, Tepetzingo, and Tetecalita were part of the municipality.\nDrinking water was provided to the community in 1935. The former hacienda of San Vicente was turned over to the people in 1942. The Rice Cooperative was established in 1944, and the San Vicente Agricultural Association was established in 1963.\n21st century.\nThere were two major earthquakes in 2017. The Chiapas earthquake on September 7 did not cause any damage in Morelos, but the 2017 Puebla earthquake centered in Axochiapan twelve days later killed over 300 people and caused physical damage to 20,000 buildings. In Zapata, 142 homes were destroyed and 248 were damaged.\nAna Olivia Albarran Salazar of PVEM (Green Party) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the July 1, 2018 election.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020; eight cases were reported in Emiliano Zapata. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Zapata reported 42 confirmed cases and five deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Emiliano Zapata reported 170 cases, 136 recuperations, and 28 deaths as of August 31. Three hundred fourteen cases were reported on December 27.\nSix men were killed and one woman was wounded in a shooting by unknown assailants in Colonia 3 de Mayo on June 6, 2020. Police officer Rodolfo Mart\u00ednez S\u00e1nchez was assassinated in broad daylight in Colonia Tres de Mayo on December 27, 2020, in apparent revenge for a traffic ticket.\nFamous people.\nThe following is a list of famous people from Emiliano Zapata:\nGeography.\nLocation, area, and land use.\nEmiliano Zapata is one of 36 municipalities the state of Morelos, located in the center of the state at Emiliano Zapata borders the municipalities of Temixco and Jiutepec to the north; Jiutepec, Yautepec, and Tlaltizap\u00e1n to the east; Tlaltizap\u00e1n and Xochitepec to the south; Xochitepec and Temixco to the west. It has an area of 68.37\u00a0km2, 1.4% of the total territory of Morelos. 3,362 hectares are used for agriculture, 1,196 hectares for livestock, 930 hectares for forests and 16 hectares for industrial use. 3,168 hectares are ejido property, 508 hectares are communal property, and 466 private hectares are privately owned.\nClimate.\nEmiliano Zapata has a tropical climate, Aw according to the K\u00f6ppen climate classification. Summers have much more rain than winters. The temperature averages 23.2\u00a0\u00b0C (\u00b0F) and rainfall averages 917\u00a0mm per year. May is the hottest month and January is the coldest.\nRelief and waterways.\nThe municipality is located between two hills: \"Montenegro\" on the east and \"Texcal\" on the west. The highest elevation is \"Cueva del Aire\" hill with an altitude of 1,650 meters (5,413\u00a0ft.) above sea level. \"Sierra Madre del Sur\" has an altitude of 1,240 meters.\n\"Las Fuentes River\" and a branch of the \"Apatlaco River\" flow from north to south. The \"Agua Salada River\" and the Yautepec River also cross the municipality. Other streams are \"Palo Blanco\", \"La Rosa\" and \"Roque\". There are five large wells.\nFlora and fauna.\nVegetation is mostly low deciduous forest of warm climate; higuerilla, black amate (acacia), guaje, jarilla, cactus, and carriage. Jacaranda, tabachin, casahuate, ceiba, and bougainvillea are common.\nMammals include skunk, rabbit, hare, cacomixtle, opossum, bat, badger, armadillo, and coyote. These last three in danger of extinction. Birds include flag bird, chachalaca, magpie, buzzard, crow, and owl.\nNatural resources.\nLimestone serves as raw material for lime and cement factories.\nEconomy.\nEmiliano Zapata is largely agricultural with 1,282 hectares of irrigated land and 120 hectares of rainfed agriculture. The most important crops are sugarcane, rice, corn, beans, peanuts, squash, alfalfa, floriculture, and greenhouses. Another sector that contributes to the economy is livestock through the production of cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses. The industrial sector developed in recent years, making a large part of the municipal territory is considered an important area for trade and services. Given this, it must be said that the construction industry has shown outstanding growth in Emiliano Zapata, which is due to the development of subdivisions and condominiums of medium and residential type.\nThere are more than 400 wineries and commercial premises of all kinds that offer services, such as grocery stores, furniture stores, pharmacies, clothing, hardware stores, materials for construction, stationery, food, restaurants, hotels, and more. The tourism sector is small, but ceramics and handicrafts are sold."}
{"id": "732088", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732088", "title": "John More (major)", "text": ""}
{"id": "732089", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732089", "title": "Huitzilac", "text": "Huitzilac is a city and municipality in the Mexican state of Morelos. It stands at 19\u00b001\u203242\u2033N 99\u00b016\u203202\u2033W and at an altitude of 2,561\u00a0m (8,402\u00a0ft) above sea level.\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. With a 2020 census population of 5,347 inhabitants, it is the second-largest city (locality) in the municipality, after the town of Tres Mar\u00edas.\nThe municipality reported 24,515 inhabitants in the 2020 census.\nThe name is a Spanish-language adaptation of a Nahuatl toponym meaning \"in the water of the humming-birds\".\nThe municipality.\nThe municipality is one of 17 municipalities that border Mexico City. It borders the capital city's southside boroughs of Milpa Alta and Tlalpan. Ulises Pardo Bastida of \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" (Together we will make history coalition) was elected municipal president (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018.\nTowns and villages.\nThe largest localities (cities, towns, and villages) are:\nHistory.\nDuring the Prehispanic era, Huitzilac was a part of the domain of Cuahanahuac (Cuernavaca). After the Conquest (1521), it became a part of the \"Marquesado del Valle de Oaxaca.\" The town was an important stagecoach stop on the route from Mexico City to Cuernavaca, but this changed with the construction of the railroad in 1897. huitzilac (Dec 14, 2018)\nDuring the Revolution, General Genovevo de la O fought against the government. Huitizlac was burned in April 1912, and de la O was able to mobilize 4,000 men plus artillery to join in the fight to liberate Cuernavaca. Thanks to the popularity of the \"Ej\u00e9rcito Libertador del Sur\" in this region, Huitizalc and Santa Mar\u00eda Ahuacatitl\u00e1n were able to forget their old rivalries.\nIron crosses have been erected at Km 47 of the federal Mexico City-Cuernavaca highway to commemorate Francisco R. Serrano and his associates, Daniel and Miguel A. Peralta, Carlos Ariza, Carlos Vidal, Rafael Mart\u00ednez de Escobar, Cecilio Gonz\u00e1lez, Enrique Monteverde, Alonso Capetillo Robles, Augusto Pe\u00f1a, Antonio J\u00e1uregui, Jos\u00e9 Valle Arce, Octavio Almada, and Ernesto Noriega M\u00e9ndez. On October 3, 1927, Serrano (a candidate for president) and his men were assassinated on the orders of President \u00c1lvaro Obreg\u00f3n. Mart\u00edn Luis Guzman describes the incident in his novel, \"La sombra del caudillo.\"\nOn June 18, 2019, twelve Federal Police agents were sentenced to 34 years of prison for the August 24, 2012 murder of two CIA agents in Tres Mar\u00edas.\nAs of May 4, 2020, there were 505 infections and 59 deaths in the state of Morelos and four confirmed infections from the COVID-19 pandemic in Huitzilac. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Huitzilac reported eleven confirmed cases and three deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Toxic medical waste was found at Km 49 of the Mexican Federal Highway 95D near the monument to Jos\u0117 Mar\u00eda Morelos y Pav\u00f3n in Tres Marias; four toll collectors who work for Federal Roads and Bridges and Related Services, (CAPUFE) in Morelos have died from the coronavirus. Huitzilac reported 30 cases, 24 recuperations, and six deaths from the virus as of August 31. Sixty-four cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nCulture.\nThe most important festival in Huitzilac is celebrated on March 19, in honor of the town's patron saint, San Jos\u00e9. An image of St. Joseph disappeared from the church during the Mexican Revolution and was recovered on September 1, 1921, so there is a festival to remember this event. There are also celebrations during Holy Week (March or April) and in honor of Our Lady of Guadalupe on December 12. The Holy Trinity is celebrated in \"Fierro del Toro\" on January 1. San Buen Aventura is celebrated on July 15 in Coajomulco. St. Joseph is also honored in \"Tres Marias\" on March 19.\nTraditions.\nPulque and cured fruit drinks are prepared in the area. Local craftsmen make wooden furniture. Chinelos dance at local festivals.\nGeography.\nmorelos.gob/huitzilac\nHuitzilac has an area of 190\u00a0km2 (73 miles2), which represents 3.84% of the territory in the state. The average altitude is 2,500\u00a0m (8,200\u00a0ft.) above sea level.\nClimate.\nThe municipality has a subtropical humid climate with a well-defined winter. The average annual temperature is 12\u00a0\u00b0C (53.6\u00a0\u00b0F) and the average annual precipitation is 1,358\u00a0mm (53.4\").\nTerrain.\nThere are many mountain peaks in the area, 2,250 or more meters above sea level.\nLakes &amp; Rivers.\nThe Lakes of Zempoala and several intermittent streams.Exploring Mexico: Zempoala\nFlora &amp; Fauna.\nThe flora consists mostly of oak and pine forests. The fauna includes white-tail deer, raccoons, skunks, squirrels, volcano rats, mountain lions, quail, mountain hens, woodpeckers, blue magpies, goldfinches, rattlesnakes, garter snakes, frogs, and lizards. Trout live in the streams."}
{"id": "732093", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732093", "title": "Jantetelco", "text": "Jantetelco, officially Jantetelco de Matamoros, is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos.\n The city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The municipality reported 17,238 inhabitants in the year 2015 census.\nThe name Jantetelco comes from Nahuatl words meaning \"hill of adobe buildings\" and should be spelled \"Xamtetelko\".\" Remains of adobe foundations have been found at the entrance to the town. A 59 cm high goddess of corn, \"Xochiketzal\", and a circular 15 cm by 25 cm garland and the sign for X\u00f3chitl (\"flower\") have been found behind the church. \"Matamoros\" refers to Padre Mariano Matamoros, hero of the Mexican War of Independence.\nHistory.\nDuring the prehispanic era, the area was part of Huaxtepec (Oaxtepec), and during the colonial era, it belonged to Cuautla de Amilpas. The village priest in 1811 was Mariano Matamoros, who joined Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Morelos in Izucar and during the Siege of Cuautla. On October 12, 1874, the town was renamed \"Jantetelco de Matamoros\" by Governor Francisco Leyva. In 1885 Matamoros's room was made a museum, called \"El Dormitorio\".\nWhile the September 7, 2017 earthquake caused little significant damage in Morelos, the Axochiapan earthquake twelve days later killed 74 people in Morelos and damaged nearly all the colonialera buildings. In Jantetelco, 281 homes were destroyed and 191 others were damaged.\nJuan Felipe Dominguez Robles of \"Partido Humanista de Morelos\" (Humanistic Party of Morelos) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018. On February 23, 2019, opponents of the construction of a thermoelectric plant in Huexca, Yecapixtla burned ballots that were slated to be used in a referendum on the proposed plant.\nWhile the state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020, no cases were reported in Jantetelco. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. Forty-one cases were reported in the municipality on December 27, 2020. Vaccinations for senior citizens (60+) are scheduled to begin on March 12, 2021.\nFifteen people died in Axochiapan, Jantetelco, and Tepalcingo due to adulterated alcohol on Mother's Day. The state office of DIF sent food and water to vulnerable groups of people in eight municipalities including Jantetelco on May 26.\nCommunities.\n\"Jantetelco\" is the municipal seat and has a population of 4,645. It is located at 1,430 meters above sea level, 75.3\u00a0km from Cuernavaca, and 130.2\u00a0km from Mexico City. Its main economic activities are agriculture (sorghum, corn, beans) and ranching (cattle, goats, poultry, and pigs). Principal festivals are June 29, in honor of \"San Pedro Ap\u00f3stol\" and December 13, the uprising of Father Mariano Matamoros.\n\"Amayuca\" has a population of 5,287. Its main economic activities are agriculture (sorghum, corn, beans) and ranching (cattle, goats, poultry, and pigs). Clay pottery is produced. Santiago Apostle is honored on July 25. It is 2.1\u00a0km from Jantetelco.\n\"Chalcatzingo\" has a population of 2,449. The community is Nahuatl in origin. It is mostly an agricultural community (sorghum, corn, beans) and livestock are raised. Tourism to the Chalcatzingo archaeological site and the sale of miniature \"cuescomates\" (traditional silos) are also important economic activities. San Mateo Evangelista is honored on September 21. It is 3.7\u00a0km from Jantetelco.\n\"Tenango\" and \"Santa Ana\" have a population of 1,856. Their main economic activities are agriculture (sugarcane, sorghum, corn) and livestock. The former hacienda of Tenango is a cultural attraction. Santa Ana is honored on July 26.\n\"San Antonio Esperanza\" is an agricultural (rice, sorghum, corn) and livestock raising (cattle, goats, poultry, and pigs) community. The feast of St. Anthony of Padua is June 13.\nCulture.\nThe Dominican convent of \"San Pedro Ap\u00f3stol\" was built in the 16th century. There are churches dedicated to St. Matthew, St. Francis, St. James the Greater (Apostol), and St. Clara. The ex-hacienda of Tenango is outside the town.\nThe archaeological zone of Chalcatzingo is nearby. This site belongs to the Preclassic Medium period, 1500-350 B.C. It is one of the most important settlements influenced by the Olmecs, along with Teopantecuanitl\u00e1n. Chalcatzingo development paralleled that of La Venta, evidenced by its petrographs (stone carvings).\nThere is a fair in honor of St. Peter the Apostol on June 29, celebrated with bands and Chinelos (dancers). Traditional foods include beef cecina with fresh cream and pork cecina. A candy made of crystallized milk and peanuts is also made.\nGeography.\nLocation, altitude, and area.\nJantetelco is located 18\u00b042'30\" North and 98\u00b046'12\" West at a height of above sea level. The municipality of Temoac is north, Axochiapan is south, Jonacatepec is west, and the State of Puebla is east. It is east of Cuernavaca, 130.2 (80.9 miles) south of Mexico City, and southwest of Puebla.\nJantetelco has an area of , which represents 2.10% of the total state. It is divided politically in 10 locations.\nRelief and waterways.\nJantetelco is located between hills and ravines of sedimentary trawls. In the center of the municipality, the hills of Jantetelco reach an altitude of and that of Chalcatzingo reaches . The rest of the territory consists of sedimentary plains.\nThis municipality is crossed by \"Amatzinac, Tenango, Los Santos\", and \"Tepalcingo\" Rivers. Streams are plentiful.\nClimate.\nThe climate in Jantetelco is tropical. In winter, there is much less rainfall in Jantetelco than in summer. This location is classified as Aw by K\u00f6ppen and Geiger. The temperature averages . Precipitation averages 865\u00a0mm (33.7\").\nFlora and Fauana.\nVegetation in Jantetelco is mostly low deciduous forest of warm climate: Jacaranda, tabach\u00edn, casahuate, ceiba and bougainvillea. Animals include raccoon, badger, skunk, armadillo, hare, common rabbit, coyote, mountain lion, weasel, cacomixtle, opossum, bat, chachalaca, magpie, buzzard, crow, and owl.\nLand use.\nThere are for agricultural use, for livestock use, and for forestry use. are ejido property, communal property and private property."}
{"id": "732094", "revid": "45957157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732094", "title": "Jiutepec", "text": "Jiutepec is a city and its surrounding municipality in the Mexican state of Morelos.\nThe name \"Jiutepec\" comes from the Nahuatl name \"Xiutepetl\", which means \"the precious stones hill\".\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. Over recent decades Jiutepec has merged into neighboring Cuernavaca so that on its northeasterly edges it forms one geographically contiguous urban area with the latter. The Cuernavaca metropolitan area not only includes these two municipalities, but also Temixco, Emiliano Zapata, Xochitepec, and Tepoztl\u00e1n municipalities, for a total population of 1,027,562 (February 2018 figure also includes Huitzilac and Tlaltizap\u00e1n).\nAccording to the 2015 census the city of Jiutepec had a population of 153,704 while the municipality reported 214,137 inhabitants. The city and the municipality rank second in population in the state, behind the city and municipality of Cuernavaca. The municipality has an area of .\nHistory.\nPrehispanic history.\nNauhuatl-speaking people arrived in the state of Morelos in the 12th and 13th centuries, where they formed large, important domains such as \"Xiut\u00e9petl.\" In A.D. 1389, Xiut\u00e9petl fought a war against Cuauhanauhuac, Tetlama, and Yautepec. In 1425, Aztec emperor Ixc\u00f3atl conquered Jiutepec.\nConquest &amp; colonialism.\nJiutepec amassed troops to fight Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s on April 11, 1521, but they were defeated. Cortes rested for two days in Jiutepec before attacking Cuernavaca on April 13. During the colonial period, Jiutepec came under the jurisdiction of the \"Marquesado del Valle de Oaxaca\". During the colonial period, four haciendas (San Gaspar, Atlacomulco, Dolores, and San Vicente) and several sugar mills were established. In 1807 there was a rebellion against don Vicente Egu\u00eda, and his lands were given to the people of Leyva.\nIndependence &amp; 19th century.\nAfter Mexican War of Independence, upon creation of the State of Mexico, Jiutepec became a municipality in the District of Cuernavaca. There were constant conflicts between the haciendas and the peasants over land and water during the 19th century. Hacienda San Vincente put so much pressure on the people of Amatitlan that they had to abandon their town; in 1852 the governor of the State of Mexico seized lands from the people of Jietepec to give to the Hacienda of Atlacomulco.\nRevolution &amp; 20th century.\nInhabitants of Jiutepec were extensively involved in the Mexican Revolution of 1910. In 1914 the Hacienda of Atlacomulco served as headquarters for the Army of Liberation during the Siege of Cuernavaca. \"El Texcal\" was the scene of numerous battles. The town of Jiutepec was burned by federal troops in retaliation on May 8, 1916; 225 revolutionaries were summarily judged and shot by (Carrancist) General Rafael Cepeda (\"El Democrata\" May 10, 1916; cited in the book \"Zapata y la Revoluci\u00f3n Mexicana\".\nBy 1932 land was redistributed in the form of \"ejidos\" (collective farmland). The municipality of Emiliano Zapata broke off Jiutepec on December 15, 1932, and Temixco broke off on March 3, 1933. The town of Progreso was founded in March, 1934, and there is a \"carnaval\" with Chinelos to celebrate. The colonia \"Agr\u00edcola Militar de Jos\u00e9 G. Parres\" was founded by veteran \"Zapatistas\" in the 1930s.\nMany people of Jiutepec supported peasant leader Rub\u00e9n Jaramillo in the 1950s and 1960s, and hundreds from Jiutepec attended his funeral in 1962.\nIn 1966 the \"Ciudad Industrial del Valle de Cuernavaca\" (CIVAC) was established. This industrial city was in conflict with the traditions of the municipality with little benefit in return, as the federal government decreed that industries established in the city would be exempt from taxes for thirty years. 4,000 hectares were expropriated from communal land in Tejalpa, without resistance based on promises that still have not been completed.\n21st century.\nJiutepec suffered considerably during the September 19, 2017 Puebla earthquake. Four people died and many buildings, were damaged.\nRafael Reyes Reyes of Juntos Haremos Historia (Together we will make history coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018. On February 17, 2020, a large, publicly displayed \"manta\" (banner) accused Reyes Reyes of ties to \"Los Linos\" drug cartel.\nViolence continues to effect Jiutepec. On February 23, 2019, between 15 and 20 armed robbers interrupted a party in \"Jard\u00edn Real Quinta B\u00fahos\", robbed the party-goers of their things, and stole at least twelve cars. Delfino S\u00e1nchez Zavala, the delegate-elect from Tejalpa, was shot and killed on March 30, 2019. The meeting of the town council planned for Sunday, March 31 was canceled.\nRafael Reyes Reyes, Municipal President, announced on May 20, 2019 that Jiutepec has a debt of MXN $745,341,125 (US $39.2 million), which is MXN $95 million more than its annual income.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020, 14 cases were reported in Jiutepec. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Jiutepec reported 97 confirmed cases and 18 deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Despite the fact that Morelos was classified \u2033Red Semaphore,\u2033 the auto industry was classified \u2033essential\u2033 and all 2,600 employees at the Nissan plant in Civac returned to work on June 11, 2020. As infections passed 4,000 and deaths 900 in August, Jiutepec did little to prevent the spread of the virus and allowed large weddings wherein guests were not required to use face masks. Jiutepec reported 510 cases, 401 recuperations, and 83 deaths from the virus as of August 31. One thousand, twenty-nine cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nPoints of interest.\n\"El Texcal\" water park features water slides, swimming pools, diving pool, locker rooms, parking, restaurant, guided visits to the ecological zone, and mountain biking route. Opened in 1992 and located in Tejalpa along the Cuernavaca-Cuautla highway. \"Balnario Ejidal Las Fuentes\" is a small water park with swimming pools and water slides located not far from downtown Jiutepec, Paseo de las Fuentes s/n, Pedregal de Las Fuentes.\nThe Mexican colonial period glows in an old 16th-century sugar hacienda, founded by Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s in 1530. Known as \"San Antonio Atlacomulco\", or \"Ex-Hacienda de Cortes\" this architectural piece of art is an example of the era of the conquest, its legends engraved in its great dry-stone walls and its historic past enveloped in lush vegetation and crystal-clear running water. Today it is a hotel/restaurant/spa located in Colonia Atlacomulco.\n\"Hacienda San Gaspar\" was built by Mart\u00edn Cort\u00e9s, son of the conqueror, in the 16th century. Today it hosts special events such as weddings. The chapel is open to the public for religious services. There is also an 18-hole, 7,000-yard golf course designed by Joe Finger. golf club\nThe church of Santiago Ap\u00f3stol is located in downtown Jiutepec. It is a former 16th-century Franciscan Convent with an 18th-century Baroque \"retable\" (altar) that was restored in 1998. There are also frescos on the walls of the cloister and a painting of \"Cristo Negro\" (Black Christ) from the 18th century. Santiago's festival is July 25.\nColonial churches dedicated to \"San Miguel, San Pedro\", and the Assumption can be found in Tejalpa. There is a festival on August 15.\nCamino Real Sumiya is a hotel/restaurant styled after a Japanese tea house. It has a Zen garden and a Kabuki theater that is a replica of the one in Kyoto. The hotel was originally the home of Barbara Hutton, the \"poor little rich girl\" who inherited the Woolworth five-and-dime fortune.web page in English \nThere is a Carnaval on the 4th Friday of January in Jiutepec and another in Tejalpa after Ash Wednesday. In Tejalpa they also celebrate the Feast of St. Luke on October 18 by making an offering in a spring. Visitors are offered free food.\nGreen mole, \"mole de pip\u00edan\" and red mole with turkey, green sauce, and \"guajes\" make up traditional foods.\nEconomy.\nThe most important economic activity is manufacturing. Cementos y Concretos Moctezuma opened its first plant, located in Jiutepec, in 1943.\nCivac (\"Ciudad Industrial de la Valle de Cuernavaca\"; Industrial City of the Cuernavaca Valley) was established in 1964. This is the largest and most important industrial park in the state with 120 factories and plants, concentrated in automotive, manufacturing, food, and chemical-pharmaceuticals. Civac also has a residential area.\nThere are 2,500 commercial establishments in the municipality. Agriculture remains important, and there are many nurseries. Flowers are grown commercially and exported; Jiutepec is the largest grower of Poinsettias in the country. There are 60 ceramic shops in the municipality.\n88,923 individuals over the age of 12 are economically active, and there are 8,577 economic units (3rd in the state). 48% of these are in involved in commerce, 40% in service, 11% manufacturing (937 units, 18,560 people), and 1% other.\nEducation.\nceieg Diagnostic Municipal 2015 pp 32-34, retrieved Dec 11, 2018 "}
{"id": "732095", "revid": "421426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732095", "title": "Chop (juggling)", "text": ""}
{"id": "732096", "revid": "31192532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732096", "title": "Jojutla", "text": "Jojutla is a municipality in the state of Morelos, Mexico. Its municipal seat is the city of \"Jojutla de Ju\u00e1rez\". The name \"Jojutla\" comes from Nahuatl \"Xox\u014duhtl\u0101n\" () and means, \"Place of abundant blue skies\". Another interpretation is Jojutla should be written Xo-Xoutla and its etymological roots come from: \"xoxou-ki\", (dye called indigo) and \"Tla-ntli\", (teeth) to indicate abundance, so the name means: \"Place abundant in blue paint\". This meaning is corroborated by Father Jos\u00e9 Agapito Mateo Minos in \"Nohualco Tlalpixtican\" (1722), about how he saw the maceration and decanting tanks of the \"xoxouki\" plant, when it still existed in the plaza \"Zacate\". \u00c1ngela Peralta mentions a unique pyramid consisting of three parts: the \"momozok\", the turret and the \"campanile\" (tower), demolished by the colonial government. Remnants of this can be seen in the staircase of the municipal palace.\nJojutla has an area of , representing 2.88% of the state. It is located at above sea level. The municipality reported 57,121 inhabitants in the year 2015 census.\n and part of the Sierra de Huautla Biosphere Reserve are located in the municipality of Jojutla.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic History.\nThe area that is Jojutla today was covered by the internal Sea of Plancarte in the Paleozoic Era. The first inhabitants are believed to have arrived 22,000 years ago. Although fragments of obsidian, ceramic, and pottery have been found in the atriums of the chapels of \"Teocalzingo\", \"Guadalupe\", and \"Tlatenchi\", no serious archaeological studies have been undertaken in the area. The \"Codex Mendoza\" tells us that people lived in Jojutla from 1425 to 1436 CE, when they were conquered by the troops of \"Izc\u00f3atl\" and Nezahualc\u00f3yotl, and submitted to the \"Calpixca Acolhua\" of Tlaquiltenango and the lordship of \"Cuauhn\u00e1huac\".\nColonial Era.\nThe exact date when the Spanish arrived is unclear, but the establishment of the town of San Miguel Xoxutla suggests they arrived on September 29 of 1522 or 1523, considering that in 1524 they inaugurated the bridge and dam of \"Cuernavaquita\" in Tlaquiltenango under orders from Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s. The area was governed by Tlaquiltenango, particularly after the arrival of the religious orders in 1549 and 1604.\nThe area around Xoxutla was quite swampy, so agriculture was not very profitable. The principal economic activities were fishing, production of indigo dye, and basketry.\nAs the population increased, a Sunday market developed in the \"Plaza de Arriba\" (atrium the church of San Miguel). The opening of the Acapulco-M\u00e9xico trade route in the 17th century and the bridge of Our Lady of Guadalupe over the Apatlaco River on July 16, 1616, encouraged the growth of the market.\nOne confusing fact as to the date of foundation of Jojutla is that 18 families headed by \"Ignacio de la Luz\" fled from \"Chimalacatlan\" because of an epidemic. The Dominican friars of the \"Villa de Tlaquiltenango\" accepted them in the town of \"San Jer\u00f3nimo Metl\", on April 14, 1695. Incidentally, this confusion in part comes from Dr. Santos Amador Espinoza, who wrote \"Notes on the history of the City of Jojutla de Ju\u00e1rez\" in 1895, but whose information was later contradicted by Father Jos\u00e9 Agapito Mateo Minos Campuzano. The town of San Jer\u00f3nimo Metl itself was devastated by a cholera epidemic in May 1770.\nOn September 14, 1722, in hacienda of San Gabriel, the muleteer Jos\u00e9 Cer\u00f3n found an image of the crucified Christ, which was taken to the chapel of the hacienda, only to mysteriously disappear three times. The Dominican friars then took it their monastery in Tlaquiltenango on January 1, 1723, when it again disappeared, only to reappear on the main altar of the chapel of Our Lady of Guadalupe, of the town of Archangel San Miguel Xoxutla. Since that time, there has been a festival in Xoxutla (Jojutla).\nIndependence &amp; 19th century.\nDuring the War of Mexican Independence Juan Antonio Tlaxcoapan of Tlaquiltenango led a group of citizens to meet Generals Vicente Guerrero and Nicol\u00e1s Bravo in \"Chimalacatlan\" on September 8, 1813. The citizens of Jojutla did not join the Insurgents in Chilpancingo, and once their army withdrew Tlaxcoapan was taken prisoner and shot by Spanish authorities on November 6, 1813. Today he is recognized as a local hero.\nRicardo S\u00e1nchez moved to Jojutla on March 15, 1830, and in 1836 he introduced the cultivation of brown rice. S\u00e1nchez lobbied for the municipalization of the town of the Archangel San Miguel Xoxutla, which was granted by the government of the State of Mexico on March 29, 1847. S\u00e1nchez became the first municipal president and he rescheduled the feast of the \"Lord of Tula\" from September 14 to January 1.\nThe Jojutla Railway began on September 21, 1890.\nOn April 14, 1895, at the initiative of a group led by the priest \"Agapito Mateo Minos Campuzano\", Jojutla celebrated its bicentennial.\nRevolution &amp; 20th century.\nThere was a bloody battle during the Mexican Revolution until the city was taken and looted by Maderistas under the command of Pablo Torres Burgo, and \"Gabriel Tepepa\". The Revolutionaries sacked the city.\n21st century.\nAndres Eloy Mart\u00ednez Rojas, a Mexican astronomer (b. Cuernavaca, 1953) discovered a crater on Mars, which he named \"Jojutla\". In 2017 the asteroid \"(6159) Andr\u00e9seloy (1991 YH)\" was named in his honor.\nAn illegal, secret graveyard used by the government was discovered in Jojutla in March 2017. This was similar to the one found in Tetelcingo two years earlier. Of the 85 bodies found in Jojutla, 54 involved cases that the police had not even bothered to investigate. 30,000 people have \"disappeared\" in Mexico in the years up to February, 2018.\nJojutla was hit harder than anywhere else in Morelos during the September 19, 2017 earthquake. At least 73 people died and hundreds were injured. 652 homes were destroyed, 1,157 were damaged, and many other buildings, including schools and the \"Palacio Municipal\" (city hall), were damaged. More than two years later, in January 2020, residents were still waiting for reconstruction.\nJuan Angel Flores Bustamonte of Juntos Haremos Historia (Together we will make history coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018.\nTwo parachutists died on March 23, 2019, when their equipment failed and they landed in the Autopista del Sol at Kilometer 132, near \"Jardines de Mexico\". They were employed by a school of parachutes in the area. Festival Vaiv\u00e9n 2019 (art &amp; music festival) was held in \"Jardines de Mexico\" on March 30, 2019.\n\"La Secundaria T\u00e9cnica n\u00famero 34\" in Jojutla was the first middle school in the country to give classes in agroecology.\nAs of May 4, 2020, there were 505 infections and 59 deaths in the state of Morelos and 18 confirmed infections from the COVID-19 pandemic in Jojutla. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1.\nIn 2019 Hortencia Figueroa Peralta from Jojutla, former leader (PRD) of the state legislature, was convicted of misuse of MXN $23.7 million earmarked for employees. She won a temporary injunction against being sent to prison, but in May 2020 that expired and she will soon be sent to the state penitentiary in Atlacholoaya.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. The state office of DIF sent food and water to vulnerable groups of people in eight municipalities including Jojutla on May 26. On June 2, Jojutla reported 94 confirmed cases and 17 deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Jojutla reported 211 cases, 145 recuperations, and 46 deaths from the virus as of August 31. Three hundred sixty-two cases were reported on December 27, 2020. The hospital dedicated to the care of serious COVID-19 cases reached 100% capacity on January 15, 2021.\nTourist attractions.\nIn addition to Lake Tequesquitengo, there are seven waterparks in the municipality:\nThe \"Ex-hacienda La Perseverancia\" (The Perseverance) was founded in 1870 and has a rice mill.\n\"Jardines de Mexico\" (Garden of Mexico), located in Tehuixla, is the largest ornamental garden in the world. There are 65 million flowers and 22,000 trees in seven gardens over an area of . An annual hot-air balloon fest is offered there. Festival Vaiv\u00e9n 2019 (art &amp; music festival) was celebrated in Jardines de Mexico, March 30, 2019.\nThe town of \"Chisco\" is not far from Lake Tequesquitengo. Visitors can enjoy Class 3 river rafting and tubing on the Amacuzac River; mountain biking ( of tracks); ultralight aviation; camping; and more. (Temporarily closed).\nLago de Tequesquitengo.\nKnown as \"The Sea of Morelos\", \"Lake Tequesquitengo\" provides relaxation and fun such as water skiing, skydiving, snorkeling, bungee jumping, or scuba diving. There are hotels around the lake in all price categories.\"Teques\" is a popular weekend destination for Mexicans from the capital and the State of Morelos.\nThe lake has a tragic history. The general belief is that the village of Tequesquitengo was flooded by the \"Mosso brothers\", who\u2014according to Alfonso Toussaint\u2014owned the \"San Jos\u00e9 Vista Hermosa\" hacienda in the mid-19th century, which was erected during the colonial era in the upper part of the valley. Newspapers of the nineteenth century pointed out that in the northern part of the valley there was a small lagoon, which was sustenance for the colonial town of Tequesquitengo, in addition to the \"tequesquite\", a mineral from which the settlement took its name. Until a difference between the peasants and the \"hacendados\" caused the latter to divert the flow of surplus water from the irrigation channels of the hacienda to the valley, flooding it and forcing its settlers to settle on the shores of the lake that formed covering the town and its church, \"San Juan Bautista\".\nScholars differ about when the flooding began, suggesting dates between 1820 and 1880, with some blaming the earthquake of 1845.\nFiestas, dances, and traditions.\nMusic and dances.\nBrass bands to accompany the dances of \"Los Tecuanes\", \"Las Pastoras\" and Chinelos at festivals.\nCuisine.\nRed, white, and green pozole; corn tamales of all kinds: fish, nopales (cactus leaves) with onions, \"huazmole\" (a goat stew made with jumbay; different rice plates; cecina; barbecue; and \"tacos dorados\" (tacos made with deep-fried torillas).\nEconomy.\nAgriculture is the most important economic activity in Jojutla. Sugarcane, rice, corn, beans, jicama, and watermelons are grown. Livestock are raised for both meat and dairy. The industrial sector is small, with only two companies; one produces wires and conductors, while the other produces boxes and disposable plates.\nJojutla is an important trading center not only within the municipality, but it also draws customers from other areas in the south part of the state of Morelos. Tourism is important, with Lake Tequesquitengo, Jardines de Mexico, four spas, three water parks, thirty-five restaurants, and twenty-two hotels.\nSierra de Huautla.\nEstablished in 2006, the Sierra de Huautla Biosphere Reserve (REBIOSH) covers in the Balsas River Basin of the municipalities of Jojutla, Tlaquiltenango, Amacuzac, Tepalcingo, and Puente de Ixtla. Its rough topology varies from above sea level in the Balsas Basin and constitutes a rich reservoir of endemic species to Mexico. There is a broad range of ecosystem, including low deciduous forest, gallery vegetation, and pine and oak forests. 939 species of plants, 44 species of butterflies, 71 species of mammals, 208 species of birds, 53 species of reptiles, 18 species of amphibians, and 14 species of fish have been noted. Among the species of animals are jaguars, short-horned Baronia butterfly, beaded lizard, military macaw, roufus-backed robin, Balsas screech owl, Pileated flycatcher, mountain lion, ocelot, margay, bobcat, and jaguarundi."}
{"id": "732097", "revid": "326639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732097", "title": "Jonacatepec", "text": "Jonacatepec de Leondro Valle is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos. The city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The municipality reported 15,690 inhabitants in the year 2015 census.\nThe name \"Jonacatepec\" comes from Nahuatl language and was written \"Xonakatepek \". Its etymological roots come from \"Xonaka-tl\" (onion), \"Tepe-tl\" (hill), \"k ap\u00f3cope\" from the adverb \"ko\" (place) and means \"on the hill where there are onions\". Leondro Valle is in reference to a supporter of the Plan de Ayutla of 1857 which opposed the dictatorship of Antonio L\u00f3pez de Santa Anna. Leondro Valle was from the town of Jonacatepec.\nJonacatepec has 98\u00a0km2 (38 sq. miles), which represents 1.97% of the total area of the state. It is 1,290 meters (3,967 feet) above sea level.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic Era.\nDuring the Prehispanic era, the first settlers of Morelos were the Olmec (1500-900 BCE), subject to Chalcatzingo who flourished in the Archaic period (700-500 BCE). After their decline, the Toltec predominated, with ruins in \"Las Pilas\", which flourished from 500-650 CE. According to anthropologist Hortensia de Vega, the springs surrounding the site were the most important element for the establishment and development of the population. The explorations have uncovered a complex network of channels, unique in its kind. The water directed towards large deposits was stored to be used in dry times and distributed to crop fields that were far away from the springs. In this way, agricultural production was increased, so that they could trade surpluses and obtain the objects that they needed for the ceremonies of their religious cult and the offerings to their dead. The water was stored to be used in dry times and distributed to fields that were far away from the springs so agricultural production was increased, enabling them to trade their surpluses and obtain the objects that they needed for the ceremonies of their religious cult and the offerings to their dead. The importance of this cult is evidenced by the presence of several burials found in the canals; as far as we know it is the first time that irrigation channels were used as tombs.\nLater Nahuas including the Chichimeca and Tlahuica emigrated to the area (1100-1521). \"Xonakatepek\" (Jonacatepec) was subservient to Huaxtepec. Oaxtepec, which itself was tributary to Tenochtitlan.\nColonial Era.\nIn the year 1558, the temple and convent of the town of Jonacatepec were founded, dedicated to St. August\u00edne of Hippo. Its founders were Fray Jer\u00f3nimo de San Esteban and Juan Cruzate, who are buried under the altar of this church. The main feature of this property is the size; this is the largest atrium in Morelos. The cloister of this convent is well-preserved.\nIn 1646 the province of Mexico was called \"audience of Mexico\", subservient to Cuautla de Ampillas, until the year 1824. The neighborhood of \"San Francisco\", the most populated; of its chapel there is no record of its construction, although it is believed it dates from 1774.\nDue to the high population density, at least eight \"trapiches\" (sugar mills) were located in the east of Morelos, taking advantage of the water of the Amacuzac River. Two haciendas, \"Santa Clara de Montefalco\" in Jonacatepec and \"Santa Ana Tenango\"in Jantetelco, gradually dominated the villages of Tlanahuac-Chalcatzingo.\nThe beginnings of \"Santa Clara de Montefalco\" date back to 1616. Pedro Cort\u00e9s, a grandson of the Conqueror Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s, rented the land (almost 86 hectares) and a ranch (about 780 hectares) to Pedro Arag\u00f3n in 1616. Over the years, even during the Mexican Revolution, the hacienda stayed in the same family until it was sold to Opus Dei in 1952.\nThe hacienda of \"Santa Ana Tenango\" has its origin in part from a grant in 1589 by the viceroy \"M\u00e1rquez de Villa Manrique\", to its first owner, Luis Rebolledo. He established the first sugar mill around 1640 and later passed it to his son Francisco de Rebolledo, who in turn sold the farm in 1650 to Pedro S\u00e1enz de Rosas. Pedro Segura settled in Jonacatepec and tried to improve the lives of the few inhabitants. Mart\u00edn de la Rosa, a relative of Pedro Tr\u00e1paga de Rosas, is credited with the construction of the bridge of the deep ravine, as well as the donation of the image of the \"Lord of the Three Falls\" to the chapel of the San Mart\u00edn neighborhood, and of the \"Virgen de la Soledad\" to the chapel of San Francisco.\nDuring all this time, the sugar haciendas were able to become richer and more powerful.\nEarly Independent Period.\nAfter the independence of Mexico, in 1855, the Jonacatepec district was legally recognized. Six years later, in 1861, the people of the town refused to recognize the presidency of Benito Juarez, choosing Porfirio Diaz instead, with Feliciano Chavarr\u00eda as Governor of Morelos. The rebels of Jonacatepec were defeated in battle by forces under the command of General Jose Fandi\u00f1o; the rebels then fled to Tetela and Hueyapan. Rosario Arag\u00f3n, principal author of the \"Plan of Jonacatepec\", was apprehended in Villa del Valle, State of Mexico.\nOn October 17, 1861, the Legislature of the State of Mexico created the districts of Cuernavaca, Cuautla, Yautepec, Tetecala, and Jonacatepec. On November 14 of that same year, the head offices of the District were designated as villas, except for those that were already cities. On July 7, 1862, President Benito Juarez changed the name of the community to \"Jonactepec de Leandro Valle\" in honor of a fallen native of the town who had supported him. Morelos became a state in 1869.\nThe haciendas of Santa Clara and Tenango expanded during the Porfiriato (1877-1911) to produce quantities of sugar never reached before. Besides Santa Clara and Tenango, the haciendas of San Ignacio (now Marcelino Rodr\u00edguez), Cuatepec, and Atotonilco prospered. Jonacatepec also prospered, but the series of injustices and dispossessions committed against the people at this stage caused yearning for the Mexican Revolution. Eventually, the liberal \"Club Leandro Valle\" was formed in Jonacatepec in opposition to the re-election of Governor of Morelos Pablo Escand\u00f3n (1909-1911) and all he represented.\nRevolution &amp; 20th Century.\nFollowing the success of the Plan of Agua Prieta in 1920, General Francisco Mendoza was put in charge of eastern Morelos with a base in Jonacatepec.\nGovernor of Morelos Antonio Riva Palacio and his attorney general, Tom\u00e1s Flores Allende, were nearly lynched in Jonacatepec after the police attacked several of the townspeople on August 5, 1993. The citizens were repressed by \"Grupo Scorpion\" under the command of Colonel Jorge Encinas Guti\u00e9rrz.\n21st Century.\nAlthough Jonacatec did not report the loss of lives, the municipality was severely damaged in the 2017 Puebla earthquake. At least 700 homes were destroyed, and many others were damaged.\nIsrael Andrade Zavala of \"Juntos por Morelos PRD-PSD\" was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018.\nWhile the state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020, no cases were reported in Jonacatepec. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. Sixty-nine cases were reported on December 27, 2020. Vaccinations for senior citizens (60+) are scheduled to begin on March 12, 2021.\nCommunities.\nThe municipality reported 15,690 inhabitants in the year 2015 census. \nThe largest communities in the municipality of Jonacatepec are: Jonacatepec de Valle, the municipal seat, which is located 97\u2013119\u00a0km (depending on the route used) east of Cuernavaca, 132\u00a0km south of Mexico City, and 87\u00a0km southwest of Puebla. Amacuitlapilco is 1.5\u00a0km from Jonacatepec. It has a population of 1,873 inhabitants. It is considered an Indigenous community of Tlahuica descent. It is 1,359 meters above sea level. There are one preschool, two elementary schools, and one telesecundaria. In addition, there are two preschools that conduct classes in Indigenous languages. Tetelilla is 8\u00a0km from Jonacatepec and has a population of 3,182 inhabitants. It is 1,164 meters above sea level. There is one preschool, two elementary schools, and one middle school. Tlayca is 4\u00a0km from Jonacatepec and has 506 inhabitants. It is 1,357 meters above sea level. There is one preschool and one elementary school.\nNotable people.\nLeandro Valle (1833-1861) was born in Mexico City on February 27, 1833. He spent his childhood in the town of Jonacatepec with his father. In 1836 General Antonio L\u00f3pez de Santa Anna fell prisoner in \"Tejas\" (Texas), so Leandro Valle grew up under signs that Santa Anna could not consolidate the nascent Republic. In 1844, at the age of 11, he entered the Military College, graduating at 14 as Second Lieutenant and then fought in the Mexican\u2013American War (1846-1848). After the war, he joined the Liberal Party and supported the 1854 Plan de Ayutla, which led to the ouster of Santa Anna and the election of Juan \u00c1lvarez as President of Mexico in Cuernavaca.\nValle participated in the Reform War (1857-1860) distinguishing himself in the battles of \"Guadalajara, Silao\", and \"San Miguel Calpulalpan\"; he was promoted to general at the age of 26. The Liberals won the war, and Benito Ju\u00e1rez became president. When Liberal hero Melchor Ocampo was kidnapped and murdered in Hidalgo by conservative guerrillas June 1861, Ju\u00e1rez sent Santos Degollado to capture the aggressors. Santos was also killed, and Juarez sent Valle to finish the job; Valle was also captured, then shot in the back, and his body was hung from a tree on June 23, 1861.\nAgust\u00edn Arag\u00f3n Le\u00f3n (1870-1954) was an educator and politician born in Jonacatepec. He was a promoter of the positivist ideology and was the founder and editor of the magazine \"Positiva\".\nAttractions and culture.\nIn June 2017 the town council headed by the mayor, Israel Andrade Zavala, developed the \"Municipal Plan for Tourism Development of Jonacatepec de Leandro Valle, Morelos\" according to the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO). The priorities are taking advantage of the town's historic center, the St. Augustine monastery, Las Pilas archaeological zone and water park, \"El Cristo del Mirador\" park, plus local cuisine. It is hoped that the town will be certified as a \"Magical Town\".\nLas Pilas water park and Archaeological Site.\n\"Las Pilas\" is the name of both a small water park and the ancient ruins found there. Located in Jonacatepec, the rustic water park has swimming pools and offers guided tours of the archaeological site.\nThe ruins of Las Pilas date from a 1st-century BCE village, although the most visible ruins date from 500-650 CE. Las Pilas was probably subject to Chalcatzingo, an Olmec an important religious and commercial center of great importance at that time that is only 4\u00a0km away. It is very possible that this site was subject to Chalcatzingo since it was a religious and commercial center of great importance at the time. The ceremonial center of Las Pilas was integrated by square constructions, and there is a complex system of canals used for irrigation. Another of the functions of this religious center seems to have been related to the water deities, possibly Tlaloc, which would explain the human burials placed in a strange lotus position in or near the channels. The site's main chronology is Early Classic, from 200 to 600 CE.\nEx Convento de San Agust\u00edn.\nThe monastery of St. Augustine of Hippo, was founded about 1557 by the Augustinians, and by 1571 it supervised nine other churches. It was in continuous use until the middle of the 19th century, by which time it used a home for the parish priest, police barracks, a school, and a theater, while the atrium was used as a cemetery, a market, and a soccer field.\nThe atrium of the monastery is very large, which indicates that the Indigenous population subject to the head of San Agust\u00edn Jonacatepec during the colonial period was considerable. The traditional \"Onion Fair\" is celebrated in the atrium today. There are several elaborate tombs attached to the church dating from the 19th century. Three of the tombs have distinctive Masonic markings, including fluted columns and an elongated pyramid. It is believed that Masonry arrived in Mexico towards the end of the 18th century.\nThere is evidence that the bell tower, south, and west sides of the building were all impacted by bullets at the time of the Mexican Revolution\nThere are two chapels inside the church, and the original wooden altarpieces, believed to be carved by one of the greatest artists of the viceroyalty, Higinio Lopez of Zacualpan de Amilpas, are well-preserved.\nThe feast of St. Augustine is celebrated on May 5, and the Onion Fair is the second or third Friday of December.\nEx Hacienda de Santa Clara Montefalco.\nIn 1616 Pedro Cort\u00e9s, grandson of Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s, leased more than 860 hectares to Pedro de Arag\u00f3n. Two years later he gave him a license to plant sugarcane and establish a sugar mill. In 1708 Pedro de Segura inherited part of the hacienda from Antonio de Arrigorrieta in 1708, and he bought the rest of it from Arrigorrieta's widow and daughter. 32 years later, his nephew, Juan Francisco de Urtaza, inherited the mill and modernized it, establishing the base of the sugar emporium in eastern Morelos. Jose Antonio de Zalvide Goitia from Armentia, in the Basque country, inherited the hacienda from Urtaza in 1759. During the Mexican Revolution, the hacienda was burned and only a few walls remained standing. In 1952, the owners sold the hulk to Opus Dei, the conservative Catholic religious organization, to perform social work. They founded a school in 1961 and currently teach basic and upper secondary levels. Closed to the public.\nFairs &amp; Festivals.\nThe principal fairs are the Fair of the \"Pabell\u00f3n\" on the fourth Friday of Lent, the Fair of the \"Tamal\" on the fifth Friday of Lent, the Battle of Puebla on May 5 (a civic festival with a parade, bulls, and theatrical presentations), and the \"Fair of the Cebolla\" (onion) on the second or third Friday of December.\nDance &amp; Music.\nThe \"Tecu\u00e1n\" presents a character with old clothes, mocking mask and hat, carrying a stuffed animal in a traditional dance. While there is no music identified with the municipality, Zeferino Torres Montiel wrote \"Corrido de Jonacatepec\".\nFood.\nPopular foods include green mole of \"pipian\"with tamales of \"cenizas\"; red mole with turkey, cecina with cheese, cream and green sauce with \"guaje\"; goat barbecue kid meat and wild pigeons stewed in pipian or green sauce. There are also a wide variety of recipes based on onions.\nGeography.\nLocation and area.\nJonacatepec de Leandro Valle is located at 18.683\u00b0 latitude and -98.803\u00b0 longitude. Its elevation is 1,360 m (4,462 ft.) above sea level. It is located in the \"Eje Neovolc\u00e1nico\" (Neovolcanic Axis). Jonacatepec is 75.9 km (47.2 miles) east of Cuernavaca and 126.2 km (78.4 miles) south of Mexico City.\nTo the north are the municipalities of Temoac and Jantetelco; to the south is Axochiapan; to the east Jantetelco, to the west are Ayala and Tepalcingo. Jonacatepec has an area of 90.3 km2 (34.9 sq. mi.), which represents 1.9% of the area of the state.\nRelief and waterways.\nThe topography within a radius of 3 kilometers (2 miles) from Jonacatepec de Leandro Valle has large variations in altitude, with a maximum change in altitude of 265 meters and an average altitude above sea level of 1,348 meters. In a radius of 16 kilometers (10 miles), there are very large variations of altitude (825 meters; 2,700 ft.). In a radius of 80 kilometers (50 miles), there are enormous variations of altitude (4,795 meters; 15,732 ft.).\nThe most important heights are \"El Cerro Tenango\" (1,500 m) in the east of the municipality, \"El Cerro Del Cuachi\" (790 m) and \"Cerro Colorado\" (600 m) in the west. Hilly areas cover 14% of the territory while 86% is a plain or valley.\nJonacatepec belongs to the Rio Balsas hydrographic region and is within the Atoyac River basin. The River Amatzinac begins near Amayuca, which later forms the River Tepalcingo.\nFlora and fauna.\nThe area within a 3-kilometer radius of Jonacatepec de Leandro Valle is covered with cropland (98%); within a radius of 16 kilometers of cultivated land (78%) and trees (13%), and within a radius of 80 kilometers of farmland (38%) and trees (37%).\nWild animals include skunk, coyote, cacomixtle, tlacuache, armadillo, badger, squirrel, iguana, rabbit, ferret, rattlesnake, eagle, sparrowhawk, magpie, lammergeyer, chachalaca, pigeon, pigeon, wasp, huitlacoche, woodpecker, zenzontle, owl, bat, and hare. Plants include guam\u00fachil (which has a small, red fruit), mezquite, amates (ficus), cazahuate, acacia, and copal (traditionally used for incense).\nClimate.\nIn Jonacatepec de Leandro Valle, the rainy season is cloudy, while the dry season is partly cloudy and hot throughout the year. The rainy season lasts from about May 23 to October 11; July is the wettest month and December is the driest. During the course of the year, the temperature generally varies from 11\u00b0C to 32\u00b0C and rarely drops below 8\u00b0C or rises above 35\u00b0C. The warmest temperatures occur from late March to late May, while the coolest temperatures are from late November to the end of January.\nThe skies are generally clear from October 31 to May 20; February 24 is the clearest day, while September 15 is the cloudiest day. Prevailing winds flow from the south from February through June and from the east from June through February. Wind velocity averages 8.7 km/h from December through May and 7.4 km/h from May through December.\nNatural resources and soil use.\nThere are lime mines on the \"Del Cuachi hill\" and Kaolinite mines on the \"Colorado hill\". Jonacatepec has very fertile soils. 2,055 hectares (5,078 acres) are devoted to forestry."}
{"id": "732098", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732098", "title": "Great Mosque of Djenne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732100", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732100", "title": "Apostolic legate", "text": ""}
{"id": "732101", "revid": "525927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732101", "title": "Academic dress of the University of Cambridge", "text": "The University of Cambridge has a long tradition of academic dress, which it traditionally refers to as academical dress. Almost every degree which is awarded by the university has its own distinct gown in addition to having its own hood. Undergraduates wear college gowns, which are all subtly different; these differences enable the wearer's college to be determined. Academic dress is worn quite often in Cambridge on formal, and sometimes informal, occasions, and there are a number of rules and customs governing when and how it is worn. Black gowns (undress) are worn at less formal events, while on special occasions (such as the days of General Admission to Degrees) full academical dress is worn, consisting of gown, hood and headdress with doctors in festal dress. The university's officials also have ancient forms of academic dress, unique to the university.\nWhen academic dress is worn.\nMost undergraduates buy or borrow a gown in their first week at Cambridge for the purpose of matriculation, which is the formal ceremony of enrolment in the university. It is more common to buy an undergraduate gown as the number of occasions on which it is worn quickly repays the investment. Gowns are often recycled between 'generations', as new graduate students in turn need to upgrade their gowns at the start of the academic year.\nIn most colleges, gowns are worn to Formal Hall (formal dinner, held every night in some colleges, once or twice a term in a few others) and to chapel. Various college events also demand academic dress; for example, in the Trinity College regulations for members \"in statu pupillari\", it specifies that certain senior members of the college (such as the dean) prefer students to wear a gown when addressing them in their official capacity (often when having been 'Deaned' for breaking the college rules). The extent to which these rules apply vary greatly from college to college, some dispensing with academic attire even for Formal Hall.\nOn special occasions, fuller academic dress is used, often including hoods. Students taking part in graduation ceremonies at the Senate House always wear a gown and hood, and the university sets out strict rules regarding which gown and hood a graduating student should wear, and there are regulations on the colour and formality of clothing that may be worn. Gowns and hoods may also be worn when attending chapel, and hoods may be worn with choir dress or a surplice.\nComponents of Cambridge academic dress.\nWhen wearing full academic dress, an individual wears the gown, hood and sometimes headdress of the highest degree he has already received from the University of Cambridge. One who does not hold a Cambridge degree (such as an undergraduate, or a graduate of another university) normally wears a gown according to his or her status in the university, i.e., undergraduate, BA status or MA status (see below), without the 'strings' which are attached to the gowns of Cambridge graduates. Graduates of other universities may wear the academic dress of those universities on 'scarlet days', unless they are university officials or participating in a degree ceremony, but this has only been permitted since 1998.\nA graduand (someone about to be presented for a degree) wears the full academic dress of the highest status Cambridge degree that they already hold. Graduands who do not already hold a Cambridge degree wear the gown appropriate to their status in the university, along with the hood of the degree to which they are about to be admitted. Undergraduates (who do not yet hold a Cambridge degree) wear their undergraduate gowns, with the hood of the degree that they are about to receive. Thus, for example, an undergraduate graduating to a BA degree wears an undergraduate gown and a BA hood. A holder of a BA from Cambridge graduating to a PhD wears a BA gown and hood, whereas a graduate of another university graduating to a PhD wears a BA or MA status gown and PhD hood.\nMedical graduates completing their clinical years wear the gown and hood of the B.Chir degree. This is because the B.Chir degree is conferred \"in absentia\" as soon as the list of people passing the Final M.B. examination is posted outside Senate House. This was to prevent the necessity for a 'double graduation' ceremony. It is common practice for students to hire the B.Chir academic dress, rather than purchase it, since it is superseded by the M.B. academic dress post graduation. Where students have completed both pre-clinical and clinical years at Cambridge, many do not purchase the M.B. academic dress, hiring it for occasions requiring academic dress (Alumni Formal Hall etc.) as this is superseded a couple of years later when the automatic Oxbridge MA is granted. Medical students graduate at the end of the third year with a Cambridge BA, and for this ceremony are treated as any other students graduating with a BA.\nThe full list of degrees and their order of seniority is given in the Ordinances of the university: roughly speaking, in descending order of rank the degrees are higher doctorates such as the DD or ScD, the PhD and other initial doctorates such as the MD or EdD, Master's degrees, and finally Bachelor's degrees. These different groups of degrees are distinguished by different academic dress.\nGowns.\nThe gowns in use at Cambridge, like those generally used throughout the UK but not the US, are open-fronted. The main types seen are the undergraduate gown, Bachelor of Arts gown and Master of Arts gown, though the sleeves of graduates' gowns are adorned with various patterns that indicate the exact degree or degrees that they possess, and allow this to be determined even when hoods are not being worn. In addition, for Scarlet days, Doctors (either of Philosophy, or one of the more senior doctorates) wear special dress gowns, distinguished by the use of scarlet.\nUndergraduates.\nAll undergraduate gowns resemble knee-length versions of the BA gown, and the basic gown is black, reaching down to just below the knees with an open pointed sleeve and the forearm seam left open. Most colleges' gowns include minor variations on this pattern, such as sleeve decorations. The most distinct differences are the blue colour of the undergraduate gowns of Trinity and Caius and the blue facings of Selwyn. Illustrations and descriptions of the various collegiate gowns are available from the university's Heraldic and Genealogical Society website.\nBA and MA.\nThe two most common graduate gowns in Cambridge are the BA gown and the MA gown. Unlike in most other universities, except Oxford and Trinity College Dublin, no Bachelor's degree other than the BA is awarded (except the graduate vocational course Bachelor of Theology for Ministry). All undergraduates at Cambridge traditionally graduated with a BA degree after three years, although it is now common for many graduates in scientific subjects also to obtain a Master's degree, such as an MEng or MSci, after a further year of study and graduate to both degrees at once.\nAs in Oxford and Dublin, BAs are automatically entitled to proceed to the degree of Master of Arts after a period of time (see also Master of Arts (Oxbridge and Dublin)). In Cambridge, this period is six years from the end of the first term after matriculation provided this is at least two years from the award of the BA \u2013 BAs are thus eligible for the MA at the first graduation ceremony in the seventh calendar year after matriculation.\nThe BA gown is a long black stuff (cloth) gown with long pointed sleeves to the wrists with the forearm seam left open from near the shoulder to around 3-4\" from the wrist. The gown is gathered at the back in a yoke, and falls down to just below the knees. The BA hood is of black cloth, bound and half-lined in white fur, which by regulation is artificial.\nThe MA gown is similar to the BA gown, except that it has \"boot\" sleeves, which are long, rectangular and closed at the ends, with a crescent cut out of each sleeve-end which curves at the top (unlike the Oxford MA gown), and a horizontal arm-slit just above the elbow. It falls down to calf length (slightly longer than the BA gown) and may be made of silk. The MA hood is of black silk lined in white silk.\nOther Master's degree gowns vary from subject to subject at Cambridge; for example, the Master of Engineering (MEng) and MSci gowns are the standard MA gown but with a circle of cord on each sleeve, and a corresponding hood is worn. The MPhil gown is the same as the MSci gown, but instead of an embroidered wheel, it has two buttons connected by a vertical cord running from the sleeve slit to the shoulder.\nPeople without a Cambridge degree (including those with a degree from another university) wear a 'BA status' or 'MA status' gown, which is identical to a BA or MA gown but (nominally) with the 'strings' (black ribbons attached inside the shoulder) removed or hidden from view. The BA status gown is for those aged under twenty-four while the MA gown is for those aged twenty-four or over. (The rationale is that Cambridge students would usually join the University at 18, obtain their BA after three years, at 21, and their MA after a further three years, at 24.)\nDoctors.\nDoctors in Cambridge have two forms of academic dress: \"undress\" and \"full dress\" (or \"scarlet\"). Scarlet is worn on formal college and university occasions, and so-called Scarlet Days (see below).\nThe \"undress gown\" or \"black gown\" is similar to the MA gown (for PhD, MD, VetMD, BusD, EngD, EdD, LittD, ScD and in practice DD) or is a 'lay-type' gown similar to that worn by King's Counsel (LLD, MedScD, MusD). Different doctorates are distinguished from each other and from the plain MA gown by different arrangements of lace on the sleeves, facings or flap collar. The DD traditionally had a gown with sleeves gathered at the wrists, like those on American gowns, which are called 'bishop's sleeves' or 'pudding sleeves'.\nUndress gowns may be made of silk or stuff. The gown may be worn with a doctor's hood. The PhD hood, the one most commonly seen, is made of black corded silk lined with scarlet cloth, and other 'lower' doctorates have variants on the same scheme with different colours lining the black hood. The hoods of higher doctors are made of red cloth and lined with silk in the faculty colour (scarlet for letters, pink shot light blue for science, light cherry for laws, mid cherry for medicine, dove grey for divinity). The MusD hood is of cream damask lined with dark cherry satin.\nThe \"full dress\" or \"scarlet gown\" differs for each doctorate. For PhDs, and also MD, VetMD, BusD, EngD and EdD who share the same scarlet gown, there are two versions of the robe. The traditional version is the same as the MA gown (in theory, though not in practice, the silk version), with the addition of a broad red cloth stripe down each side at the front. The alternative version (authorised in 2006 but commonly used without authorisation before then) uses detachable facings on an undress PhD gown, which is distinguished from the MA gown by doctors' lace on the sleeves that is not found on the traditional festal PhD gown. For the higher doctorates other than MusD (DD, LLD, ScD, LittD, and MedScD), the scarlet gown is made of scarlet cloth and has open sleeves that hang long at the back. The linings of the sleeves and the facings are in silk of the colour of the hood lining. At the sleeve front, the lining is turned outwards and is fixed in position by a twisted cord and button. The MusD gown is of cream damask, with much shorter sleeves, lined and faced with deep cherry satin.\n\"Scarlet day\".\nScarlet day is the term used in the University of Cambridge to designate those days on which Doctors are required to wear the festal form of academic dress. They are so called because of the scarlet elements in the gowns and hoods of the festal full dress worn by Doctors as opposed to the everyday undress black gowns. On these days it is also permitted for members of the university to wear the academic dress of other Universities from which they have obtained degrees.\nThe ordinances of the University set out the following days as scarlet days: Christmas Day, Easter Day, Ascension Day, Whitsunday, Trinity Sunday, All Saints' Day, the day appointed for the Commemoration of Benefactors, and on the days of General Admission to Degrees. In addition, the Vice-Chancellor may prescribe other scarlet days throughout the year, for example on days of national celebration.\nThe individual colleges each have a few scarlet days of their own as well, such as on the day of their Saint.\nHoods.\nHoods are worn on the back as an indicator of academic status. These are of the distinctive \"Cambridge Full\" shape. The hood consists of a cape (known also as the 'tippet'), cowl and liripipe. The neckband of a hood is of the outer colour, with no edging of the lining material. The corners of tippets are square. The design of hoods as set by University Ordinances Chapter II is below.\nOn graduation, if a student does not hold a degree from the University of Cambridge, they wear the appropriate hood for the degree they will receive. If a student already holds one or more degrees from the University of Cambridge, they wear the hood of the highest degree that they hold. For example, when a MPhil student graduates, but already holds a BA from Cambridge, then they would wear the BA hood again.\nHeaddresses.\nA form of a black hat known as a square cap (also mortarboard) is worn or carried. Properly, it is worn outdoors and carried indoors, except by people acting in an official capacity who customarily continue to wear it indoors. Although in practice few people wear (or even carry) a cap nowadays, they are nominally still required for graduates at the university; caps ceased to be compulsory for undergraduates in 1943 due to a shortage during the Second World War, and, after bringing them back for degree ceremonies in the Senate House only, were finally made entirely optional for undergraduates in 1953, though they are still not permitted to wear any other head covering with a gown.\nWith their festal gowns, Doctors of Divinity wear a black velvet cap, and Doctors in other Faculties wear a wide-brimmed round velvet bonnet with gold string and tassels, known as a Tudor bonnet, instead of a mortarboard, though they may choose to wear a square cap with a festal gown if they are taking part in a ceremony in the Senate House.\n\"Sub-fusc\".\n\"Sub-fusc\" means \"of a dark/dusky colour\", and refers to the clothes worn with full academic dress in Cambridge although the university officially does not use this term. Generally, this involves a dark suit and white shirt, collar, bands and bow tie for men (who must also wear black socks), and a dark suit and white blouse for women. The rules for dress on graduation for women also specify that women's attire must have long sleeves. Although only male graduands are required to wear white ties and bands by a regulation, nothing prevents female graduands doing so too if they wear a properly collared shirt.\nIn place of \"sub-fusc\", members of His Majesty's Armed Forces have in the past been allowed to wear their service uniform, persons in holy orders their clerical dress, and national dress has been worn, together with the appropriate gown and hood. Currently as of 2007, national dress is no longer accepted as an alternative to \"sub-fusc\". The proctors have discretion to waive the part of the regulations concerning dark clothes and white tie on 'reasonable grounds'.\nNotably, the rules governing Cambridge \"sub-fusc\" are less detailed and less strict than those prevailing at Oxford. In particular, bands may be worn at Oxford only by high officers of the university and by doctors on certain occasions. Some women are required to wear bands with a black tie (in practice a black velvet ribbon) while others holding certain offices are permitted the alternative of a white bow tie with their bands. At Cambridge, there are only strict \"sub-fusc\" rules in \"Statutes and Ordinances\" for graduation ceremonies, at which the rules are enforced strictly by the proctors. Persons who are incorrectly dressed may be prevented from graduating in person, and their Praelector or Presenter may be fined.\nAcademic dress for officials of the University.\nThe chancellor.\nThe chancellor of the university wears on ceremonial occasions a black silk gown with a long train, decorated with gold lace, similar to the gown of the Lord Chancellor.\nPersons presenting for, or conferring, degrees.\nThe vice-chancellor (or his/her deputy) when conferring degrees, and presenters of graduands for higher doctorates (Doctor of Divinity, Doctor of Law, Doctor of Science, Doctor of Medical Science, Doctor of Letters, Doctor of Music), wear a scarlet \"cappa clausa\", or \"closed cope\" of scarlet cloth with an ermine hood and trimmings, as shown in the image to the right. Cambridge is the only university in the world apart from the University of the South in America to retain the \"cappa clausa\" as part of its academic dress.\nCollege praelectors, and all other presenters, wear the academical dress of their highest Cambridge degree when presenting graduands.\nProctors.\nThe Proctors in Cambridge are formally responsible for the discipline of junior members of the university. In addition, they have various ceremonial and administrative duties, with which they are, in practice, mainly occupied.\nIn both Oxford and Cambridge, the Proctors could formerly be seen patrolling the streets after dark with the University Constables, or \"bulldogs\", who wore top hats in Cambridge and bowler hats in Oxford. These traditions have now ceased, although the Proctors are still responsible for posting various disciplinary notices (e.g. highlighting the restriction on undergraduates' possession of motor cars) around the Colleges. Their Constables continue to wear top hats and cloaks on ceremonial occasions.\nThe Proctors wear the academic dress of a Master of Arts, but with a distinctive ruff which is like a cape or very short mantle over the gown. This is known as 'Congregation dress' and is worn with the MA hood over it. When attending church, the hood is worn \"squared\", meaning that the hood is first flattened then worn over the shoulders like a cape (Masters of Trinity College also wear their hood squared at their installation, but the previous two and incumbent did not do so for unexplained reasons, so it is assumed this tradition is no longer observed). The method of arranging this dress has been handed down, as has a pattern \"ruff\", from Proctor to Proctor; but nowadays the repositories of such traditions are more often the Proctors' men, who, in these matters, perform the offices which judges expect of their clerks.\nEsquire Bedells.\nThe Esquire Bedells in Cambridge are ceremonial officers. The Senior Esquire Bedell is required to be familiar with all details of academical dress at the university. When carrying out the duties of his or her office, an Esquire Bedell is required to wear the academical dress of a Master of Arts.\nOther officials.\nOther officials such as the Orator wear the academic dress appropriate to their degree."}
{"id": "732102", "revid": "14229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732102", "title": "Great Mosque of Jenne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732103", "revid": "14229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732103", "title": "Mosque of Djenn\u00e9", "text": ""}
{"id": "732105", "revid": "14229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732105", "title": "Mosque of Djenne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732108", "revid": "7611264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732108", "title": "Sulfonylurea", "text": "Sulfonylureas or sulphonylureas are a class of organic compounds used in medicine and agriculture. The functional group consists of a sulfonyl group (-S(=O)2) with its sulphur atom bonded to a nitrogen atom of a ureylene group (N,N-dehydrourea, a dehydrogenated derivative of urea). The side chains R1 and R2 distinguish various sulfonylureas. Sulfonylureas are the most widely used herbicide.\nAgricultural uses.\nMany sulfonylureas are used as herbicides, because they can interfere with plant biosynthesis of certain amino acids.\nAs herbicides sulfonylureas function by interfering with biosynthesis of the amino acids valine, isoleucine, and leucine, specifically via acetolactate synthase inhibition. Compounds in this class include amidosulfuron, azimsulfuron, bensulfuron-methyl, chlorimuron-ethyl, chlorsulfuron, ethametsulfuron-methyl, cinosulfuron, cyclosulfamuron, ethoxysulfuron, flazasulfuron, flupyrsulfuron-methyl-Na, foramsulfuron, halosulfuron, imazosulfuron, iodosulfuron, mesosulfuron, metsulfuron-methyl, nicosulfuron, oxasulfuron, primisulfuron-methyl, prosulfuron, pyrazosulfuron-ethyl, rimsulfuron, sulfometuron-methyl, sulfosulfuron, thifensulfuron-methyl, triasulfuron, tribenuron-methyl, trifloxysulfuron, triflusulfuron-methyl and tritosulfuron. These are broad-spectrum herbicides that kill plants weeds or pests by inhibiting the enzyme acetolactate synthase. In the 1960s, more than crop protection chemical was typically applied, while sulfonylureates allow as little as 1% as much material to achieve the same effect.\nMedical uses.\nTreatment of type 2 diabetes.\nThey are widely used as antidiabetic drugs in the management of diabetes mellitus type 2. They act by increasing secretion of insulin from the beta cells in the pancreas.\nSulfonylureas are ineffective where there is absolute deficiency of insulin production such as in type 1 diabetes or post-pancreatectomy.\nSulfonylureas can be used to treat some types of neonatal diabetes. Historically, people with hyperglycemia and low blood insulin levels were diagnosed with type 1 diabetes by default, but it has been found that patients who receive this diagnosis before 6 months of age are often candidates for receiving sulfonylureas rather than insulin throughout life.\nA 2011 Cochrane systematic review evaluated the effects on treatment of Latent Autoimmune Diabetes in Adults (LADA) and found that Sulfonylureas did not improve metabolic control of glucose at 3 and 12 months, even worsening HbA1c levels in some cases, when compared to insulin. The same review did not find improvement of fasting C-peptide following treatment with sulfonylurea. Still, it is important to highlight that the studies available to be included in this review presented considerable flaws in quality and design.\nWhile prior sulfonylureas were associated with worse outcomes, newer agents do not appear to increase the risk of death, heart attacks, or strokes. This is further reinforced by a 2020 Cochrane systematic review which did not find enough evidence of reduction of all-cause mortality, serious adverse events, cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke or end-stage renal disease when comparing metformin monotherapy to sulfonylureas. This same review also did not find improvement in health-related quality of life.\nIn individuals with impaired-glucose tolerance, a 2019 systematic review only found one suitable trial comparing the effects of Sulphonylurea with metformin in reduction or delay of risk of developing type 2 diabetes, however this trial did not report patient-relevant outcomes. Another systematic review completed in the same year suggested that there is limited evidence if the combined used of Metformin with Sulphonylurea compared to the combination of Metformin plus another glucose-lowering intervention, provides benefit or harm in mortality, severe adverse events, macrovascular and microvascular complications. Combined Metformin and Sulphonylurea therapy did appear to lead to higher risk of Hypoglycemia.\nInterleukin-1 \u03b2 inhibitors.\nSulfonylureas are also used experimentally to inhibit release of interleukin 1 beta from the NALP3 (or NLRP3) inflammasome.\nSide effects.\nSulfonylureas \u2013 as opposed to metformin, the thiazolidinediones, pramlintide and other newer treatments \u2013 may induce hypoglycemia as a result of excesses in insulin production and release. Hypoglycemia appears to happen more often with sulfonylureas than compared to other treatments. This typically occurs if the dose is too high, and the patient is fasting. Some people attempt to change eating habits to prevent this, however it can be counterproductive.\nLike insulin, sulfonylureas can induce weight gain, mainly as a result of their effect to increase insulin levels and thus use of glucose and other metabolic fuels. Other side-effects are: gastrointestinal upset, headache and hypersensitivity reactions.\nThe safety of sulfonylurea therapy in pregnancy is unestablished. Prolonged hypoglycemia (4 to 10 days) has been reported in children borne to mothers taking sulfonylureas at the time of delivery. Impairment of liver or kidney function increase the risk of hypoglycemia, and are contraindications. Since other antidiabetic drugs cannot be used either under these circumstances, insulin therapy is typically recommended during pregnancy and in liver and kidney failure, although some of the newer agents offer potentially better options.\nA 2011 Cochrane review found evidence that treatment of LADA using sulfonylureas lead to earlier insulin dependence in approximately 30% of cases.\nA 2014 Cochrane review found tentative evidence that people treated with sulfonylureas have fewer non-fatal cardiovascular events than those treated with metformin (RR 0.7) but a higher risk of severe hypoglycemia (RR 5.6). There was not enough data available to determine the risk of mortality or of cardiovascular mortality. An earlier review by the same group found a statistically significant increase in the risk of cardiovascular death for first generation sulfonylureas relative to placebo (RR 2.6) but there was not enough data to determine the relative risk of first generation sulfonylureas relative to insulin (RR 1.4). Likewise it was not possible to determine the relative mortality risk of second generation sulfonylureas relative to metformin (RR 1.0), insulin (RR 1.0), or placebo. The FDA requires sulfonylureas to carry a label warning regarding increased risk of cardiovascular death.\nA 2020 Cochrane systematic review comparing metformin monotherapy to sulfonylureas did not find enough evidence of reduction of all-cause mortality, serious adverse events, cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke or end-stage renal disease.\nSecond-generation sulfonylureas have increased potency by weight, compared to first-generation sulfonylureas. Similarly, ACCORD (Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes) and the VADT (Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial) studies showed no reduction in heart attack or death in patients assigned to tight glucose control with various drugs.\nInteractions.\nDrugs that potentiate or prolong the effects of sulfonylureas and therefore increase the risk of hypoglycemia include acetylsalicylic acid and derivatives, allopurinol, sulfonamides, and fibrates. Drugs that worsen glucose tolerance, contravening the effects of antidiabetics, include corticosteroids, isoniazid, oral contraceptives and other estrogens, sympathomimetics, and thyroid hormones. Sulfonylureas tend to interact with a wide variety of other drugs, but these interactions, as well as their clinical significance, vary from substance to substance.\nStructure.\nSulfonylureas contain a central \"S\"-arylsulfonylurea structure with a \"p\"-substituent on the phenyl ring (R1) and various groups terminating the urea \"N\" end group (R2). Chemically, this functionality can be easily installed by reacting aryl sulfonamides (R1\u2014C6H4\u2014SO2NH2) with isocyanates (R2\u2014NCO).\nClassification.\nSulfonylureas are divided into 3 classes on basis of therapeutic efficiency of their antidiabetic action:\nThey include acetohexamide, carbutamide, chlorpropamide, glycyclamide (tolcyclamide), metahexamide, tolazamide and tolbutamide.\nThey include glibenclamide (glyburide), glibornuride, gliclazide, glipizide, gliquidone, glisoxepide and glyclopyramide.\nThey include glimepiride, although it is sometimes considered a second-generation drug.\nMechanism of action.\nSulfonylureas bind to and close ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels on the cell membrane of pancreatic beta cells, which depolarizes the cell by preventing potassium from exiting. This depolarization opens voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The rise in intracellular calcium leads to increased fusion of insulin granules with the cell membrane, and therefore increased secretion of mature insulin.\nThere is some evidence that sulfonylureas also sensitize \u03b2-cells to glucose, that they limit glucose production in the liver, that they decrease lipolysis (breakdown and release of fatty acids by adipose tissue) and decrease clearance of insulin by the liver.\nThe KATP channel is an octameric complex of the inward-rectifier potassium ion channel Kir6.x and sulfonylurea receptor SUR which associate with a stoichiometry of 4:4.\nFurthermore, it has been shown that sulfonylureas interact with the nucleotide exchange factor Epac2. Mice lacking this factor exhibited a decreased glucose-lowering effect upon sulfonylurea treatment.\nHistory.\nSulfonylureas were discovered in 1942, by the chemist and co-workers in France, who were studying sulfonamide antibiotics and discovered that the compound sulfonylurea induced hypoglycemia in animals.\nResearch and development (translational research and commercial application development) for sulfonylureas as pharmaceuticals (as diagnostic and therapeutic agents in prediabetes and diabetes) happened in the 1950s and 1960s, as explored at \"Tolbutamide \u00a7 History\".\nResearch and development (translational research and commercial application development) for sulfonylureas as herbicides happened in the 1970s and 1980s, as explored for example in a volume of the Sloan Technology Series focusing on the sociotechnological aspects of agriculture (Canine 1995); the DuPont Experimental Station led this development."}
{"id": "732109", "revid": "14229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732109", "title": "Mosque of Jenne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732110", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732110", "title": "Diabetes of pregnancy", "text": ""}
{"id": "732111", "revid": "14229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732111", "title": "Grand Mosque of Djenn\u00e9", "text": ""}
{"id": "732112", "revid": "14229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732112", "title": "Grand Mosque of Djenne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732113", "revid": "14229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732113", "title": "Grand Mosque of Jenne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732116", "revid": "45957157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732116", "title": "Mazatepec", "text": "Mazatepec is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos. \nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The name Mazatepec means \"hill of deer\". To the north and northeast is Miacatl\u00e1n, to the northwest is Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo, to the south is Amacuzac, to the east is Puente de Ixtla, and to the west is Tetecala.\nThe municipality reported 9,967 inhabitants in the 2015 census.\nHistory.\nMazatepec is a town located in Morelos. The name Mazatepec comes from the Nahuatl mazatl \"\"deer\", and tepetl \"hill\"\". Mazatepec became part of the political and religious cultural center of Xochicalco, which was occupied since the Preclassic (1500-1000 BC) but its greatest development and boom occurred in the Classic, between AD 300 and 900. In the year AD 603, a group of Toltecs settled there. Later, Mazatepec came under the power of the manor of \"Cuauhnahuac\" (Cuernavaca), which in turn was a tributary of the Aztecs. During the colonial era, Mazatepec was integrated into the jurisdiction of Cuernavaca, belonged to the \"Marquisate of the Valley of Oaxaca\" with the name of \"San Lucas Mazatepec\". On this site Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s established the first cattle ranch in Mexico. After Independence (1821), when the State of Mexico was created, Mazatepec was a municipality that belonged to the District of Tetecala, conserving this category when the State of Morelos was created (1869). In prehispanic times Mazatepec was part of a religious and political center under the reign of Xochicalco.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020; two cases were reported in Mazatepec. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Mazatepec reported five confirmed cases and one death from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Mazatepec reported 16 cases, 13 recuperations, and three deaths from the virus as of August 31. Nineteen cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nCulture.\nAttractions and festivals.\n\"La Loma\" (the hill) provides a panoramic view of the town of Mazatepec, including the \"Laguna de Coatetelco\" (Lake Coatetelco). There is a fair in \"La Loma\" on the 5th Friday of Lent. There are brass bands, locally produced ice cream, fireworks, and mechanical rides.\nThe Parish of St. Luke in Mazatepec dates from 1696 and was built by the order of the Franciscans. His feast is celebrated October 17\u201324.\nThe Sanctuary of the Lord of Calvary is built on prehispanic ruins. In the z\u00f3calo (town square) of Mazatepec there is a bronze monument called \"El Origen\" in honor of the name of Mazatepec, which in the Nahuatl language means \"In the Cerro del Venado\".\nThe bullring \"San Lucas\" and the \"Unidad Deportiva de Mazatepec\" (athletic complex) are both located in the municipal seat. There is a week-long celebration in honor of Emiliano Zapata in the bullring during the month of August.\nCuauchichinola is home to a rustic waterpark called, \"Los Ojitos de Agua\" (\"little eyes of water\"). There is a fair in honor of St. Mark on April 25. You can also swim in the Chalma River on the edge of town.\nSanta Cruz is home to \"Ex-hacienda de Santa Cruz Vista Alegre\" which has hosted movies, soap operas, and commercials."}
{"id": "732120", "revid": "9755426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732120", "title": "Miacatl\u00e1n", "text": "Miacatl\u00e1n is a city and municipal seat of the municipality of Miacatl\u00e1n in the Mexican state of Morelos. It stands at .\nTo the north is the State of Mexico and the municipality of Temixco, to the south Puente de Ixtla, Mazatepec and Tetecala, to the east Xochitepec, and to the west Coatl\u00e1n del R\u00edo and the State of Mexico. The city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The municipality reported 26,713 inhabitants in the 2015 census.\n The altitude of Miacatlan is 1,054 meters above sea level and it covers 233,644.30\u00a0km2 of territory, and it is 40\u00a0km from Cuernavaca.\nThe toponym \"Miacatl\u00e1n\" comes from a Nahuatl name \"Mitl\" (arrow), and \"Acatl\" (rod or cane), and \"Tlan\" (place), and means \"place of abundant reeds for arrows\". This is probably in reference to the two lakes in the municipality, \"Coatetelco\" and \"El Rodeo\".\nThe archaeological site of Coatetelco is also in Miacatlan.\nHistory.\nThe history of the municipality of Miacatl\u00e1n goes back to the pre-Hispanic era, it was part of a political and religious center, tributary to Xochicalco, but later it belonged to the Cuauh\u00e1huac manor. Miacatl\u00e1n was conquered by the Aztecs, which made it belong to Tenochtitl\u00e1n. During the colonial period, it was called \"San Francisco Miacatl\u00e1n\" and became part of the \"Marquesado del Valle de Oaxaca\".\nIn 1823 Miacatlan was part of the municipality of Mazatepec, State of Mexico. When Morelos became a state in 1869, Miacatl\u00e1n acquired the category of municipality, including the towns of \"Coatetelco\" and \"Palpan de Barandas\", the ranches of \"Nexapa\" and \"Ojo de Agua\", as well as the Haciendas of \"Acatzingo, La Nigua\", and \"Miacatl\u00e1n\".\nDuring the Mexican Revolution, General Pedro Ojeda fled to the Hacienda de Miacatl\u00e1n after the \"Siege of Cuernavaca\" (1914). Also General \"Francisco V. Pacheco\" was shot on orders of General Emiliano Zapata at \"El Zapote\" in 1917.\n\"Abel Espin Garcia\" of \"Juntos por Morelos\" (Together for Morelos coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018.\nThe community of Coatetelco became a separate municipality on January 1, 2019.\nAs of May 4, 2020, there were 505 infections and 59 deaths in the state of Morelos and four confirmed infections from the COVID-19 pandemic in Miacatlan. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Miacatl\u00e1n reported 14 confirmed cases and two deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Miacatl\u00e1n reported 24 cases, 18 recuperations, and four deaths from the virus as of August 31. Thirty-seven cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nPoints of interest.\nCoatetelco archaeological zone.\nCoatetelco is a pre-Hispanic archaeological site located next to the \"Laguna de Coatetelco\" (Lake Coatetelco) two km from \"Alpuyeca\". Evidence of nomadic groups goes back 25,000 years, with small farming communities settled in during the Early and Mid-Preclassic Periods (900-500 BCE). The Coatetelco apogee was in the Late Preclassical period (500-150 BCE) with communities of 250 to 500 inhabitants. Excavations demonstrate human occupation influenced by Teotihuacan (450-600 CE).\nXochicalco dominated the area during the Epiclassic Period (700 \u2013 900 CE), after which Coatetelco once again became the leading community in the area. Nearly all the standing architecture at the site was built during the Late Postclassical Period (1350\u20131521).\nMost of the excavation was carried out by Ra\u00fal Arana. There is a small pyramid, a ball court, and a circular platform dedicated to the god of wind, \"Eh\u00e9catl\". The tallest structure is the \"Cuauhtlitzin\" temple, which has a staircase with lateral arches. There was also a female stone figure that was called Cuauhtlitzin.\nThere is a museum on the site.\nCulture.\nFiestas, Dances, Traditions\nMusic There are four brass bands that play at the fiestas of \"Santo Tom\u00e1s, Molina, La Sumaya\", and \"Santa Cecilia\".\nHandicrafts. Miacatlan produces ceramics and Palpan produces embroidery.\nFood. Regional foods include goat and mutton \"barbacoa\" and pork \"cochinitas\". \"Tamales de Mojarra\" (a type of fish) in Coatetelco. Cheese and mezcal-based drinks in Palpan."}
{"id": "732121", "revid": "75776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732121", "title": "ECMA-Script", "text": ""}
{"id": "732122", "revid": "23064323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732122", "title": "Ocuituco", "text": "Ocuituco is a town in the Mexican state of Morelos and the municipal head for the Municipality of Ocuituco which includes the towns of Ocuituco, Huejotengo, Huecahuaxco, Huepalcalco, Metepec, and Ocoxaltepec, as well as a number of settlements with fewer than 300 inhabitants. The name comes from Nahuatl \"Okuiltoco\" and means \"Where there are weevils.\" It is one of the 36 municipalities of the state of Morelos. To the north of Ocuitico is M\u00e9xico State, southeast is Zacualpan, east is Tetela del Volc\u00e1n, and southwest is Yecapixtla.\nIt stands at , at 1,920 meters above sea level. It is considered one of the municipalities of the \"Los altos de Morelos\" (Morelos highlands).\nHistory.\nDuring the epiclassic and early postclassic periods, Ocuituco was inhabited by Olmeca-Xicallancas. By the late postclassic, it was inhabited by Xochimilcas, contrasting with most of the rest of Morelos where the people were Tlahuica. Local products included wood and flowers. After being conquered by the Aztec Empire, Ocuituco became the capital of a strategic province. Ocuituco was subject to Xochimilco. In turn, Jumiltepec, Ecatzingo, Hueyapan, Itzlan (near modern Metepec) and Nepopoalco (near modern Tlalmimilulpan) were all subject to Ocuituco. Together they fought wars against Huejotzingo, Huaquechula and Atlixco, and Diego Dur\u00e1n claims that this was because the latter city-states wanted to steal a large jade idol. The province of Ocuituco also included Tlacotepec, Zacualpan, Temoac, Huazulco and Amayuca to the south.\nAfter the Spanish Conquest, Hernan Cort\u00e9s received the submission of the Cacique of Ocuituco. During the Colonial era, Ocuituco was one of the few towns subtracted from the Marquessate of the valley of Oaxaca and was commissioned to Fray Juan de Zumarraga in the year of 1548, as a means of financing the traveling expenses of the monks arriving from Spain. At a later time, the town of Jumiltepec was used for this purpose.\nAfter the historical siege of Cuautla in 1812, Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Morelos y Pav\u00f3n took to the town of Ocuituco to regroup his forces, and then to Chiautla, where he defeated the Spanish chief Par\u00eds.\nOcuituco was one of the most severely affected municipalities during the September 19, 2017 earthquake. 74 people died in Morelos including several in the Ocuituco. 529 homes were destroyed and another 511 were damaged in the municipality.\nJuan Jesus Anzures Garcia of Ecologist Green Party of Mexico (PVEM) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018. One of the biggest concerns is the high rate of crime and violence.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of April 27, 2020; six cases were reported in Ocuituco. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Ocuituco reported 15 confirmed cases and two deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Ocuituco reported 34 cases, 28 recuperations, and five deaths from the virus as of August 31. Sixty-six cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nPopulation.\nThe municipality reported 18,580 inhabitants in the year 2015 census. Fewer than 1% speak a native indigenous language.\nGeography.\nOcuitico has a semi-warm sub-humid climate, with rains starting in summer (From June to October), with medium humidity (75.16%).\nOver 70% of the economy consists of agricultural activities, mainly for corn, peaches, and avocados.\nCommunities.\n\"Ocuituco\" is the municipal seat. It has 4,846 inhabitants and stands at 1,919 meters above sea level. There are three preschools, two elementary schools (grades 1\u22126), one middle school (grades 7\u22129), and one high school (grades 10\u221212). Sister city: Pharr, Texas\n\"Ocoxaltepec\" has 1,338 inhabitants. Ocoxaltepec is located at 2352 meters above sea level. There is one preschool, one elementary school, and one middle school."}
{"id": "732124", "revid": "14965160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732124", "title": "Battle of Svensksund", "text": "The Second Battle of Svensksund (; ) was a naval battle fought in the Gulf of Finland outside the present day city of Kotka on 9 and 10 July 1790. The Swedish naval forces dealt the Russian fleet a devastating defeat that brought an end to the Russo-Swedish War (1788\u20131790). The battle is the biggest Swedish naval victory and the largest naval battle ever in the Baltic Sea. It qualifies among the largest naval battles in history in terms of the number of vessels involved.\nBackground.\nCircumstances in the 1780s, including the war between the Russian Empire and the Ottoman Empire, and the moving of a portion of the Russian Baltic Fleet to the Black Sea, prompted the Swedish king, Gustav III, to attack Russia in 1788. The war was also initiated to distract domestic attention from political problems and for Gustav III to be able to fulfill his role as a successful and powerful monarch.\nGustav's main aim was to recapture some of the territory in Finland that had been lost to the Russians in the war of 1741\u201343. In 1788, he launched a surprise attack against the Russian fleet. The plan was to attack Kronstadt and land a force to assault the capital, St Petersburg.\nThe war was intended to be short and to be won by the assault on St Petersburg, conducted by the navy and \"sk\u00e4rg\u00e5rdsflottan\" (the \"archipelago fleet\"). The latter, officially designated as \"arm\u00e9ns flotta\" (\"fleet of the army\") was a separate branch of the armed forces designed for coastal operations and amphibious warfare in the Baltic. Since its formation in 1756, it had been something of an elite force within the Swedish armed forces. However, after the Battle of Hogland (1788) (a tactical tie but a strategic failure for the Swedes) Gustav lost the initiative and tensions in Sweden rose. The First Battle of Svensksund on 24 August 1789 ended in a Swedish defeat.\nPrelude.\nIn 1790 an attempt to assault Vyborg failed, and the Swedish Navy along with King Gustav himself, was caught in the Bay of Viborg. It managed to escape through the \"Viborg gauntlet\" on 3 July, though with heavy losses to the deep-sea navy. After retreating to Svensksund, King Gustav made a decision to make a stand there. The Swedish coastal fleet was reinforced by 40 ships under Lieutenant-Colonel Carl Olof Cronstedt after the escape from Vyborg. Gustav made the decision to lead the fight personally and divided his forces into four brigades under lieutenant-colonels Carl Olof Cronstedt, Claes Hjelmstjerna, Victor von Stedingk, and Jakob T\u00f6rning. Von Stedingk was to lead the center consisting of two \"hemmema\" (\"Styrbj\u00f6rn\" and \"Starkotter\") and two \"udema\" (\"Torborg\" and \"Ingeborg\") archipelago frigates, brig \"Alexander\", 15 galleys, two half-galleys, and 11 cannon or mortar longboats. T\u00f6rning had the command of the right wing consisting of 39 gun sloops and 22 gun yawls while Hjelmstierna's left wing had 30 gun sloops and 14 gun yawls supported by 12 gun sloops and yawls from Cronstedt's brigade. The rest of Cronstedt's brigade, consisting of the \"turuma\" \"Norden\", one galley and 36 gun sloops and yawls, was to remain in reserve and guard against a possible Russian flanking maneuver. Artillery batteries were constructed on the skerries of Kr\u00e5ksk\u00e4r (between the center and right wings) and Sandsk\u00e4r (between the center and left wings). On 8 July the preparations were completed.\nThe Russian coastal fleet consisted of nine archipelago frigates, 13 xebecs, two mortar ships, four gun prams, three floating batteries, 26 galleys, six schooners, four cutters, 77 gun sloops and 121 lightly armed boats. The Russian fleet carried around 900 cannons compared to 450 Swedish cannons and had clear superiority in both number of ships and men. The Russian coastal fleet was eager to attack, especially on 9 July, the anniversary of Catherine the Great's proclamation as Empress of Russia. Recognizing the failure to decisively defeat the Swedish archipelago fleet a year earlier at the same location, the Russian commander, Prince Charles of Nassau-Siegen, chose to commit his whole force from the south. This was done to prevent the Swedes from escaping to the shelter of Svartholm fortress since Nassau-Siegen was expecting a clear victory, having numerical superiority in ships, artillery as well as in men.\nOn the morning of 9 July Gustav III suddenly named Lieutenant-Colonel Cronstedt as his flag-captain after relieving Colonel George de Frese from his duties. The reason for this sudden change was likely that de Frese had been in favor of withdrawing from Svensksund to a more favorable location while Cronstedt had advocated fighting the Russians at Svensksund.\nBattle.\nAt 08:00 on 9 July the Russian flagship signaled the attack. By 09:30 the first ships had reached firing distance in the western flank but soon after fighting spread throughout the battle lines. The Swedish right wing under Lieutenant Colonel T\u00f6rning met with increasing resistance as the Russian left wing opposing him was reinforced. However, the Swedes were able to move ships from their reserves to support their right wing with a counterattack which managed to lead the Russian left wing into disorder. Meanwhile, an increasingly strong southwesterly wind forced the Russian center deeper between converging Swedish lines. The strong winds also made it difficult for the Russians to aim their guns, a problem affecting the Swedish ships much less, as the Russian ships acted as a wavebreaker in front of them.\nAfter no Russian ships were seen approaching from Fredrikshamn, the Swedes were able to release more ships from their reserves to bolster the Swedish left wing led by Lieutenant Colonel Hjelmstierna. Half of Hjelmstierna's ships were sent to the rear of the Russian fleet through a narrow passage between Legma and Kutsal\u00f6 which in turn forced the Russian right wing to deploy accordingly. However, movement to the back of the line was read as a signal to withdraw by the Russian left wing which started its retreat leaving the Russian center to face the Swedes alone.\nBy the evening it had become apparent that the Swedes were victorious even though the Russian center, consisting of their galleys and largest ships, continued to fight despite unfavorable winds and battle damage. At this time the Swedes were able to fire at the Russian ships from the front as well as from both sides and several Russian ships started drifting into the Swedish battle line. Other Russian ships caught fire or were intentionally set on fire, while a few were beached to avoid sinking. At 20:00 Naussau-Siegen ordered the Russian fleet to withdraw and to destroy drifting Russian ships in order to keep them from being captured. Strong winds made the withdrawal difficult and several ships failed to escape. A few Russian ships ignored the order to withdraw and instead kept fighting until they sank. Fighting did not end until 22:00. The wind calmed down during the night and several Russian ships tried to escape under the cover of darkness but Swedish gun sloops and yawls were sent to hunt them down, and this fighting continued until 09:00 on the morning of 10 July 1790.\nThe Russians lost at least 7,400 of 14,000 men; 1,400 dead, wounded and 6,000 captured, compared with Swedish losses of one udema, five minor vessels and 300 men; others place the number of dead and wounded Swedes to around 600. Among the Russian ships that were lost were 10 \"archipelago frigates\" (sail/oar hybrids) and \"xebecs\", nine half-\"xebecs\" (schooners), 16 galleys, four gun prams and floating batteries, seven bomb vessels, five gun sloops and several other small vessels. Along with 21 other ships the Swedes captured the \"Catarina\", Nassau-Siegen's flagship.\nThe battle of Svensksund is the biggest naval battle ever fought in the Baltic Sea: 500 ships (including supply ships and other ships not involved in combat), over 30,000 men and several thousand cannons. At Svensksund, the Swedes boasted that they destroyed 40 percent of the Russian coastal fleet.\nAftermath.\nSurviving Russian ships gathered at Frederikshamn where the badly depleted fleet was being rebuilt while the Swedish coastal fleet stayed at Svensksund. The Swedes later sent a squadron of 25 gun sloops closer to Frederikshamn but they were turned back on 5 August by the rebuilt Russian coastal fleet. The Swedes withdrew back to Svensksund but the Russians did not give chase.\nThis defeat encouraged Russia to negotiate with Sweden, eventually signing the Treaty of V\u00e4r\u00e4l\u00e4 on 14 August 1790. Neither side gained any territory, however all provisions in the peace treaty of Nystad from 1721 that formally infringed upon Swedish sovereignty were cancelled. After the war the Russians started a massive fortification programme on the eastern, Russian, side of the Kymi river, building the sea fortresses Fort Slava, Fort Elisabeth and the land fortress Kyminlinna. The forts later grew into the port city of Kotka.\nThe Russian frigate \"Sankt Nikolai\" was one of the ships sunk in the battle. She was found in 1948 off Kotka, almost intact. Over 2,300 objects have been recovered from her hull by divers."}
{"id": "732125", "revid": "7611264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732125", "title": "Puente de Ixtla", "text": "Puente de Ixtla is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos. It stands at .\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. The municipality reported 66,435 inhabitants in the year 2015 census.\nThe town gets its name from a 16th-century bridge (\"Puente\") and \"Ixtla\", which comes from Nahuatl \"its\" (obsidian) and \"tla\" (abundance), meaning \"Place where obsidian abounds\".\nHistory.\nPuente de Ixtla belonged to the seigniory of Cuauhnahuac and was thus tributary of the Aztecs. Prehispanic ruins have been found near the Church of San Mateo Apostol.\nA stone bridge was constructed over the Rio Chalma and the village became a place of required passage for the caravans from Acapulco to Mexico City. Legend has it that members of the Jesuits secretly buried a treasure in a cave near the \"rancher\u00eda\" (English: settlement) of Cacahuananche in 1767, the year the religious order was expelled from Nueva Espa\u00f1a.\nA strong earthquake on 7 April 1845, did considerable damage in Puente de Ixtla and may have been responsible for the flooding of the village of Tequesquitengo, Jojutla.\nWith the creation of the Morelos in 1869, Puente de Ixtla was one of the already existing municipalities.\n12 July 1871: annexation of the villages of Xoxocotla, Tehuixtla and of the hacienda of San Jose Vista Hermosa; later, Xoxocotla was attached to the municipality of Jojutla. The town Xoxocotla is scheduled to become an independent municipality on 1 January 2019.\nBetween 1913 and 1914 the population of Puente de Ixtla was evacuated because of the Revolution. One of the marks of the revolution is missing in the belfry of the Church of \"San Mateo\", which was collapsed by a cannonball.\nOn Monday, 26 April 1920, President \u00c1lvaro Obreg\u00f3n, traveling from Iguala, met Francisco Cossio Robelo from Cuernavaca in Puente de Ixtla. This essentially ended the Mexican Revolution in the south of Mexico.\nThe Puente Chalma over the Chalma River along the Cuernavaca-Iguala tollway collapsed on 26 July 2014. Two cars fell into the river and three people were injured.\nMorelos suffered significant damage in the September 7, 2017 earthquake, and seventy-four people were killed in the September 19 earthquake. 23,000 buildings were damaged in the state, including 293 homes destroyed and 816 damaged in Puente de Ixtla.\nMario Ocampo Ocampo of \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" (Together we will make history coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of 1 July 2018. When City Hall failed to pay MXN $1,3000,000 (US$66,540) to a disabled police officer in September 2019, an administrative court judge (\"Tribunal de Justicia Administrativa\") ordered the mayor, trustee, and councilors to all step down for three years.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of 27 April 2020; four cases were reported in Puente de Ixtla. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until 1 June. On 2 June, Puente de Ixtla reported 74 confirmed cases and 13 deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least 13 June. One hundred seventy-five cases were reported on 27 December 2020. On 24 February Puente de Ixtla became the second municipality (after Temixco) in Morelos to vaccinate senior citizens (60+).\nThe \"Brigada Nacional de B\u00fasqueda\" (National Search Brigade), composed of relatives of missing persons, found human remains along the Cuernavaca-Iguala tollway in Puente de Ixtla in July 2020 while on its first excursion into Morelos. The municipality has been under the scourge of several violent gangs, and many people are afraid of reporting them to the police.\nPoints of Interest.\nHacienda de San Jos\u00e9 Vista Hermosa.\nThis 16th-century hacienda founded by Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s is now a luxury restaurant/hotel with 105 rooms.\nEstablished in the 16th century, the hacienda was sold by Pedro Cort\u00e9s Ram\u00edrez de Arellano, grandson of the conqueror, in 1621, to Fray de Dios Guerrero. In the early 18th century, the hacienda was sold to \"Gabriel Yermo\" who in 1820 sold it to \"Manuel Vicente Vidal\", being owned by this family until 1910, when the Mexican Revolution broke out. Emiliano Zapata took over the hacienda, burned alcohol, and distributed sugar among the peasants. The hacienda was restored and the hotel opened in 1945.\nVillagers and local authorities in Tequesquitengo, Jojutla claim that the village was flooded by the Mosso brothers, who \u2013 according to Alfonso Toussaint \u2013 owned the San Jos\u00e9 Vista Hermosa hacienda in the mid-19th century (Mentz, et al., Haciendas de Morelos, Instituto de Cultura de Morelos, National Council for Culture and the Arts, Mexico, 1997), forming Lake Tequesquitengo.\nSierra de Huautla.\nEstablished in 2006, the Sierra de Huautla Biosphere Reserve (REBIOSH) covers in the Balsas River Basin of the municipalities of Puente de Ixtla, Tlaquiltenango, Amacuzac, Tepalcingo, Jojutla. Its rough topology varies from above sea level in the Balsas Basin and constitutes a rich reservoir of endemic species to Mexico. There is a broad range of ecosystem, including low deciduous forest, gallery vegetation, and pine and oak forests. 939 species of plants, 44 species of butterflies, 71 species of mammals, 208 species of birds, 53 species of reptiles, 18 species of amphibians, and 14 species of fish have been noted. Among the species of animals are jaguars, short-horned Baronia butterfly, beaded lizard, military macaw, roufus-backed robin, Balsas screech owl, Pileated flycatcher, mountain lion, ocelot, margay, bobcat, and jaguarundi."}
{"id": "732126", "revid": "28469164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732126", "title": "Temixco", "text": "Temixco is the fourth-largest city in the Mexican state of Morelos. It is in the west-northwest part of the state, from Cuernavaca and from Mexico City.\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality, with which it shares a name. The municipality reported 116,143 inhabitants in 2010, a growth rate of 1.5% for each of the previous ten years. The municipality has an area of .\nHistory.\nPrehispanic History.\nThe area around Xochicalco (In the place of the House of Flowers) was settled in about 200 BCE, although the city reached its apex between AD 650 and 900. Xochicalco was mentioned by Fray Bernardino de Sahag\u00fan in the 16th century, and it may have been settled by refugees from Teotihuacan. The city traded with populations in Oaxaca, the Yucat\u00e1n Peninsula, and the Gulf of Mexico. According to petrographs found in the \"Templo de las Serpientes Emplumadas\", (Temple of the Feathered Serpents) Xochicalco hosted a meeting with representatives from the Maya area, the Gulf Coast, and Oaxaca to adjust the calendar during a solar eclipse while Xochicalco was at its splendor.\nIn about A.D. 830, the Nahuatl-speaking emigrated to the area south of the mountains of Ajusco, in what is the state of Morelos today. At the time of the formation of the Triple Alliance (1428), the only communities in the modern-day municipality of Temixco were \"Acatlipa\" and \"Cuentepec\".\nColonial Era.\nAfter the Spanish conquest of 1521, Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s was granted the title Marqu\u00e9s del Valle de Oaxaca including almost all of modern Morelos. The villages of Temixco were Acatlipa, San Agust\u00edn Tetlama, and San Sebasti\u00e1n Cuentepec.\nMart\u00edn Cort\u00e9s, 2nd Marquis of the Valley of Oaxaca granted lands to religious orders and wealthy Spanish were able to establish the first sugar-cane plantations or \"haciendas\". On July 29. 1617, Don Francisco Barbero of Copaltepeque established the \"Hacienda of Temixco\" on 1,755 hectares of land. Later, additional land was purchased from the native peoples. The first installation was the sugar press (\"trapiche\"), and at the beginning of the 18th century, it became an \"ingenio\" for production of sugar, rum, alcohol and other products. Other small presses were established at \"Rivas\", \"Tomalaca\", and \"San Jos\u00e9\". The hacienda took the name \"Nuestra Se\u00f1ora de la Concepci\u00f3n\" (Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception).\nThe owner of the hacienda, Miguel de Zia, seized land in Xochitepec and Alpuyeca in 1715 with the support of Fray Sim\u00f3n Roa of the Holy Inquisition. In 1719 the people of these communities complained, but Xochitepec never recovered its land. Indigenous of Alpuyeca rose against the hacienda in 1747, only to be arrested by Fray Miguel de Nava of Cuernavaca.\n19th Century.\nIn 1808, don Gabriel Joaqu\u00edn de Yermo celebrated his wife's birthday by freeing 200 slaves from his hacienda in Temixco. This is why so few Black people participated in the Independence movement of 1810 but took the side of the Spanish.\nYermo led the September 15, 1808 \"golpe de estado\" (French &amp; English: \"Coup d'\u00e9tat\") against Viceroy Jos\u00e9 de Iturrigaray, who was replaced the following day by Viceroy Pedro de Garibay, ending the criollos' \"Patriotas de Fernando VII\" attempt to legally achieve independence. When the Mexican War of Independence broke out in 1810, Gabriel Joaqu\u00edn de Yermo converted the hacienda into a supply center for the Royalists.\nThe State of Mexico was created in 1824, and the District of Cuernavaca was formed. The hacienda of Temixco was included in the municipality of Xochitepec within the District of Cuernavaca. Temixco became part of the State of Morelos when it was formed on April 17, 1869.\n20th Century.\nThere were two battles in the hacienda of Temixco in 1914. The first was on May 26, when the Zapatistas was able to take the hacienda, and the second was in early June when the Zapatistas used the hacienda as a staging ground for the Siege of Cuernavaca. In 1915, once the Zapatistas took control of Mexico City, they confiscated all the ruined alcohol distilleries. Gral. Genovevo de la O was assigned to get Temixco running again.\nIn 1921 Temixco was elevated to the category of \"Congregaci\u00f3n\" and the town took the name \"Real de Temixco\". It was part of the municipality of Cuernavaca. The Ejido de Temixco was formed in 1924.\nThe Municipality of Temixco was created on March 5, 1933, including the towns of Tetlama, Cuentepec, Acatlipa, and Temixco.\nOn December 8, 1935, the \"Pueblo Nuevo del Puente (Alta Palmira)\" was established in Cuernavaca. In 1956 it was transferred to Temixco.\nIn the 1940s the \"Comit\u00e9 Japon\u00e9s de Ayuda Mutua\" (CJAM; \"Japanese Committee of Mutual Aid\"), a Japanese-Mexican organization based in Mexico City, obtained a hacienda on of land in Temixco from Alejandro Lacy so it could house newly-arriving Japanese coming from other parts of Mexico. In 1942, during World War II, the hacienda of Temixco became a concentration camp. The Japanese had moved in by 1943. A school for Japanese students was established in Temixco to serve those on the hacienda. Eventually, Mexican parents began asking for their children to attend the Temixco Japanese school.\nThe Hacienda of Temixco continued to cultivate sugar cane until 1968 when it became a water park. Today it includes swimming pools, a wave pool, a river, and athletic fields.\nDue to migration from other states, the population of Temixco grew quickly in the 1970s, and new colonies such as Rub\u00e9n Jaramillo, Lomas de Guadalupe, 10 de Abril, and La Azteca were added. The town of \"Pueblo Viejo\" which previously belonged to Cuernavaca, became a part of Temixco in 1990.\nThe General Mariano Matamoros Airport opened on April 15, 1988 under control of the State of Morelos and came under federal control in 1992.\nTemixco was elevated to the status of \"ciudad\" (city) on March 7, 1990.\n21st Century.\nConstruction on a bridge to connect Mexican Federal Highway 95D in Apatlaco, Ayala and the Cuernavaca Airport in Temixco was begun in 2012 and the project ended in November 2012. As of this writing (April 2019), the bridge is incomplete and there is no connection to Temixco.\nTemixco has been plagued by violence during much of the 21st century. Mayor Gisela Mota Ocampo was shot outside her home on January 2, 2016. She died a few months later and was replaced by Irma Camacho Garc\u00eda from 2016 to 2018. Camacho Garc\u00eda had a tumultuous rule, becoming ill and dying six months later from cardiorespiratory arrest in July 2017. Then, a battle between rival drug gangs on November 30, 2017, left six dead, including a baby. In 2020, Gambia Lozano, who worked for the presidency of Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto, and four members of his family were murdered by the Colombian drug cartel \"El Se\u00f1or\u00f3n\" in May 2020.\nJazmin Juana Solano Lopez of Juntos Haremos Historia (Together we will make history coalition) was elected municipal president in the 2018 Mexican general election.\nThe Canadian firm Alamos Gold proposed an open-pit gold mine in Tetlama in 2020.\nMorelos had its first case of infection during the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico in mid-March, about the same time that Mexico entered Phase 2 of the pandemic and schools were closed. The National Guard was called for its help in closing swimming pools in condominiums. Three hundred eighty-three cases were reported on December 27, 2020. After health workers were vaccinated, on February 17 Temixco became the first municipality in Morelos to vaccinate senior citizens (60+) with 15,170 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine.\nCommunities.\nThere are 36 communities in the municipality of Temixco and a population of 108,126; 92.6% urban and 7.4% rural. The population density is 1,052.1 persons/km2\nTemixco is the capital of the municipality. It is located at at a height of 1,290 meters (4,232 feet). It has a population of 89,915 including 36,185 minors and 7,613 adults over 60. 1,189 people live in Indigenous homes and 530 people speak an Indigenous language. 31,651 people have Social Security. There are 22,089 homes; 1,413 have a dirt floor; 2,242 consist of a single room; 20,744 have water and sewage; 21,011 have electricity; 2,560 have a computer, and 20,338 have television. The average education level is 8 years. Temixco is 14 kilometers (8.7 miles) from Cuernavaca and 101\u00a0km (62.8 miles) from Mexico City.\nCuentepec is located at , 1,390 meters (4,560 feet) above sea level. It has a population of 3,549, of whom 3,514 speak an Indigenous language. It is 33\u00a0km (20.5 miles) from the municipal capital and three km (two miles) from the archaeological zone of Xochicalco. The adventure park \"Cuentepec Extremo\" is found within the community.\nSan Agust\u00edn Tetlama is located at , 1,285 meters (4216 feet) above sea level. It has a population of 1,388.\nCampo Sotelo is located at and is located at 1,230 meters (4,035 feet) above sea level. It has a population of 560 people. It is located 2.7\u00a0km (1.7 miles) from the City of Temixco.\nSolidaridad is located at and is located at 1,320 meters (4,331 feet) above sea level. It has a population of 501 people. It is located 7\u00a0km (4.3 miles) from the City of Temixco.\nAcatlipa (from Nahuatl, meaning \"Sanctuary of the god of wind\") is south of the city of Temixco bordering Xochitepec. It consists of fifteen neighborhoods and includes the \"Ojo de Agua\" water park. Its three most important festivals are April 2 (the town anniversary), November 30 (San Andr\u00e9s Apostol), and January 20 (Immaculate Conception).\nEconomy.\nAgriculture and ranching.\nAgriculture accounts for about one-third of the employment in the municipality, although there is little land available for it. The major agricultural communities are Temixco, Acatlipa, Cuentepec, Tetlama, and Pueblo Viejo. The principal crops are corn, beans, sorghum, and peanuts. Flowers, particularly roses, also make up an important crop, with a value of MXN $23,000,000 in 2010.\nRanching is of minor importance, with pigs and chickens being the most important.\nIndustry and mining.\nCeramics are important in Colonia Tres de Mayo, and there are a number of small-scale clothing factories. Pottery is made in Cuentepec. Bricks and other materials for construction are manufactured.\nSand is mined in Lomas del Carril and Alta Palmira, principally for construction. There are unexploited lime resources in Tetlama.\nTourism.\nTourism mostly centers around the two water parks and the Xochicalco archaeological site, which includes a museum. There are hotels, restaurants, and night clubs. There are movie theaters in Temixco and Acatlipa.\n\"Cuentepec Extremo\" is an adventure park in Cuentepec. The main attraction is a cave that offers four rappel lines that lead to the Tembembe River. The park offers eight zip lines, camping, and hiking, and there are prehistoric cave paintings.\nWater Parks.\n\"Ex-Hacienda de Temixco\" is located in the center of the city. Located on the grounds of a 16th-century sugar cane hacienda, the park has 20 pools, a wave pool, a wild river, four water slides, restaurants, picnic area, soccer field, and parking area.\n\"Parque Acu\u00e1tico Ojo de Agua\" in Acatlipa has an Olympic pool, water slide, picnic area, hanging bridge, and mini zoo.\nCommerce.\nThere are a variety of stores with clothing, shoes, construction materials, food and groceries, and hardware in the larger communities. There is a supermarket owned by a major chain in Temixco.\nTransportation and communications.\nPublic transportation.\nLocal transportation within the Greater Cuernavaca area is provided by vans called \"rutas\". Rutas 1, 3, 16, and 20 serve Temixco with connections to Cuernavaca and Xochitepec.\nTwo bus lines serve the Temixco-Mexico City route: \"Pullman de Morelos\" and \"Mi Bus\".\nTaxis and shared-ride services (Uber) also serve the community.\nHighways.\nMexican Federal Highway 95D, also called \"Autopista del Sol\" crosses the municipality from north to south (Mexico City \u2014 Cuernavaca \u2014 Xochitepec \u2014 Acapulco) with several exits in Temixco. There is also bridge from 95D at Apatlaco that leads nowhere.\nMexican Federal Highway 95 parallels 95D but passes through the center of Temixco and Acatlipa. State highways connect Temixco \u2014 Emiliano Zapata and Acatlipa \u2014 Tezoyuca, (Emiliano Zapata municipality). There are local highways connecting other communities, the Xochicalco archaeological site, and the Cuernavaca Airport.\nGeneral Mariano Matamoros Airport.\nThe Cuernavaca Airport is located in Tetlama. The airport opened on April 15, 1988; due to its short runway of only , it has offered on-again / off-again service since then. The airport currently hosts a school of aviation and there are plans to extend the runway and open the airport to commercial traffic soon (written April 13, 2019).\nRadio, television, and Internet service.\nW Radio Morelos, XHTIX 100.1 FM, broadcasts from Temixco.\nOf the 24,045 homes in the municipality, 21,884 (91%) have a television and 11,423 (47.5%) have computers. Axtel, Telmex, and Izzi Telecom provide Internet connections.\nEducation.\nThere are 33 public and 4 private elementary schools in the municipality. There are two public general middle schools and five private ones. There are also three public technical middle schools, and five \"telescundarias.\" There are one public high school and seven private high schools.\nThere are four private universities:\nPrivate elementary and middle schools include:"}
{"id": "732127", "revid": "7357706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732127", "title": "Randal Graves", "text": ""}
{"id": "732129", "revid": "9815435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732129", "title": "Grote Kerk, Haarlem", "text": "The Grote Kerk or St.-Bavokerk is a Reformed Protestant church located on the central market square (Grote Markt) in the Dutch city of Haarlem. \nThe church was built in 1307. Prior to the Reformation, Grote Kerk was a Catholic cathedral after which it adopted the Reformed faith; at present, another Haarlem church called the Cathedral of Saint Bavo now serves as the main cathedral for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Haarlem-Amsterdam.\nHistory.\nThis church is an important landmark for the city of Haarlem and has dominated the city skyline for centuries. It is built in the Gothic style of architecture, and it became the main church of Haarlem after renovations in the 15th century made it significantly larger than the Janskerk (Haarlem). First mention of a church on this spot was made in 1307, but the wooden structure burned in the 14th century. The church was rebuilt and promoted to chapter church in 1479 and only became a cathedral in 1559. The main architects were Godevaert de Bosscher and Steven van Afflighem (nave), and Evert van Antwerpen (transept). The term \"cathedral\" was never really associated with this church, since it was only consecrated as a cathedral in 1559, which was already in the middle of the period known as the Protestant Reformation. The church was confiscated only 19 years later during the \"Haarlemse noon\" in 1578, when it was converted to Protestantism. It was dedicated to Saint Bavo at some time before 1500, though there exists a curious painting in the collection of the Catholic Cathedral of St. Bavo illustrating the miracle of St. Bavo saving Haarlem from the Kennemers in a scene from the 13th century. This painting was painted a century after the Catholics were banned from their church, and may have been a commemorative painting referring to the defense of the Church and the Catholic faith as well as the defense of the city.\nChristianity in Haarlem.\nHaarlem has had a Christian parish church since the 9th century. This first church was a \"daughter church\" of Velsen, which itself was founded in 695 by St. Willibrord. This early first church was a wooden church on the same site of the current Sint-Bavokerk. Extensions and expansions over the centuries led to its formal consecration in 1559 when the first bishop Nicolaas van Nieuwland was appointed. Only 19 years later, after the Spanish occupation ended (they won the Siege of Haarlem) and Haarlem reverted to the Protestant House of Orange, the church was confiscated during the episode known as the \"Haarlemse noon\" and converted to Protestantism as part of the Protestant Reformation.\nAt this time most of the art and silver artefacts were also seized and what was not sold or destroyed has survived in the Haarlem municipal collection, which is now in the collection of the Frans Hals Museum. The Haarlem Catholics took what they could carry with them and went underground, meeting thereafter in various \"schuilkerken\", the most prominent ones known as the \"St. Franciscus statie\" and the \"St. Josephs statie\". Eventually, the St. Josephstatie built a new church across from the Janskerk called the St. Josephkerk, and this church, after growing and becoming a cathedral again, built a new cathedral on the Leidsevaart in the 19th century. Since the building of this new \"Cathedral of St. Bavo\", there has been much confusion about the name of the Bavochurch, since as a Protestant church it is not even dedicated to Saint Bavo. For this reason it is officially called \"Grote Kerk\", which just means \"Big Church\".\nFires.\nOn 22 May 1801 there was a fire caused by lightning which struck the tower. Another disaster was prevented in 1839 by Martijn Hendrik Kretschman, the guard of the tower. He stopped Jan Drost who worked for the church. Drost had tried to set fire to the pipe organ and piano by throwing hot coals on top of it. Drost committed suicide and he was buried in the tower.\nIn the church was a high sentry box reserved for fire-watchers. If they saw a fire in the city then they would signal using red flags so that the guards in the main guard house opposite could react. This sentry position was still in use in 1919.\nIn the renovation of the 1930s an automatic sprinkler system was installed in the tower, that could extinguish a fire 70m high in the tower.\nExterior.\nThough the exterior of the church seems timeless, it changed twice in the past 500 years; once when all statuary was removed from the outer niches during the \"Haarlemse Noon\", and the second time in the late 19th century when a \"more Gothic look\" was given to the church by adding some fake ramparts to the roof edge. This can be seen easily when comparing pictures made before and afterwards.\nAround the church various low buildings have been built up against it, most notably the former fish market called De Vishal, which today is used for exhibiting modern art. On the south side a series of low buildings used as shops are built up against various church buildings such as the former \"librye\" or library, and sacristy. In 1630 the architect Salomon de Bray designed and built the consistory which still exists today.\nInterior.\nThe interior of the church has also changed little over the years, though the inner chapels suffered greatly during the Beeldenstorm, and many stained-glass windows have been lost to neglect. Fortunately, the interior has been painted many times by local painters, most notably by Pieter Jansz Saenredam and the Berckheyde brothers. Based on these paintings, work has been done to reconstruct the interior so various items such as \"rouwborden\" or \"mourning shields\" hang again today in their \"proper\" place.\nStained glass windows.\nThe stained glass windows of the Bavo have suffered through the years from neglect. It is hard to imagine that Haarlem was an important center for stained glass art in the 16th century, since so little evidence of it still exists in Haarlem. After the Reformation, Haarlem promoted the stories of the \"Damiaatjes\" and the associated \"Wapenvermeerdering\" and produced many windows with this central story, which it presented as a gift to other churches and town halls. Today the original Haarlem gift by Willem Thibaut still hangs in the Janskerk (Gouda) as designed. That window gives an impression of the type of window that once hung in the Western wall. When the famous Muller organ was installed, the glass on the west side of the church (now only known to us from the painting by the local painter Job Berckheyde) with the \"Wapenvermeerdering\", was dismantled and bricked up. The sketches for this glass have survived and are in the possession of the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam and were drawn by Barend van Orley.\nIn the church today, the lack of historic colorful windows has been made up for by installing windows from other, demolished or defunct churches, while modern artists have created new themes. A beautiful large blue window hanging on the northern side greets the visitor who enters through the double doors on the Groenmarkt. This window was made to personify peace and harmony, and was made by the local glass artist Michel van Overbeeke, who received a local prize of culture for this in 2009 (\"De Olifant\").\nOrgan.\nThe organ of the Sint-Bavokerk (the \"Christiaan M\u00fcller\" organ) is one of the world's most historically important organs. It was built by the Amsterdam organ builder Christian M\u00fcller, with stucco decorations by the Amsterdam artist Jan van Logteren, between 1735 and 1738. Upon completion it was the largest organ in the world with 60 voices and 32-foot pedal-towers. In \"Moby-Dick\" (1851), Herman Melville describes the inside of a whale's mouth:\nMany famous musicians played this organ, including Mendelssohn, H\u00e4ndel and the 10-year-old Mozart, who played it in 1766. The organ was modified a number of times in the 19th and 20th centuries and most drastically altered in the renovation by Marcussen between 1959 and 1961. Further voicing work was undertaken between 1987 and 2000. Today concerts are regularly held in the church, and all through the year special opening times are organized so the public can walk in free of charge to listen to this famous organ in action.\nA local story goes to say that the bass of the organ was so low, the mortar in between the brimstones started to brittle to nothing.\nGraves.\nUntil 1831 graves were allowed in the church, and many illustrious Haarlemmers through the centuries are buried there. Often people were buried under family gravestones, and the family shields of illustrious families are mounted on diamond shaped \"plaques\" hanging on the walls. Other illustrious Haarlemmers were buried in individual graves such as the rich Pieter Teyler van der Hulst and Willem van Heythuisen. The painters Maarten van Heemskerck (as a former church koster, he is buried in the kerstkapel), Frans Hals (who was buried in his first wife's grandfather's grave, Nicolaes Ghyblant, but who received his own gravestone in 1962), Saenredam himself (in the South choir way near the entrance), and Jacob van Ruysdael and Salomon van Ruysdael. The two circus curiosities, the giant Daniel Cajanus with his midget friend Jan Paap, are buried there. The last burial there was for Willem Bilderdijk.\nA local story is that under stone number 7 near the choir gate, there is a grave of a man who used to hit his mother as a child. After a time his hand started growing above his grave, and a copper plate had to be installed on the grave to stop the hand from growing.\nThere is also a story that only the rich could afford to be buried in the church. Regardless of wealth, the corpses rotted as they lay under the stone floor, producing a foul odor. This gave rise to the phrase \"Stinking Rich\".\nBells.\nIn 1429 the bells from the former parish church which was on the same spot where the 'Grote Kerk' was built, were hung in a large wooden belfry (klokhuis) behind the choir close of the church. It was demolished in 1804, to strengthen the finances of the city council, and the bells were sold. In 1918, a smaller iron replica was built on the same spot by the firm of Joh. Enschede where the guilder billets were printed.\nToday the Haarlem Grote Kerk tower is provided with a big bourdon bell from 1503 named Roeland, made by the Kampen bellfounder Geert van Wou. It sounds with tone A0 and has a weight of approx. 4900\u00a0kg This biggest bell in the tower strikes the hour. In 1662 Fran\u00e7ois Hemony from Amsterdam made a carillon of 33 bells, later it was enlarged by his brother Pieter Hemony to 35 bells. In 1968 25 bells were recast by Eijsbouts in Asten, and it was expanded to a concert carillon of 47 bells. The carillon is tuned in meantone temperament based on Des1 (Dflat1). Since this restoration the old 25 bells by Hemony hang in the tower of the Bakenesserkerk also in Haarlem. In 2010, the Grote Kerk carillon was redesigned to improve the play ability. The city carillonneur plays the bells weekly on the market days and on Tuesday in the summer there is a concert just before the weekly organ concert played often by guest players. The city carillonneur also re-inserts the pins on the drum twice a year. The drum plays to announce the hour strike and all other quarters of the hour. In Haarlem there is also a very short tune on every seven and half minute. So the drum chimes eight times in the hour. Rien Donkersloot is appointed by the municipality of Haarlem as the city carillonneur of Haarlem.\nAccording to the local legend known as the \"Wapenvermeerdering\", or \"Legend of the Haarlem shield\", the two upper bells in the tower were taken from Damiette (\"Damiate\" in Dutch) during the Fifth Crusade by Haarlem knights and were placed in the tower. In reality, they were a gift by Johannes Dircks, a bell-maker from Aalst to Nicolaas van Nieuwland, the bishop of Haarlem, in 1562. Since then the two bells were chimed every evening between 21:00 and 21:30 o'clock, to give a signal for closing the city gates. In 1732 the bells were recast, and installed, by Jan Albert de Grave a bellfounder from Amsterdam. Since Haarlem was no longer a \"vesting stad\" or walled city, the tradition of the bells continued, to commemorate the conquest of Damiette on August 25, 1219. The bells have names Piet and Hein.\nContemporary References.\nThe church is mentioned by Corrie ten Boom in her book, \"The Hiding Place\"."}
{"id": "732131", "revid": "4796325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732131", "title": "Djenn\u00e9", "text": "Djenn\u00e9 (; also known as Dj\u00e9nn\u00e9, Jenn\u00e9, and Jenne) is a town and urban commune in the Inland Niger Delta region of central Mali. The town is the administrative centre of the Djenn\u00e9 Cercle, one of the eight subdivisions of the Mopti Region. The commune includes ten of the surrounding villages and in 2009 had a population of 32,944.\nThe history of Djenn\u00e9 is closely linked with that of Timbuktu. Between the 15th and 17th centuries much of the trans-Saharan trade in goods such as salt, gold, and slaves that moved in and out of Timbuktu passed through Djenn\u00e9. Both towns became centres of Islamic scholarship. Djenn\u00e9's prosperity depended on this trade and when the Portuguese established trading posts on the African coast, the importance of the trans-Saharan trade and thus of Djenn\u00e9 declined.\nThe town is famous for its distinctive adobe architecture, most notably the Great Mosque which was built in 1907 on the site of an earlier mosque. To the south of the town is Djenn\u00e9-Djenno, the site of one of the oldest known towns in sub-Saharan Africa. It is one of the oldest cities in Mali and West Africa as well as oldest continuously inhabited cities in the World. Djenn\u00e9 together with Djenn\u00e9-Djenno were designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1988.\nGeography.\nDjenn\u00e9 is situated northeast of Bamako and southwest of Mopti. The town sits on the floodplain between the Niger and Bani rivers at the southern end of the Inland Niger Delta. The town has an area of around and during the annual floods becomes an island that is accessed by causeways. The Bani river is south of the town and is crossed by ferry.\nFor administrative purposes the town forms part of the commune of Djenn\u00e9 which covers an area of 302 square kilometers and consists of the town and ten of the surrounding villages: Ball\u00e9, Diabolo, Gomnikouboye, Kamaraga, K\u00e9ra, Niala, Soala, Syn, Velingara and Yenleda. The population figures are for the commune and include these villages. The commune is bounded to the north by the communes of Ouro Ali and Derary, to the south by the commune of Dandougou Fakala, to the east by the communes of Fakala and Madiama and to the west by the commune of Pondori. The town is the administrative center (\"chef-lieu\") of the Djenn\u00e9 Cercle, one of eight administrative subdivisions of the Mopti Region.\nClimate.\nThe weather is hot and dry throughout much of the year. Average daily maximum temperatures in the hottest months, April and May, are around 40\u00a0\u00b0C. Temperatures are slightly cooler, though still very hot, from June through September, when practically all of the annual rainfall occurs. Only the winter months of December and January have average daily maximum temperatures below 32\u00a0\u00b0C. Between December and March the warm dry north-easterly Harmattan wind blows from the Sahara. When it blows strongly, the dust-laden wind reduces visibility and creates a persistent haze. The annual rainfall is around 550\u00a0mm but varies greatly from year to year. August is normally the wettest month.\nAnnual flood.\nIn Djenn\u00e9 the annual flood produced by Bani and Niger rivers begins in July and reaches a maximum in October. During this period, the town of Djenn\u00e9 becomes an island and the Souman-Bani channel that passes just to the east of the town fills and connects the Bani and Niger rivers. The year-to-year variation in the height of the flood leads to a large variation in the area of land that is flooded. This has important consequences for the local agriculture. The drought that began in the early 1970s resulted in a big reduction in the volume of water flowing in the Niger and Bani rivers. The effect on the Bani was particularly severe as the reduction in flow was much greater than the reduction in rainfall. The annual discharge of the river has not returned to the volumes experienced in the 1950s and 1960s. It is only during the flood season (mid-July till December) that the Bani river between Djenn\u00e9 and Mopti is easily navigable. At other times of the year, sandbars lie close to the water surface. When the French explorer Ren\u00e9 Cailli\u00e9 made the journey to Mopti in a small boat in March 1828, he was \"obliged several times to unload the vessel in order to pass over sandbanks.\"\nTalo dam.\nIn 2006 the Talo Dam was constructed on the Bani River to irrigate parts of the floodplain near the town of San. The dam is located 43\u00a0km west of San and 110\u00a0km upstream from Djenn\u00e9. The dam functions as a weir in that water can flow over the top of the retaining wall. The construction of the dam was highly controversial. The environmental impact assessment commissioned by the African Development Bank was criticised for not fully taking into account the hydrological impact downstream of the dam. The 0.18\u00a0km3 of water retained by the dam represents 1.3% of the average annual discharge of the river (the average for the period 1952\u20132002 is 13.4\u00a0km3). From the published information it is unclear how much of the total discharge will be diverted for irrigation and, of the diverted water, how much will drain back into the river. The downstream effect of the dam will be to delay the arrival of the annual flood and to reduce its intensity.\nDjenn\u00e9 dam.\nIn May 2009 the African Development Bank approved funding for an irrigation dam/weir to be built on the Bani near Soala, a village within the commune situated south of Djenn\u00e9. The dam is one element in a 6-year 33.6\u00a0billion CFA franc (66\u00a0million USD) program that also includes the building of a dam on the Sankarani River near Kourouba and the extension of the area irrigated by the Talo dam. The proposed Djenn\u00e9 dam will retain 0.3\u00a0km3 of water, significantly more than the Talo dam. It will allow the \"controlled flooding\" of of the Pondori floodplain (on the left bank of the river to the south of Djenn\u00e9) to allow the cultivation of rice and the irrigation of an additional for growing 'floating grass' (\"Echinochloa stagnina\" known locally as \"bourgou\") for animal feed.\nHistory.\nDjenn\u00e9-Jeno.\nLying south-east of the present town is the archaeological site of Djenn\u00e9-Djeno, meaning 'old Djenne', one of the earliest and most important urban sites in West Africa. The name of the town itself was Djoboro, and it was founded by Soninke immigrants from the Wagadou region during an increasingly dry period that made the Inner Niger Delta more habitable. Excavations undertaken by Susan and Roderick McIntosh in 1977 and 1981 indicate that Djenn\u00e9-J\u00e9no was first settled around 200\u00a0BC. Oral traditions recount a legendary founder named Maafir, who was from Yemen and descended from the Biblical and Quranic figure Esau. Djoboro developed into a large walled urban complex by between 300 and 850\u00a0AD. It estimated city and its environs, including the later site of modern-day Djenne, had approximately from 10,000 to 26,000 inhabitants in 800 CE. 25 chiefs ruled the city before the coming of Islam in the late 600s, although Siigha, the first Muslim ruler, is also presumably mythical, considering his supposed connections to companions of the prophet Muhammad. \nPreliminary archaeological excavations at sites within modern Djenn\u00e9 indicate that the present town was first settled after 1000\u00a0AD. Oral traditions, failing to distinguish between Djenne and Djoboro, claim that it was founded in 635 around the home of a powerful djinn, Shamharoush, who had been blessed by the prophet Muhammad. The name 'Djenne' derives from \"jannah\", the Islamic paradise.\nAfter 1100\u00a0AD the population of Djenne-Djeno declined and by 1400\u00a0AD the site had been abandoned. Many smaller settlements within a few kilometres of Djenn\u00e9-J\u00e9no also appear to have been abandoned around this date. The cause of this demographic collapse is unknown, but may have included new diseases arriving in the area through trans-Saharan trade, or warfare. Djenne, however, was fully occupied, and survived as a center of regional trade.\nMali Empire.\nDjenne had a complicated relationship with the Mali Empire, which rose to power in the 13th century. Seventeenth century indigenous chronicles give conflicting accounts of the status of the town. Al-Sadi in his \"Tarikh al-Sudan\" claims that the Malians attacked the town ninety-nine times but that Djenn\u00e9 was never conquered while the other major chronicle, the \"Tarikh al-fattash\", describes the chief of Djenn\u00e9 as a humble vassal of the Malian emperor. Djenn\u00e9 was probably a tribute-paying sometimes-vassal, with recurring episodes of conflict and commercial coercion pitting the city-state's military and economic prowess against the powerful Malian state, which controlled most of the trade routes in the area. \nThe first direct mention of Djenn\u00e9 in European sources is in connection with the trans-Saharan trade in gold, salt and slaves. In a letter written in Latin in 1447 by Antonio Malfante from the Saharan oasis of Tuwat to a merchant in Genoa, Malfante reports on what he had learnt from an informant about the trans-Saharan trade. He lists several 'states' including one called 'Geni' and describes the Niger River \"Through these lands flows a very large river, which at certain times of the year inundates all these lands. This river passes by the gates of Thambet [Timbuktu]. ... There are many boats on it, by which they carry on trade.\"\nSonghai Empire.\nIn the fifteenth century the Portuguese established trading-posts along the Atlantic coast of West Africa in an attempt to tap into the overland trade in gold bullion. It is from Portuguese sources that we learn a little more about the town. With the Mali Empire in retreat, Djenne may have fought a war against the rising Songhai Empire under Sonni Sulayman Dama, a conflict whose echoes were reported by Diogo Gomes on the Gambia River. In 1471, Djenne was conquered by Sonni Ali soon after his seizure of Timbuktu. The siege lasted approximately 6 months. The flooding of the Bani protected the city, but also allowed Ali to bring his powerful river fleet to bear, blockading the city until. The sultan died during the siege, and his young son made peace with the Songhai and his mother married Sonni Ali, establishing the city's high political position within the empire. Djenne did not support Askia Muhammad I when he rebelled against Sonni Ali's successor Sonni Baru, but quickly acquiesced to his seizure of power.\nUnder the Songhai, Djenne functioned as one of the key hubs in a thriving trade economy centered on the middle Niger river valley, with a population of approximately 40,000 people. Duarte Pacheco Pereira, a sea-captain and explorer, mentions Djenn\u00e9 in his \"Esmeraldo de situ orbis\" which he wrote between 1506 and 1508: \"...the city of Jany, inhabited by Negroes and surrounded by a stone wall, where there is great wealth of gold; tin and copper are greatly prized there, likewise red and blue cloths and salt\u00a0...\" The Portuguese historian Jo\u00e3o de Barros, writing in the 1520s, mentions Djenn\u00e9 and the export of gold from the island of Arguin off the coast of present-day Mauritania: \"Genn\u00e1 ... which in former times was more famous than Timbuktu\u00a0... As it is further to the west than Timbuktu, it is usually frequented by peoples of its neighbourhood, such as the \u00c7aragoles [Sarakolle i.e. Sonike], Fullos [Fulani], Jalofos [Wolof], Azanegues \u1e62anh\u0101ja, Brabixijs Bar\u0101b\u012bsh, Tigurarijs [people of Gur\u0101ra], and Luddayas [\u016ad\u0101ya], from whom, through the Castle of Arguim and all that coast, gold came into our hands.\"\nSalt was mined at Taghaza in the Sahara and transported south via Timbuktu and Djenn\u00e9. Gold from the Akan goldfields in the forested area between the Komo\u00e9 and Volta rivers was traded at the town of Begho (Bitu) and then transported north through Djenn\u00e9 and Timbuktu and across the Sahara to North Africa where it was exchanged for merchandise such as cloth, copper and brass. However, by the early sixteenth century, the Portuguese had established trading posts along the African coast and were shipping large quantities of gold from Elmina in present-day Ghana. This maritime trade competed with the trans-Saharan gold trade. \nBetween the 14th and 17th centuries Djenn\u00e9 and Timbuktu were also important centers of Islamic study, in addition to their roles as entrep\u00f4ts. Under Songhai administration, the city was led by the Jenne-\"koi\" or king, but also had a Jenne-\"mondio\" who answered to the Askias and was in charge of collecting taxes and customs duties.\nThe town is mentioned by Leo Africanus in his \"Descrittione dell\u2019Africa\" which was completed in 1526 but not published until 1550. He had visited Mali with an uncle in around 1510 and perhaps again 3 years later. At several places in his book Leo Africanus describes the Niger River as flowing westwards from Timbuktu to Djenn\u00e9. This has led some scholars to suggest that his account of Djenn\u00e9 was unlikely to be based on first hand observations and was probably based on information obtained from other travellers. He describes Djenn\u00e9 (which he refers to as Gheneo, Genni and Ghinea) as a village with houses constructed of clay with straw roofs. He mentions an abundance of barley, rice, livestock, fish and cotton and also the importance of trade with north Africa in which merchants exported cotton and imported European cloth, copper, brass, and arms. In the trade with Timbuktu merchants visited during the annual flood using small narrow canoes. Unstamped gold was used for coinage.\nAfter the Songhai.\nThe Moroccan sultan, Ahmad al-Mansur, wanted to control the export of gold and in 1590 sent an army of 4,000 mercenaries across the Sahara led by the converted Spaniard Judar Pasha. The Songhai were defeated at the Battle of Tondibi in 1591 and this led to the collapse of their empire. In 1599 the Mali Empire attempted to fill the void, but was defeated by the Moroccans outside the walls of Djenne.\nDespite the fall of the Songhai, Djenn\u00e9 remained a thriving centre of trade and learning. In his chronicle al-Sadi describes the town in 1655, 70 years after the Moroccan conquest:\n Jenne is one of the great markets of the Muslims. Those who deal in salt from the mine of Taghaza meet there with those who deal in gold from the mine of Bitu. ... This blessed city of Jenne is the reason why caravans come to Timbuktu from all quarters-north, south, east and west. Jenne is situated to the south and west of Timbuktu beyond the two rivers. When the river is in flood, Jenne becomes an island, but when the flood abates the water is far from it. It begins to be surrounded by water in August, and in February the water recedes again.\nAfter the initial success of the Moroccan occupation, the logistics of controlling a territory across the Sahara soon became too difficult and by 1630 the Saadians had lost control. The collapse of a centralised kingdom able to maintain order over a wide area led to a lack of security and a decline in the movement of traders and scholars. Djenn\u00e9 changed hands several times over the following centuries. The town formed part of the Segou kingdom from 1670 to 1818 and the Massina Empire established by the Fulani ruler Seku Amadu between 1818 and 1861.\nIn 1828 the French explorer Ren\u00e9 Cailli\u00e9, who travelled disguised as a Muslim, became the first European to visit Djenn\u00e9. He published a detailed description in his book \"Travels through Central Africa to Timbuctoo\":\nThe town of Jenn\u00e9 is about two miles and half in circumference; it is surrounded by a very ill constructed earth wall, about ten feet high, and fourteen inches thick. There are several gates, but they are all small. The houses are built of bricks dried in the sun. The sand of the isle of Jenn\u00e9 is mixed with a little clay, and it is employed to make bricks of a round form which are sufficiently solid. The houses are as large as those of European villages. The greater part have only one storey ... They are all terraced, have no windows externally, and the apartments receive no air except from an inner court. The only entrance, which is of ordinary size, is closed by a door made of wooden planks, pretty thick, and apparently sawed. The door is fastened on the inside by a double iron chain, and on the outside by a wooden lock made in the country. Some however have iron locks. The apartments are all long and narrow. The walls, especially the outer, are well plastered with sand, for they have no lime. In each house there is a staircase leading to the terrace; but there are no chimneys, and consequently the slaves cook in the open air.\nIn 1861 the town became part of the Toucouleur Empire under Umar Tall and then in April 1893 French forces under the command of Louis Archinard occupied the town. The French journalist, F\u00e9lix Dubois, visited the town in 1895, two years after the occupation. He published an account of his travels, together with many illustrations, in his book, \"Timbuctoo: the mysterious\". At the time of his visit the town was still encircled by an adobe wall. It was through this book, and the French edition published in 1897, that Djenn\u00e9 and its architecture became known in Europe and the United States.\nThe French chose to make Mopti the regional capital and as a result the relative importance of Djenn\u00e9 declined.\nArchitecture.\nDjenn\u00e9 is famous for its Sudanese-style architecture. Nearly all of the buildings in the town, including the Great Mosque, are made from sun-baked earthen bricks which are coated with plaster.\nThe traditional flat-roofed two-storey houses are built around a small central courtyard and have imposing fa\u00e7ades with pilaster like buttresses and an elaborate arrangement of pinnacles forming the parapet above the entrance door. The fa\u00e7ades are decorated with bundles of r\u00f4nier palm (\"Borassus aethiopum\") sticks, called \"toron\", that project about 60\u00a0cm from the wall. The \"toron\" also serve as readymade scaffolding. Ceramic pipes also extend from the roofline and ensure that the rain water from the roof does not damage the walls.\nSome of the houses built before 1900 are in the Toucouleur-style and have a massive covered entrance porch set between two large buttresses. These houses generally have a single small window onto the street set above the entrance door. Many of the more recent two-storey houses are in the Moroccan-style and have small ornate windows but lack the covered entrance porch.\nThe adobe bricks are made on the river bank using a wooded mold and a mixture of earth and chopped straw. They are typical 36 x 18 x 8\u00a0cm in size and when laid are separated by 2\u00a0cm of mortar. Up to the 1930s hand molded cylindrical bricks were used called \"djenn\u00e9-ferey\". All the brickwork is covered with a protective layer of plaster consisting of a mixture of earth and rice husks.\nIn Djenn\u00e9 the adobe buildings need to be replastered at least every other year and even then the annual rains can cause serious damage. The Great Mosque is replastered every year and yet in 2009 one of the minarets collapsed after a period of heavy rainfall. The older buildings are often entirely rebuilt. A survey of the town in 1984 identified 134 two-storey buildings of significant architectural importance, yet by 1995, in spite of restrictions resulting from the town's World Heritage status, 30% of the buildings on the list had been demolished, with most having been replaced with entirely new adobe buildings. Between 1996 and 2003 the Dutch government funded a project to restore around 100 of the older buildings in the town. For some buildings the restoration work involved little more than replastering the fa\u00e7ade while for others it involved demolition and rebuilding. The total cost was 430 million FCFA (655,000 Euro).\nIn the early 1980s foreign aid organizations funded a system to supply drinking water to both public taps and private homes. However, no wastewater disposal system was installed at the time and, as a result, wastewater was discharged into the streets. This was both unsightly and unhygienic. Between 2004 and 2008 the German government funded a project to construct gravel filled trenches outside each home to allow the wastewater to infiltrate the soil. By 2008 1,880 homes had been provided with these local infiltration systems.\nGreat Mosque.\nIn 1906 the French colonial administration arranged for the present Great Mosque to be built on the site of an earlier mosque. Different views have been expressed as to what extent the design of the present mosque was influenced by the colonial administration. The journalist F\u00e9lix Dubois revisited the town in 1910 and was horrified by what he considered to be a French design with three minarets resembling bell towers while Jean-Louis Bourgeois has argued that the French had little influence except perhaps for the internal arches and that the design is \"basically African\".\nWorld Heritage status.\nThe Old Towns of Djenn\u00e9 is an archaeological and urban ensemble located in the city of Djenn\u00e9, that comprises four archaeological sites, namely Djenn\u00e9-Djeno, Hambark\u00e9tolo, Kaniana, and Tonomba. In 1988, it was named by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site.\nEconomy.\nAlthough historically Djenn\u00e9 had been an important commercial and trading centre, in the 20th century commerce in the town declined due to its relatively isolated position. The local economy is now mainly based on agriculture, fishing and livestock and is very dependent on the annual rainfall and flooding of the Niger and Bani rivers. As a consequence, the severe drought that began in the late 1970s caused great hardship in the already impoverished town.\nThe town is a centre of Islamic scholarship and the Quranic schools attract students from outside the region.\nTourism is an important part of the local economy particularly in the dryer cooler winter months between November and March. Most tourists visit the Monday market and spend only one night in one of the 5 hotels/guest houses. In 2007 the town received around 15,000 visitors of whom 4,200 stayed overnight. Of these just over a third were from France with the remainder coming from a large number of other countries. In 2005 tourism contributed around 450 million CFA francs (687,000 Euro) to the economy of the town.\nThe town has received significant quantities of foreign aid with many countries contributing. The Canadian government helped fund the infrastructure to supply drinking water while the United States has contributed funds to maintain the system. The Dutch government funded a project to restore and plaster some of the old adobe buildings and the German government funded a scheme to improve the sanitation. Repairs to the mosque have been funded by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture.\nSights.\nThe main attractions are the Great Mosque and the two-story adobe houses with their monumental fa\u00e7ades. The best known house is that of the Maiga family who supply the town's tradition chief. This old building with its Toucouleur-style entrance porch is in the Algasba district on the eastern side of the town. Ren\u00e9 Caill\u00e9 visited the house in 1828. Other attractions include the tomb of Tapama Djenepo, who in legend was sacrificed on the founding of the city, and the remains of Djenn\u00e9-J\u00e9no, an important settlement from the 3rd century BC until the 13th century AD.\nThe weekly Monday market, when buyers and sellers converge on the town from the surrounding regions, is a key tourist attraction. There is also a daily (women's) market that takes place in a courtyard opposite the mosque.\nThe town is approximately eight hours by road from Bamako. The coaches to Mopti drop off passengers at the crossroads from Djenn\u00e9.\nThe great mosque is out of bounds for non-Muslim tourists.\nDemographics.\nThe inhabitants of Djenn\u00e9 mostly speak a Songhay variety termed Djenn\u00e9 Chiini, but the languages spoken also reflect the diversity of the area. The villages around it variously speak Bozo, Fulfulde, or Bambara."}
{"id": "732133", "revid": "30438843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732133", "title": "Temoac", "text": "Temoac is a town in the Mexican state of Morelos. \nThe town serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality, with which it shares a name. Temoac comes from Nahuatl and means \"Temog-a\" (descend), \"Atl\" (water), \"Ko\" (adverb of place); \"place where water descends\".\nThe municipality has the following boundaries: to the north with the municipalities of Yecapixtla and Zacualpan de Amilpas; to the south with Jonacatepec and Jantetelco; to the west with Ciudad Ayala and to the east with the state of Puebla. The municipality reported 15,844 inhabitants in 2015 census.\nHistory.\nIn pre-Hispanic times, the region where the Municipality of Temoac is located today was tributary to the \"Acolhuas\" of Texcoco, later to the Triple Alliance formed by the Mexicas, Acolhuas and\"Tepanecas\". Later in the colonial period, several sugar estates were built in the region. \"El Trapiche de Chicomocelo\", established around the year 1600 in the town of Tlacotepec, was part of the acquisitions made by the Society of Jesus, a religious who in just 69 years owned 82 haciendas. In spite of the benefits that the exploitation of the cane generated, the \"trapiches\" (refineries) were demolished by the \"Maximum School of San Pedro and Pablo\" in 1732 and switched to wheat production.\nThe municipal government building served as an elementary school for the children of Temoac in the 19th and early 20th centuries.\nThe rural normal school \"Emiliano Zapata\" was created in Amalcingo on October 18, 1973. While the school has always tried to promote values to young teachers, since its beginning, the school has been plagued by underfinancing, hazing, and violence.\nDifferences between Zacualpan de Amilpas and surrounding communities led to the establishment of Temoac as a municipality on March 17, 1977.\nValent\u00edn Lav\u00edn Romero, the candidate of PVEM (Green Party) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018. Several of his family members were murdered on September 13, 2018. Temoac has been plagued with crime and violence; citizens of Temoac and neighboring municipalities in 2018 established extra-legal \"self-defense organizations\" due to threats from drug dealers.\nSamir Flores, an activist and radio announcer from Amalcingo who opposed the construction of the thermoelectric plant in Huexca, Yecapixtla, was murdered on February 20, 2019, only three days prior to the proposed referendum on the project. The referendum on the $22 billion peso (US$16 billion) plant was approved 59.1% in favor to 40.1% opposed by voters in Morelos, Puebla, and Tlaxcala, although the voting in Temoac was canceled due to violence.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of April 27, 2020. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. The state office of DIF sent food and water to vulnerable groups of people in eight municipalities including Temoac on May 26. On July 2, Temoac reported 32 infections and eight deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Temoac reported 13 cases, six recuperations, and four deaths from the virus as of August 31. Twenty-seven cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nPoints of Interest.\nCatholic churches: Church of the Lord of the Column (\"del Cerrito\"), which is well-preserved; church of \"San Jos\u00e9\", church of \"San Mart\u00edn Obispo\" in the municipal seat, church of \"Santa Catarina de Alejandra\" in Huazulco, church of \"Santa Mar\u00eda Magdalena\", and church of \"Santo Tomas Ap\u00f3stole\", in Popotl\u00e1n.\nVisitors will enjoy \"La hacienda de Santa Luc\u00eda\". and the \"Feria Tradicional de Huazulco\" (traditional fair) in Santa Catarina, held from November 24 to 26.\nCommunities.\nThe communities that make up Temoac are Popotl\u00e1n (Barrio Santo Tom\u00e1s), population 839; Huazulco, population 3,847; Amilcingo, population 3,515; and Temoac (municipal seat) population 5,799.\nGeography.\nTemoac is located at , at an average height of 1,583 meters above sea level. It is in the eastern part of the state of Morelos, bound by Zacualpan de Amilpas and Yecapixtla to the north, the state of Puebla to the east, Ayala to the west, and Jonacatepec and Jantetelco to the south. Its area is 37.04 km2, representing 0.92% of the total of the state. Important heights include the hill of Tencuacoalco (1,770 meters); the hill of Tenango or El Gordo, (1,500 meters), and the Mirador, the Colorado and La Playa. It is from Cuernavaca, from Mexico City, from the city of Puebla, and from Cuautla.\nThe Amatzinac or Tenango River is the most important in the municipality. Its source is in the Popocat\u00e9petl volcano; several small dams have been built to store the waters for irrigation. The climate of Temoac is temperate subhumid, with rains in summer and with an average annual temperature of 19.8\u00b0C. The rainy season is May\u2013October, with an annual average of .\nFlora is constituted mainly by low deciduous forest of warm climate: \"jacarandas\", \"Mexican holdbacks\", \"cazahuates\", \"ceiba\", and bougainvilleas. Wildlife consists of white-tail deer, boars, raccoons, badgers, skunks, armadillos, hares, common rabbits, coyotes, wildcats, weasels, \"cacomistles\" (a raccoon-like animal), magpies, buzzards, ravens, owls, and songbirds."}
{"id": "732137", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732137", "title": "Tepalcingo", "text": "Tepalcingo is a town in the Mexican state of Morelos. It at . The name Nahuatl root \"tekpa-tl\" (flint), \"tzintli\" (saves honor), \"tzinco\" (back of an individual), so in sum it means \"tekpatzinko\" \"down or behind the flints\".\nTepalcingo limits to the north with Ayala and Jonacatepec; to the south with Tlaquiltenango and the State of Puebla; to the east with Axochiapan and Jonacatepec; to the west with Ayala and Tlaquiltenango. It is above sea level.\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality, with which it shares a name. It reported 27,187 inhabitants in the 2015 census.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic History.\nIt is believed that in 1272, Mixtec women, men, and children who broke away from Iloala (present-day Iguala Guerrero) founded the town of Tepalcingo. Ruins believed to belong to the \"Pueblo Viejo\", located in the hills of Zopiloapan, west of modern Tepalcingo, have been found.\nTepalcingo was later conquered by the Aztecs in 1445, when it was subject to Huaxtepec (Oaxtepec).\nColonial History.\nAfter the Conquest of Mexico, Tepalcingo paid tribute directly to the Spanish crown until 1532 when it was incorporated in the lands of Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s when it became subject to Yecapichtlan (Yecapixtla). Mart\u00edn Cort\u00e9s, son of the conquistador, faced an independence struggle of people who did not want to be subjects of the \"marquisate\", and from 1565 Tepalcingo was included in what is called the \"Tlalnahuac\", a group of fifteen towns south of Yecapixtla. Cortes gained possession of the lands in 1587, after which they passed to the Dukes of Terranova and then the Dukes of Monteleone. The inhabitants of the 15 villages of the Tlalnahuac were decimated by smallpox, plague, measles, and other diseases brought from Europe since they did not have defenses against so many new diseases. Thus the people of the Tlalnahuac could not organize a coordinated resistance, and for 350 years they were subjugated by the haciendas.\nIndependence and 19th Century.\nVicente Guerrero abolished the marquisate in 1829; however, for many years, part of the hacienda properties would remain in the hands of descendants of Hern\u00e1n and Mart\u00edn Cort\u00e9s. The people of Tepalcingo vainly petitioned for restitution of their lands in 1853.\nUpon independence in 1821, the modern territory of Morelos was part of the State of Mexico. In 1869 the state of Morelos was founded, and Tepalcingo, including Huautla, became a municipality on June 14, 1872. A smallpox epidemic decimated the area between 1895 and 1910; between August 1903 and January 1904, 573 of 574 children in Tepelcingo died.\nRevolution and 20th Century.\nLocal residents Dionisio G\u00f3mez, Severiano P\u00e9rez, Claudio P\u00e9rez, Isabel X., Macedonio Coyote, Mart\u00edn Barba, Epifanio V\u00e1zquez, Severiano Pariente, and Severiano Trejo died during the Mexican Revolution.\n21st Century.\nAlthough the epicenter of the September 19, 2017 earthquake was in Axochiapan, the municipality of Tepalcingo was among the most severely affected. Public, private, and religious buildings were seriously damaged; there was structural damage to the Sanctuary of Jesus of Nazareth, which nearly collapsed; all the other churches of the municipality were damaged as well as the municipal presidency, the market, and other buildings. Municipal President Alfredo S\u00e1nchez V\u00e9lez said that 700 homes could not be used, while others had cracks. No lives were reported lost. The Secretary of Health reported that 486 homes were destroyed and 2,263 were damaged, more than in any other municipality.\nAlfredo S\u00e1nchez Velez of PVEM (Green Party) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018. Violence is a major concern; 400 people tried to lynch four men suspected of kidnapping a child on January 22, 2019.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of April 27, 2020; two cases were reported in Tepalcingo. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. Ninety-five cases were reported in the municipality on December 27, 2020. Vaccinations for senior citizens (60+) are scheduled to begin on March 12, 2021.\nFifteen people died in Axochiapan, Jantetelco, and Tepalcingo due to adulterated alcohol on Mother's Day.\nCulture.\nThe oldest fair in Morelos is held in Tepelcingo on the third Friday of Lent. Visitors come from all over Morelos and nearby states; they enjoy pulque, and traditional dances. Cattle and handicrafts, including boxes of \"Olinal\u00e1\" aromatic wood are sold. This is the fourth most important fair of Mexico and the largest popular fair in Mexico type \"Tiaquixtli\".\nThere are three types of music: \"Tecuanes\", \"Tlatenquiza\", and \"Ca\u00f1eros\". Cuisine includes greenmole of pepita (pipi\u00e1n) with tamales of cenizas, red turkey mole, cecina with cheese, cream, and green sauce with guaje; barbecue of kid and wild pigeons stewed in pipi\u00e1n or in green sauce.\nSierra de Huautla.\nEstablished in 2006, the \"Sierra de Huautla Biosphere Reserve\" (REBIOSH) covers in the Balsas River Basin of the municipalities of Tlaquiltenango, Amacuzac, Tepalcingo, Jojutla, and Puente de Ixtla. Its rough topology varies from above sea level in the Balsas Basin and constitutes a rich reservoir of endemic species to Mexico. There is a broad range of ecosystem, including low deciduous forest, gallery vegetation, and pine and oak forests. 939 species of plants, 44 species of butterflies, 71 species of mammals, 208 species of birds, 53 species of reptiles, 18 species of amphibians, and 14 species of fish have been noted. Among the species of animals are jaguars, short-horned Baronia butterfly, beaded lizard, military macaw, roufus-backed robin, Balsas screech owl, Pileated flycatcher, mountain lion, ocelot, margay, bobcat, and jaguarundi.\nTourism.\nTourism includes the Pre-Hispanic \"Pueblo Viejo\", \"Las Termas\" thermal water park of Atotonilco, with water and the \"Los Delfines\" water park. There is Ecotourism- in the \"Sierra de Huatla\", the scenic view of the \"Cerrito Tepactzin\", and the dam. The sanctuary of the Lord of Tepalcingo, the churches of Santa M\u00f3nica, Holy Cross, and Nuestra Se\u00f1ora de Guadalupe, and the parish of San Mart\u00edn Obispo (feast November 11), as well as the Hacienda de San Nicol\u00e1s Tolentino are also popular with tourists.\nShrine of the Lord of Tepalcingo.\nAccording to legend, in the 16th century, a girl found a small [30 centimeter tall] wooden figure in the river. The figure represented Jesus Christ tied by his arms to a column. A small hermitage was built where the figure was venerated. Over the years, the sculpture was moved, first to the chapel of Santa Cruz, and then to that of San Mart\u00edn. In the 18th century, a craftsman from Puebla was commissioned to make a larger sculpture of the Patron Saint, but, unlike the Lord of the Column, he was asked to change the figure to Jesus of Nazareth with a cross. The figure was brought to Tepalcingo and the men who were carrying it said, \"it became heavy\". A church made of yellow stone from Chalcatcingo was built in that exact place.\nAgust\u00edn Pila Dreinhofer, in the book \"Arquitectura Barroca\" (UNAM, 2013), highlights the Shrine of Tepalcingo as the best example of popular baroque in New Spain. The most striking aspect of this temple is its main fa\u00e7ade or doorway, in pink - \"a true theological treatise\", according to Pila Dreinhofer -, with elements, twisted columns, animals, characters and scenes from the Old and New Testaments, from the Creation of the world until the Last Supper; made in stucco, similar to a technique used in pyramids and pre-Hispanic buildings.\nCommunities.\nTepalcingo is divided into 20 localities; the most important are: Tepalcingo (the municipal seat), Huitchila, Ixtlilco El Chico, Ixtlilco, Ixtlilco El Grande, Los Sauces, El Tepehuaje, El Lim\u00f3n, Pitzotl\u00e1n, El Pastor, and Zacapalco."}
{"id": "732138", "revid": "55814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732138", "title": "Hill bagging", "text": ""}
{"id": "732140", "revid": "23064323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732140", "title": "Tepoztl\u00e1n", "text": "Tepoztl\u00e1n () is a town in the central Mexican state of Morelos. It is located at in the heart of the Tepoztl\u00e1n Valley. The town serves as the seat of government for the municipality of the same name. The town had a population of 14,130 inhabitants, while the municipality reported 41,629 inhabitants in the 2010 national census.\nThe town is a popular tourist destination near Mexico City. The town is famous for the remains of El Tepozteco temple built on top of the nearby Tepozteco Mountain, as well as for the exotic ice cream flavors prepared by the townspeople.\nTepoztl\u00e1n was named a \"Pueblo M\u00e1gico\" (or \"magic town\") in 2002 but its title was removed in 2009 for failure to maintain the requirements. In 2010, Tepoztl\u00e1n addressed these problems and recovered the Pueblo M\u00e1gico title.\nEtymology.\nTepoztl\u00e1n is derived from Nahuatl and means \"place of abundant copper\" or \"place of the broken rocks.\" This is derived from the words \"tepoz-tli\" (copper) and \"tlan\" (\"place of/place of abundance\").\nGeography.\nClimate.\nThe climate around the Tepoztl\u00e1n Sierra (where \"el Tepozteco\" is located) shows temperate as well as some subtropical variations. The rainy season starts during the summer and ends at the beginning of autumn. Precipitation reaches /yr in the Tepoztl\u00e1n Valley and up to /yr in the mountains.\nEconomy.\nAgriculture specially growing of maize, chili and tomatoes, livestock growing. Traditional pottery and handicrafts (for which there is a lively weekend market or \"tianguis\").\nTourism: Nowadays Tepoztl\u00e1n gets its most important income through tourism. People visit the town for its authentic traditional environment, along with the pyramid and several communities with ecological or progressive thinking.\nReal estate: The legal system that regulates possession of land in Tepoztl\u00e1n is communal. Under that legal framework, land in Tepoztl\u00e1n cannot be purchased. In case of problems, neither financial nor judicial institutions can support ownership claims.\nMeztitla Scout Camp School is owned by the Mexican government, located near Tepozteco mountain. Meztitla is the National Scout Camp School. Although Meztitla is frequented by Scouts of Mexico and from around the world, it is also open to the general public.\nHistory.\nAccording to myth, Amatl\u00e1n, in the municipality of Tepoztlan is the birthplace of \"Ce Acatl\", later known as Topiltzin Ce Acatl Quetzalcoatl, and who may be the possible historical basis of the Mesoamerican god Quetzalcoatl over 1200 years ago, the feathered serpent god widely worshipped in ancient Mexico.\nIt has not yet been possible to determine who first inhabited the area. The earliest findings of pottery and other ceramic utensils date back to approximately 1500 BCE.\nAt the top of a hill, there is a small pyramid devoted to Ometochtli-Tepozt\u0113catl, the supposed inventor of pulque, a beer-like drink made from the maguey plant. The pyramid, called El Tepozteco, dates from the Post-Classic Period (900\u20131521 CE) and has inscriptions dating from 1452 and 1502.\nThe town was incorporated into the Aztec Empire under the rule of Moctezuma I. Local rulers had the titles \"chichimecahueytzintecuhtli\" and \"cacamteutli\", but political power may have been less centralized here than elsewhere in Morelos. Local products included cotton, maguey, amate and limestone. Tepoztlan fought wars against Cuauhnahuac and Yecapixtla. \nDuring the Spanish Conquest (1521), Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s is said to have ordered the town razed after the refusal of the town leaders to meet him. This event was chronicled by Bernal D\u00edaz del Castillo in The Conquest of New Spain. A monastery was built here by the Dominicans between 1555 and 1580, and in 1993 was declared World Heritage by the UNESCO. Colonial-era judges had the titles \"tlalcuhcalcaltzintle\", \"tecpanecatzintli\" and \"zuacoatzintli\".\nAnthropologists Robert and Margaret Park Redfield lived in Tepoztl\u00e1n 1926-27 and published \"Tepoztlan, a Mexican Village: A Study in Folk Life\", and \"Notes on the Cookery of Tepoztlan, Morelos\"\nSurrealist painter Wolfgang Paalen lived and worked in Tepoztl\u00e1n during his last Mexican period (1954\u201359).\nThe hiking trail the Sierra de Tepoztlan to the pyramid was closed temporally after the 2017 Puebla earthquake. 203 homes were destroyed and 744 were damaged in the municipality.\nIn response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Tepoztlan blocked the entrances to the community. As of April 27, 2020, two cases were reported in Tepoztl\u00e1n. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On July 2, Tepoztl\u00e1n reported five infections but no deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Tepoztl\u00e1n reported 75 cases, 58 recuperations, and nine deaths from the virus as of August 31. One hundred thirty-three cases were reported on December 27, 2020. The community health center was briefly closed when employees protested against the lack of vaccines; it reopened January 21 after being promised vaccines.\nA fire that burned of forest from May 19 to 22, 2020, was allegedly provoked by a 25-year-old woman as a stunt to get on TikTok. The fire threatened not only the forest but also the town of Santo Domingo Ocotitlan. She could be sentenced to ten years of prison. The \"Procuradur\u00eda Federal de Protecci\u00f3n al Ambiente\" (Federal Attorney for Environmental Protection, PROFEPA) says it will seek financial and penal compensation.\nThe Legend of Tepozteco.\nThere are several versions of the story of Tepozteco. One that describes a man by the last name of Tepozt\u00f3n who is born to a laundress and ends up working in Tenochtitlan, Mexico where he is converted to Catholicism. As a form of payment for some work he did helping to hang a bell at one of the Catholic churches, he receives 3 boxes and is instructed not to open them. However, his curiosity wins and he opens the boxes. Opening the boxes let out the birds that were inside which acted as a symbol of the riches and wellbeing of the people.\nAnother version of the story refers to Tepozteco as a person who was baptized and introduced to the Catholic Church on September 8, 1532 in the Axitla River, at the base of the mountain where a statue of Ometochtli was found. A young 22-year-old missionary named Fray Domingo de la anunciaci\u00f3n, baptized Tepozteco after having thrown the idol, worshiped by pilgrims from Chiapas and Guatemala, off a cliff.\nFour important gentlemen from surrounding areas: Yautepec, Oaxtepec, Tlayacapan, and Cuauhnahuac, accuse Tepozteco of having betrayed their gods and they challenge him. He defeats them and with the strength of his speech, convinces them of all the goodness of the new religion.\nOf this legend, let's point out that one of the four natural elements is spoken of; the air, which is attributed with thinking or reasoning. We see that this characteristic is brought up when Tepoztecatl, comes out on top of every difficult situation that he faces. Reasonably, he boasts that he is son of Quetzalcoatl, \"God of the Wind,\" which allows him to be protected by him at every moment.\nThe municipality.\nThe municipality is one of 17 municipalities that border Mexico City. It borders the Milpa Alta borough at the south side of the capital city. Rogelio Torres Ortega of \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" (Together we will make history coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the election of July 1, 2018.\nTowns and villages.\nThe largest localities (cities, towns, and villages) are:\nAttractions and festivals.\nPyramid of Tepozteco.\nThe archaeological site of El Tepozteco is centered on the 13th-century temple dedicated to Tepozt\u0113catl, god of pulque. The sanctuary is located at 2,310 meters above sea level (7,579 feet) while the main plaza of Tepoztl\u00e1n is at 1,715\u00a0m (5,627\u00a0ft). A rustic trail leads up to the sanctuary, climbing 595\u00a0m (1,952\u00a0ft) along 2\u00a0km (1 1/4 miles) of length. Due to the steep climb and rough terrain, people take anywhere from 20 minutes to three hours to make the journey.\nFrom the summit there are views of the town of Tepoztlan and the Valley of Cuernavaca. As the national park is located within the \"Chichinautzin Biological Corridor\" there is plenty of rich flora and fauna.\nMuseo Ex Convento de Tepoztl\u00e1n (Museo de la Natividad).\nThe Tepoztl\u00e1n Ex Convento Museum was built by the Tepoztecan Indians under the orders of the Dominican friars between 1555 and 1580, dedicated to the Virgin of the Nativity. In 1993, INAH created a restoration project and in 1994 it was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. This site is the parish of the Nativity and the Museum and Historical Documentation Center of Tepoztl\u00e1n.\nThis monastery consists of a large atrium that has served as a cemetery and park. There are four \"capillas posas\" in each of the corners, although only the ones on the north side are well-preserved. The \"capillas posas\" were invented in Nueva Espa\u00f1a for the instruction of large crowds of Indigenous, and their use later spread to Guatemala, Colombia, Peru, and Bolivia."}
{"id": "732141", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732141", "title": "Dieulafoy's lesion", "text": "Dieulafoy's lesion () is a medical condition characterized by a large tortuous artery most commonly in the stomach wall (submucosal) that erodes and bleeds. It can present in any part of the gastrointestinal tract. It can cause gastric hemorrhage but is relatively uncommon. It is thought to cause less than 5% of all gastrointestinal bleeds in adults. It was named after French surgeon Paul Georges Dieulafoy, who described this condition in his paper \"Exulceratio simplex: Le\u00e7ons 1-3\" in 1898. It is also called \"caliber-persistent artery\" or \"aneurysm\" of gastric vessels. However, unlike most other aneurysms, these are thought to be developmental malformations rather than degenerative changes.\nSigns and symptoms.\nDieulafoy's lesion often do not cause symptoms (asymptomatic). When present, symptoms usually relate to painless bleeding, with vomiting blood (hematemesis) and/or black stools (melena). Less often, Dieulafoy's lesions may cause rectal bleeding (hematochezia), or rarely, iron deficiency anemia. Usually, there are no gastrointestinal symptoms that precede the bleeding (abdominal pain, nausea, etc.).\nThough exceptionally rare, cases of Dieulafoy lesions occurring in the gallbladder can cause upper abdominal pain, which is usually right upper quadrant or upper middle (epigastric). Though gallbladder Dieulafoy lesions usually occur with anemia (83%), they generally do not cause overt bleeding (hematochezia, hematemesis, melena, etc.).\nCause.\nIn contrast to peptic ulcer disease, a history of alcohol use disorder or NSAID use is usually absent in Dieulafoy's lesion.\nPathophysiology.\nDieulafoy lesions are characterized by a single abnormally large blood vessel (arteriole) beneath the gastrointestinal mucosa (submucosa) that bleeds, in the absence of any ulcer, erosion, or other abnormality in the mucosa. The size of these blood vessels varies from 1\u20135\u00a0mm (more than 10 times the normal diameter of mucosal capillaries). Pulsation from the enlarged vessels leads to focal pressure that causes thinning of the mucosa at that location, leading to exposure of the vessel and subsequent hemorrhage.\nApproximately 75% of Dieulafoy's lesions occur in the upper part of the stomach within 6\u00a0cm of the gastroesophageal junction, most commonly in the lesser curvature. However, Dieulafoy's lesions may occur in any part of the gastrointestinal tract. Extragastric lesions have historically been thought to be uncommon but have been identified more frequently in recent years, likely due to increased awareness of the condition. The duodenum is the most common location (14%) followed by the colon (5%), surgical anastamoses (5%), the jejunum (1%) and the esophagus (1%). Dieulafoy's lesions have been reported in the gallbladder. The pathology in these extragastric locations is essentially the same as that of the more common gastric lesion.\nDiagnosis.\nA Dieulafoy's lesion is difficult to diagnose, because of the intermittent pattern of bleeding. Dieulafoy's lesion are typically diagnosed during endoscopic evaluation, usually during upper endoscopy, which may show an isolated protruding blood vessel. Lesions affecting the colon or end of the small bowel (terminal ileum) may be diagnosed during colonoscopy. Dieulafoy's lesions are not easily recognized and therefore multiple evaluations with endoscopy may be necessary. Once identified during endoscopy, the mucosa near a Dieulafoy's lesion may be injected with ink. Tattooing the area can aid in identifying the location of the Dieulafoy's lesion in the event of rebleeding. Endoscopic ultrasound has been used both to facilitate identification of Dieulafoy lesions and confirm the treatment success.\nAngiography may be helpful with diagnosis, though this only identifies bleeding that actively occurs during the time of that test. Mesenteric angiography may be particularly helpful for Dieulafoy lesions in the colon or rectum, where the evaluation may be limited by the presence of blood or poor bowel preparation.\nTreatment.\nIn most cases, Dieulafoy lesions are treated with endoscopic interventions. Endoscopic techniques used in the treatment include epinephrine injection followed by bipolar or monopolar electrocoagulation, injection sclerotherapy, heater probe, laser photocoagulation, hemoclipping or banding.\nIn cases of refractory bleeding, interventional radiology may be consulted for an angiogram with subselective embolization.\nPrognosis.\nThe mortality rate for Dieulafoy's was much higher before the era of endoscopy, where open surgery was the only treatment option. Mortality has decreased from 80% to 8% as a result of endoscopic therapies. Long term control of bleeding (hemostasis) is achieved in 85 - 90 percent of cases.\nEpidemiology.\nDieulafoy's lesions account for roughly 1.5 percent of gastrointestinal hemorrhage. These lesions are twice as common in men, and often occur in older individuals (over 50 years of age) with multiple comorbidities, including hypertension, cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney disease, and diabetes. Dieulafoy's lesions present in individuals with an average age of 52 years.\nHistory.\nDieulafoy's lesion was first described in 1884 by M.T. Gallard. The lesion was named after French surgeon Paul Georges Dieulafoy, who described the condition in his paper \"Exulceratio simplex: Le\u00e7ons 1-3\" in 1898. Dieulafoy believed (incorrectly) the bleeding from this lesion was due to erosions of the mucosa in the stomach."}
{"id": "732142", "revid": "48643156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732142", "title": "BBC Choice", "text": "BBC Choice was a British digital television channel which was owned by the BBC and was launched on 23 September 1998. It was the first British TV channel to broadcast exclusively in digital format, as well as the BBC's second non-analogue-terrestrial channel launch (following on from the BBC News channel in 1997).\nAt launch, BBC Choice mainly existed to supplement existing programming on BBC One and Two, with some low-profile original programming of its own. However, faced with low ratings for both Choice and its sister channel BBC Knowledge, in 2000 the BBC's digital strategy changed. Under new controller Stuart Murphy, the channel began to aim specifically at a young adult audience. The BBC ultimately planned to replace the channel with the higher-profile BBC Three, which, after some delay, began broadcasting in February 2003.\nHistory.\nBackground.\nThe BBC had been wanting to expand into the digital television market for a number of years, as their Director-General Sir John Birt said, \"The BBC has always been a pioneer of technology\". Originally this was by their association with Flextech, which spawned the UKTV network. Both companies had different ideas on how the new channels would be run: the BBC wanted the channels branded as BBC channels, but Flextech wanted the channels to contain advertising. The BBC refused, stating that no domestic BBC channel should carry advertising.\nIn the end, a compromise was made: Two of the channels would launch as BBC channels: BBC Showcase, and BBC Learning (later became BBC Knowledge), with the remainder of the channels being launched as the UKTV network, intended to be BBC in all but name. Prior to the launch, the channel changed its name from BBC Showcase to BBC Choice.\nLaunch.\nWhen BBC Choice launched in 23 September 1998, no digital TV receivers were available to the general public as Sky Digital and ONdigital had not yet launched. Instead, the launch programme was broadcast over the internet, with the first day's schedule including a \"Tomorrow's World\" guide to digital television and repeats of the very first episodes of \"EastEnders\" and \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\".\nThe main format of the channel was a mix of BBC One and Two programming as well as original programming such as \"Backstage\", broadcast live each weeknight, which took viewers behind the scenes of different parts of the BBC. The channel also provided exclusive coverage of music festivals such as Glastonbury and extended live coverage of sport, for when either BBC One or Two have to end their coverage early or their schedules are unable to provide live sport action.\nBBC Choice also introduced an innovative programme format known as 'Hotlink', which expanded on popular shows. Examples included \"Watchdog Extra\", where viewers could contact the show by phone or e-mail with either questions or feedback on the issues discussed. \"Crimewatch Extra\" provided follow-up detail on the cases involved in the main programme, and \"Row Z\" was a football discussion forum that aired after \"Match of the Day\" finished on BBC One. The 'Hotlink' format has since been adopted by many other channels, particularly both ITV2 and E4.\nBBC Choice initially broadcast from 5pm daily; this later switched to 7pm. The 7pm start carried over into its successor BBC Three.\nChildren's programming.\nBBC Choice also aired children's programmes; this duty transferred to CBBC and CBeebies when they launched on 11 February 2002.\nFor the first year of BBC Choice, children's programming would air on weekend afternoons as CBBC Choice, and included strands like 'Dog &amp; Dinosaur', 'The Crew Room', 'L&amp;K Replay' and 'Re:Peter'. From 29 November 1999, this was supplanted with a daily CBBC on Choice strand, running from 6am to 7pm every day, for programmes aimed at pre-school children, with presentation links pre-recorded by a CBBC presenter. It included repeats of archive shows rarely seen on the main channels, such as the first few series of \"Bodger &amp; Badger\", \"Mr Benn\", \"Paddington\", \"Simon and the Witch\", \"Ivor the Engine\", \"Jonny Briggs\", \"Pigeon Street\", and \"Bitsa\". This continued until February 2002, when the CBBC and CBeebies channels launched, with the CBBC channel taking up BBC Choice's daytime broadcast bandwidth, but occupying a separate EPG position.\nPost-2000 refresh.\nIn June 2000, the BBC radically changed its digital channel formats. The initial format had seen BBC Choice target a similar mixed audience to BBC One and Two with a general entertainment skew, with BBC Knowledge focusing on educational and informative programming. From 2000 both Knowledge and Choice became targeted to more specific audiences, with Knowledge moving to a broader documentary and culture mix and Choice focusing on developing a stronger relationship with the young adult audience, which historically the BBC had difficulty reaching. BBC Choice abandoned many of its original programmes such as \"Backstage\", and aimed at younger people, with most of the early part of the schedules being made up of fifteen-minute programmes under the banner of \"Refreshing TV\" or \"Micro TV\". Entertainment news magazine \"Liquid News\", presented by Christopher Price, evolved out of News 24's \"Zero 30\" and became the channel's flagship show.\nAnnouncement of the end of BBC Choice.\nIn August 2000, the BBC announced that it would replace BBC Choice with BBC Three as soon as possible, which would become a continuation of the \"youth\" aspect of the new BBC Choice. But the government delayed approving BBC Three, which formed part of wider plans to reshape the BBC's digital provision, plans which also included the proposed BBC Four, two children's channels, and five digital radio stations. Whilst BBC Three was delayed, the other proposals gained the approval of Parliament and the new channels went on air in 2002, meaning BBC Four launched prior to BBC Three. From October 2001, BBC Choice began screening a significant amount of new, young-skewing programming, the kind of content that had been earmarked for BBC Three.\nThe BBC submitted a revised proposal for the new channel raised the target age range to 25\u201334 and increased the amount of factual and arts programming, with a nightly 15-minute news programme \u2013 it was hoped these changes would better illustrate how BBC Three would differ from rivals such as E4, ITV2 and Sky One. This new proposal for BBC Three was given the go-ahead in September 2002, with a set of public-service conditions laid down and a launch date of February 2003 set. The final night of BBC Choice was given over entirely to previews of the new channel.\nProgramming.\nInitially, the main attractions of BBC Choice were multi-broadcast TV shows, with the option to choose which programme you viewed. The first broadcast by the BBC with this option was two months after the launch of the channel, showing \"Stressed Eric\", with \"Naked Video\" as the Digital Teletext option. In addition, BBC Choice also aired new episodes of some series, such as \"Robot Wars\", before their first broadcast on the terrestrial BBC channels.\nIts single-show programming was mainly concerned with celebrities, including documentary profiles and the nightly entertainment magazine \"Liquid News\". \"EastEnders Revealed\" was the only show from the original 1998 channel lineup to survive and outlive the entire life of the channel itself, transferring to its successor, BBC Three.\nRegional variations.\nBBC Choice had regional variations for Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland which were broadcast in place of the network BBC Choice service in their respective areas from 10:30pm (following the \"EastEnders\" replay) to circa midnight nightly. At the time the BBC's digital offering included the national variants of BBC One (England, Scotland, Wales, NI) and a single nationwide BBC Two.\nThe regional variations of Choice were discontinued in 2001 in favour of introducing regional opt-outs on BBC Two to digital services; in some cases, such as BBC 2W in Wales, analogue and digital versions of BBC Two were separately scheduled, but by 2010 all differences between the analogue and digital variants of BBC Two had ceased, and there is now one version of the channel in each area, broadcasting on analogue (until switchoff) and digital platforms. The English regional variants of BBC One were made available digitally from 2003.\nSince the cessation of the BBC Choice splits, all BBC digital TV channels (including Choice's successor BBC Three) have operated as UK-wide services with no regional opt-out functionality."}
{"id": "732143", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732143", "title": "Tetecala", "text": "Tetecala is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos.\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality, with which it shares a name. The toponym Tetecala comes from a Nahuatl name and means \"place of stone houses\". The full name of the town is Tetecala de la Reforma because the Laws of the Reforma were signed there in the mid-19th century.\nThe municipality reported 7,772 inhabitants in the 2015 census.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic history.\nVestiges of Olmec, Chichimeca, and Tlahuica Prehispanic human settlements have been found in the area that includes modern Tetecals. It is evident that there were settlements of different sizes and that it was an important place of passage between the manors of Coatl\u00e1n and Mazatepec.\nColonial history.\nTetecala was founded between 1521 and 1583 when it first appears on a map. By 1594 it was called \"San Francisco de Tetecala\" and it was an important agricultural center. Cuautitla was founded about this time.\nBy 1746, Tetecala and the surrounding area had 266 families of \"Indians\" and 32 of \"Spaniards and Mestizos\", as well as some of \"Mulatos.\" Eighty years later, the population had increased to 4,040 inhabitants that were distributed in the town of Tetecala, five haciendas, and ten ranches. By Royal Decree of December 4, 1786, the Municipality of Tetecala corresponded to the State of Mexico.\nThe fertile plain of Tetecala was considered the most luxuriant in the jurisdiction of Cuernavaca. Several 17th and 18th century travelers described the area as \"very entertaining and fun\".\n19th Century and early independence.\nThe local parish priest, Andr\u00e9s Gonz\u00e1lez Meraz, illegally seized lands in Tlatempan. One of the last battles of the Mexican War of Independence took place in Tetecala on June 2, 1821, when Pedro Ascencio Alquicira attacked royalist Dionisio Boheta. Ascencio was killed the following day.\nThe municipality of Tetecalpa was founded as a part of the State of Mexico on August 6, 1824. An 1826 census reported 651 day-laborers, 50 farmers, 20 artisans, 19 merchants, two manufacturers of brandy, two presbyters, a surgeon, a teacher, and a responsible civil authority. Commerce stands out since Tetecala had a smaller population than Xochitepec, Tlaltizap\u00e1n, Puente de Ixtla, or Tlaquiltenango, but it had more commercial activity than any of them. Sugar cane, bananas, huacamote (sic) (tomatoes?), jicama, plums, watermelons, mamey, corn and beans were grown locally.\nThere was a peasant revolt in Tetecala, Miacatlan, and Xochitepec in 1848. Lt. Manuel Arellano led the fight against the hacienda owners, who were supported by Kad Waleder, leader of the American troops who had invaded in 1847. Tetecala supported Juan Alvarez during the La Reforma (1854\u22121857). During the ensuing war, Tetecala sheltered Benito Juarez, the Lerdo de Tejada brothers, Ignacio Manuel Altamirano, Ignacio Ram\u00edrez \"El Nigromante\", Guillermo Prieto, Manuel Doblado, Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Iglesias, and others. The Masonic Lodge \"La Palanca\" was founded in 1857.\nThe state of Morelos was established in 1869; the \"Villa de Tetecala\" became a city and adopted the name \"Tetecala de la Reforma\" on December 11, 1873.\n20th Century and revolution.\nAt the outbreak of the Mexican Revolution in 1910, the owners of the haciendas of Contlalco, Cuautitla, Actopan, and Santa Cruz and wealthy merchants fled the municipality. Several groups of peasants joined the rebel \"Zapatista\" forces. Atrocities were committed by both sides in the conflict, although the terrorism spread by Carranza general Pablo Gonz\u00e1lez Garza was without precedent.\nThe distillery and ice house \"La Morelense\" functioned from 1935 to 1936. There were several sugar and rice mills in the community, which were dismantled in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Former employees became low-income wage earners, and many joined the popular movement led by Rub\u00e9n Jaramillo. When Jamarillo and his family were gunned down by federal police in 1962, his body was taken to the \"Miguel Hidalgo Hospital\" (now the House of Culture) in Tetecala for autopsy, which was performed by Dr. Ernesto Gonz\u00e1lez Brito.\nDuring the 1990s, Amado Carrillo Fuentes, known as \"El Se\u00f1or de los Cielos\" (Lord of the Skies) used to hold fiestas for his drug-dealing friends at his home in Tetecala while the government of Jorge Carrillo Olea seemingly looked the other way.\n21st Century.\nThe Escuela de Estudios Superiores de Tetecala (School of Higher Education of Tetecala), affiliated with the Morelos State University opened in August 2016 in Mazatepec. The initial programs were in nursing and nutrition; a program for Rural Surgeons opened in January 2018. The school had 208 students; the rector of the UAEM was Gustavo Urquiza Beltr\u00e1n, and the first director of the school in Tetecala was Miriam Tapia.\nSix people died during the September 19, 2017 earthquake.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of April 27, 2020; two cases were reported in Tetecala. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On July 2, Tetecala reported 11 infections and three deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Tetecala reported 13 cases, 13 recuperations, but no deaths from the virus as of August 31. Twenty-two cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nTourism and attractions.\nThe church of San Francisco of Assisi is in the historic center of Tetecala. It was built in the 18th century in Neoclassic style. The chapel of the Virgin of Candlemas, also from the 18th century, is located on the federal highway. There is a colonial-era fountain in front of the chapel of the \"Alma de de la Virgin\".\nThe area along the Chalma River has lush vegetation, a variety of fruit trees, and abundant fauna. There are old historic mansions housing the House of Culture and the regional public library. President Benito Juarez stayed here when he visited the city in 1857.\nThe water park \"La Playa\", which features five pools and offers alternative medicine, is found in the municipality. There is a panoramic view of the town from the top of the hill of \"Las Cruces\". \"Cascos de las Haciendas\" (manor houses) nearby include Santa Cruz Vista Alegre, Actopan, Cuautlita, and Cocoyotla).\nThe traditional \"tianguis\" (market) is on Tuesday.\nCulture.\nLocal fiestas are held on February 2 (Virgen de la Candelaria) in Tetecala, May 15 (St. Isidore the Laborer) in Actopan, July 31 (St. Ignatius of Loyola) in Actopan, September 29 (St. Michael the Archangel) in Cuautitla, October 4 (San Francisco de As\u00eds) in Tetecala, and December 12 (Virgin of Guadalupe) in the \"El Paso\" neighborhood.\nThere are two brass bands, one Cuautlita and another in Tetecala. Tetecala was the birthplace of several well-known performers and composers.\nSaddle-making and basket weaving are local handicrafts.\nLocal food includes corn or chickpea \"pozole\" with pork, chicken and even shrimp; beef jerky with cream and cheese or pork enchilada; green pip \"mole\", red turkey \"mole\", fish in \"mixiote\", tamal, and \"clemole\" seasoned with wild plums and tamarind; peppers stuffed with cheese and mincemeat, and \"huazontles\". Traditional sweets such as pumpkin, sweet pip\u00edan, crystallized fruit, quince, tejocote, fruits in syrup, cajeta (crystalized goat's milk), bu\u00f1uelos, and ice cream are also made.\nCommunities.\n\"Tetecala de la Reforma\" is the municipal seat. Colonias \"El Charco, San Francisco Sarabia,\" and \"El Cerrito de las Cruces\" are parts of the city. The city is 47\u00a0km (29 miles) south of Cuernavaca and 135\u00a0km (84 miles) from Mexico City.\n\"Cuautlita\" is located 6\u00a0km southeast of the Tetecala de la Reforma and includes \"Colonia Mariano Matamoros\".\n\"Contlalco\" is 25\u00a0km south of Tetecala de la Reforma.\n\"Actopan\" is 1\u00a0km west of Tetecala de la Reforma."}
{"id": "732144", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732144", "title": "Marcolino Moco", "text": "Marcolino Jos\u00e9 Carlos Moco (born June 19, 1953 in Chitue, Ekunha) is an Angolan politician. He was the 3rd Prime Minister of Angola from December 2, 1992, until June 3, 1996. He served as the first Executive Secretary of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, also known as the Lusophone Commonwealth.\nCareer.\nMoco was fired from his role by President Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos. Santos removed the entire cabinet alongside the Governor of the central bank in a bid to be seen as decisive. Moco was a member of the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), the party of the President, which had been the ruling party until 1991, shortly before Moco became Prime Minister (with an interlude by a government of national unity, after which the MPLA again became the ruling party until the present).\nCPLP.\nIn July 1996, Moco became the first Executive Secretary of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, a new international organization which Portugal and most of its former colonies, including Angola, joined. Moco's term as Executive Secretary ended in 2000.\nPersonal life.\nMoco's eldest son is Chilala Moco, a photographer based in Angola and Portugal."}
{"id": "732145", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732145", "title": "Tetela del Volc\u00e1n", "text": "Tetela del Volc\u00e1n or simply Tetela, is a town and municipal seat of the municipality of Tetela del Volc\u00e1n in the Mexican state of Morelos. It is located on the slopes of the volcano Popocat\u00e9petl. .\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name. It is notable for its sixteenth century Dominican ex-convent which together with a number of other early monasteries nearby in the area has been declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The municipality reported 20,698 inhabitants in the year 2015 census. Other towns in the municipality of Tetela del Volc\u00e1n include Hueyapan, \"Xochicalco\" (not to be confused with the archeological site of the same name) and \"Tlamimilulpan\".\nThe toponym \"Tetela\" comes from Nahuatl and means \"place of rocks\". The \"Volc\u00e1n\" (\"volcano\") referred to is, of course, Popocat\u00e9petl.\nHistory.\nIn 1503, Tetela del Volc\u00e1n and nearby Hueyapan were subjugated to the Aztec Empire by Moctezuma II. The first Spaniards to arrive in Tetela were and Pedro de Alvarado in 1519. After the fall of Tenochtitl\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s arrived in Tetela del Volc\u00e1n, where he found the Indians to be resistant and fierce. According to Diego Dur\u00e1n their subjugation was achieved only thanks to the intervention of Mar\u00eda Estrada and her husband Pedro S\u00e1nchez Farf\u00e1n, for which Cort\u00e9s awarded the couple the lands of Tetela as an encomienda. In 1561 this \"encomienda\" was revoked and laid under the Spanish Crown directly, and in the \"Relacion Geogr\u00e1fica\" from 1665 this \"realengo\" appears to be administrated by corregidor Crist\u00f3bal Mart\u00ednez de Maldonado.\nIn the 17th century, the indigenous authorities were still functioning to a large extent (Gibson) and the Spanish and native government coexisted for a while as separate systems.\nIn 1784, Tetela del Volc\u00e1n was incorporated into the Subdelegaci\u00f3n de Cuautla and lost its status as \"cabecera\" (capital) of the district. When the administrative structure of \"corregimientos\" and \"alcald\u00edas\" was abolished, Tetela lost its special status.\nWhen the state of Morelos was first established, Tetela del Volc\u00e1n belonged to the municipality of Ocuituco. It was established as a separate municipality on January 31, 1937, during the government of L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas. During the early period of PRI governance, municipal presidents were mostly appointed by the state governor.\nAfter the 2006 Mexican election, Mario Soberanes (Nueva Alianza) was elected municipal president and became the first citizen of Hueyapan to be elected president of the municipality. He was also the first municipal president from a party other than the Institutional Revolutionary Party since the municipality's founding.\nThere were two major earthquakes in 2017. The Chiapas earthquake on September 7 did not cause any damage in Morelos, but the 2017 Puebla earthquake centered in Axochiapan twelve days later killed 74 people in the state and caused physical damage to 20,000 buildings. Tetela del Volc\u00e1n was the municipality with most severe damage, with 831 homes destroyed and 1,058 damaged.\nIn response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Tetela del Volcan blocked the entrances to the community. The state of Morelos reported 1,238 cases and 248 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of May 25, 2020; eight cases were reported in Tetela del Volc\u00e1n. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. The state office of DIF sent food and water to vulnerable groups of people in eight municipalities including Tetela del Volc\u00e1n on May 26. On July 2, Tetela del Volc\u00e1n reported four infections but no deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Tetela reported 28 cases, 23 recuperations, and 5 deaths from the virus as of August 31. Forty-seven cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nMonastery.\nThe monastery of San Juan Bautista in Tetela del Volc\u00e1n is one of the Monasteries on the slopes of Popocat\u00e9petl and a UNESCO world heritage site. It was built by the Dominicans in the first half of the 16th century and was even visited by Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s. The exterior has arcades that surround the complex but are partially hidden by trees. The upper parts of the walls around the complex are covered in paint, the lower floor of the cloister has figures depicted in the arches and walls. In the vaults over the walkways, there are numerous cherubs defeating evil spirits and some even fighting with each other. One unique architectural element is the Moorish-style wood beam roofing in the sacristy.\nCommunities.\nSister city: Pharr, Texas"}
{"id": "732146", "revid": "40530670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732146", "title": "PBT", "text": "PBT may refer to:"}
{"id": "732147", "revid": "35107032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732147", "title": "Front porch", "text": ""}
{"id": "732148", "revid": "21408729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732148", "title": "Dupuytren's contracture", "text": "Dupuytren's contracture (also called Dupuytren's disease, Morbus Dupuytren, Palmar fibromatosis and historically as Viking disease or Celtic hand) is a condition in which one or more fingers become permanently bent in a flexed position. It is named after Guillaume Dupuytren, who first described the underlying mechanism of action, followed by the first successful operation in 1831 and publication of the results in \"The Lancet\" in 1834. It usually begins as small, hard nodules just under the skin of the palm, then worsens over time until the fingers can no longer be fully straightened. While typically not painful, some aching or itching, or pain, may be present. The ring finger followed by the little and middle fingers are most commonly affected. It can affect one or both hands. The condition can interfere with activities such as preparing food, writing, putting the hand in a tight pocket, putting on gloves, or shaking hands.\nThere's no single cause for Dupuytren's contracture, but there are several risk factors that are associated with an increased risk of developing it. The cause is unknown but might have a genetic component. Risk factors include family history, alcoholism, smoking, thyroid problems, liver disease, diabetes, previous hand trauma, and epilepsy. The underlying mechanism involves the formation of abnormal connective tissue within the palmar fascia. Diagnosis is usually based on physical examination. In some cases imaging may be indicated.\nIn 2020, the World Health Organization reclassified Dupuytren's (termed palmar-type fibromatosis) as a specific type of tumor in the category of intermediate (locally aggressive) fibroblastic and myofibroblastic tumors.\nInitial treatment is typically with cortisone injected into the affected area, occupational therapy, and physical therapy. Among those who worsen, clostridial collagenase injections or surgery may be tried. Radiation therapy may be used to treat this condition. The Royal College of Radiologists (RCR) Faculty of Clinical Oncology concluded that radiotherapy is effective in early stage disease which has progressed within the last 6 to 12 months. The condition may recur at some time after treatment; it can then be treated again. It is easier to treat when the amount of finger bending is more mild.\nIt was once believed that Dupuytren's most often occurred in white males over the age of 50 and was thought to be rare among Asians and Africans. It sometimes was called \"Viking disease,\" since it was often recorded among those of Nordic descent. In Norway, about 30% of men over 60 years old have the condition, while in the United States about 5% of people are affected at some point in time. In the United Kingdom, about 20% of people over 65 have some form of the disease.\nMore recent and wider studies show the highest prevalence in Africa (17 percent) and Asia (15 percent).\nSigns and symptoms.\nTypically, Dupuytren's contracture first presents as a thickening or nodule in the palm, which initially can be with or without pain. Later in the disease process, which can be years later, there is increasing loss of range of motion of the affected finger(s). The earliest sign of a contracture is a triangular \"puckering\" of the skin of the palm as it passes over the flexor tendon just before the flexor crease of the finger, at the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint.\nDupuytren disease is generally considered painless, but can be painful if nerve tissue is involved, although this is not usually discussed in the literature. The most common finger to be affected is the ring finger; the thumb and index finger are much less often affected. \nThe disease begins in the palm and moves towards the fingers, with the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints affected before the proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints. The MCP joints at the base of the finger responds much better to treatment and are usually able to fully extend after treatment. Due to anatomic differences in the ligaments and extensor tendons at the PIP joints, they may have some residual flexion. Proper patient education is necessary to set realistic treatment expectation. In Dupuytren's contracture, the palmar fascia within the hand becomes abnormally thick, which can cause the fingers to curl and can impair finger function. The main function of the palmar fascia is to increase grip strength; thus, over time, Dupuytren's contracture decreases a person's ability to hold objects and use the hand in many different activities. Dupuytren's contracture can also be experienced as embarrassing in social situations and can affect quality of life. People may report pain, aching, and itching with the contractions. Normally, the palmar fascia consists of collagen type I, but in Dupuytren patients, the collagen changes to collagen type III, which is significantly thicker than collagen type I.\nRelated conditions.\nPeople with severe involvement often show lumps on the back of their finger joints (called \"Garrod's pads\", \"knuckle pads\", or \"dorsal Dupuytren nodules\"), and lumps in the arch of the feet (plantar fibromatosis or Ledderhose disease). In severe cases, the area where the palm meets the wrist may develop lumps. It is thought the condition Peyronie's disease is related to Dupuytren's contracture.\nIn one study those with stage 2 of the disease were found to have a slightly increased risk of mortality, especially from cancer.\nRisk factors.\nMany risk factors have been suggested or identified:\nDiagnosis.\nTypes.\nThere may be three types of Dupuytren's disease:\nTreatment.\nTreatment is indicated when the so-called table-top test is positive. With this test, the person places their hand on a table. If the hand lies completely flat on the table, the test is considered negative. If the hand cannot be placed completely flat on the table, leaving a space between the table and a part of the hand as big as the diameter of a ballpoint pen, the test is considered positive and surgery or other treatment may be indicated. Additionally, finger joints may become fixed and rigid. There are several types of treatment, with some hands needing repeated treatment.\nThe main categories listed by the International Dupuytren Society in order of stage of disease are radiation therapy, needle aponeurotomy (NA), collagenase injection, and hand surgery. the evidence on the efficacy of radiation therapy was considered inadequate in quantity and quality, and difficult to interpret because of uncertainty about the natural history of Dupuytren's disease.\nNeedle aponeurotomy is most effective for Stages I and II, covering 6\u201390 degrees of deformation of the finger. However, it is also used at other stages. Collagenase injection is likewise most effective for Stages I and II. However, it is also used at other stages.\nHand surgery is effective at stage I to stage IV.\nUse of a splint to keep treated fingers straight following various forms of treatment, typically at all times for some days, then at nighttime for some weeks, is usual. However, a 2015 Cochrane review concluded: \"low-quality evidence suggests that postoperative splinting may not improve outcomes and may impair outcomes by reducing active flexion. Further trials on this topic are urgently required\".\nSurgery.\nOn 12 June 1831, Dupuytren performed a surgical procedure on a person with contracture of the fourth and fifth digits who had been previously told by other surgeons that the only remedy was cutting the flexor tendons. He described the condition and the operation in \"The Lancet\" in 1834 after presenting it in 1833, and posthumously in 1836 in a French publication by H\u00f4tel-Dieu de Paris. The procedure he described was a minimally invasive needle procedure.\nBecause of high recurrence rates, new surgical techniques were introduced, such as fasciectomy and then dermofasciectomy. Most of the diseased tissue is removed with these procedures. For some individuals, the partial insertion of \"K-wires\" into either the DIP or PIP joint of the affected digit for a period of a least 21 days to fuse the joint is the only way to halt the disease's progress. After removal of the wires, the joint is fixed into flexion, which is considered preferable to fusion at extension.\nResearch using large datasets in the UK has shown surgery to be safe and effective. When surgery needs to be repeated, however, the research suggests there are higher risks of serious complications such as finger amputation. Amputation of fingers may be needed for severe or recurrent cases or after surgical complications.\nLimited fasciectomy.\nLimited/selective fasciectomy removes the pathological tissue, and is a common approach. A 2015 Cochrane review reported that low-quality evidence suggested that fasciectomy may be more effective for people with advanced Dupuytren's contractures.\nDuring the procedure, the person is under regional or general anesthesia. A surgical tourniquet prevents blood flow to the limb. The skin is often opened with a zig-zag incision but straight incisions with or without Z-plasty are also described and may reduce damage to neurovascular bundles. All diseased cords and fascia are excised. The excision has to be very precise to spare the neurovascular bundles. Because not all the diseased tissue is visible macroscopically, complete excision is uncertain.\nA 20-year review of surgical complications associated with fasciectomy showed that major complications occurred in 15.7% of cases, including digital nerve injury (3.4%), digital artery injury (2%), infection (2.4%), hematoma (2.1%), and complex regional pain syndrome (5.5%), in addition to minor complications including painful flare reactions in 9.9% of cases and wound healing complications in 22.9% of cases. After the tissue is removed the incision is closed. In the case of a shortage of skin, the transverse part of the zig-zag incision is left open. Stitches are removed 10 days after surgery.\nAfter surgery, the hand is wrapped in a light compressive bandage for one week. Flexion and extension of the fingers can start as soon as the anaesthesia has resolved. It is common to experience tingling within the first week after surgery. Hand therapy is often recommended. Approximately six weeks after surgery the patient is able completely to use the hand.\nThe average recurrence rate is 39% after a fasciectomy after a median interval of about four years.\nWide-awake fasciectomy.\nLimited/selective fasciectomy under local anesthesia (LA) with epinephrine but no tourniquet is possible. In 2005, Denkler described the technique.\nDermofasciectomy.\nDermofasciectomy is a surgical procedure that may be used when:\nTypically, the excised skin is replaced with a skin graft, usually full thickness, consisting of the epidermis and the entire dermis. In most cases the graft is taken from the antecubital fossa (the crease of skin at the elbow joint) or the inner side of the upper arm. This place is chosen because the skin color best matches the palm's skin color. The skin on the inner side of the upper arm is thin and has enough skin to supply a full-thickness graft. The donor site can be closed with a direct suture.\nThe graft is sutured to the skin surrounding the wound. For one week the hand is protected with a dressing. The hand and arm are elevated with a sling. The dressing is then removed and careful mobilization can be started, gradually increasing in intensity. After this procedure the risk of recurrence is minimised, but Dupuytren's can recur in the skin graft and complications from surgery may occur.\nSegmental fasciectomy with/without cellulose.\nSegmental fasciectomy involves excising part(s) of the contracted cord so that it disappears or no longer contracts the finger. It is less invasive than the limited fasciectomy, because not all the diseased tissue is excised and the skin incisions are smaller.\nThe person is placed under regional anesthesia and a surgical tourniquet is used. The skin is opened with small curved incisions over the diseased tissue. If necessary, incisions are made in the fingers. Pieces of cord and fascia of approximately one centimeter are excised. The cords are placed under maximum tension while they are cut. A scalpel is used to separate the tissues. The surgeon keeps removing small parts until the finger can fully extend. The patient is encouraged to start moving their hand the day after surgery. After surgery people wear a light pressure dressing for four days, followed by an extension splint, typically continuously for a few weeks, then every night for eight weeks.\nThe same procedure is used in the segmental fasciectomy with cellulose implant. After the excision and a careful hemostasis, the cellulose implant is placed in a single layer in between the remaining parts of the cord.\nLess invasive treatments.\nStudies have been conducted for percutaneous release, extensive percutaneous aponeurotomy with lipografting and collagenase. These treatments show promise.\nPercutaneous needle fasciotomy.\nNeedle aponeurotomy is a minimally-invasive technique where the cords are weakened through the insertion and manipulation of a small needle. It is applicable only if the contracture is clearly visible. The hand is first numbed by injection with local anaesthetic. The cord is then sectioned at as many levels as possible in the palm and fingers, depending on the location and extent of the disease, using perhaps a 25-gauge needle mounted on a 10 ml syringe. Once weakened, the offending cords can be snapped by putting tension on the finger(s) and pulling the finger(s) straight. After the treatment a small dressing is applied for 24 hours, after which people are able to use their hands normally. No splints or physiotherapy are given.\nThe advantage of needle aponeurotomy is the minimal intervention without incision (done in the office under local anesthesia) and the very rapid return to normal activities without need for rehabilitation, but the nodules may resume growing. A study reported postoperative gain is greater at the MCP joint level than at the level of the IP-joint and found a reoperation rate of 24%; complications are scarce. Needle aponeurotomy may be performed on fingers that are severely bent (stage IV), and not just in early stages. A 2003 study showed 85% recurrence rate after five years.\nA comprehensive review of the results of needle aponeurotomy in 1,013 fingers was performed by Gary M. Pess, MD, Rebecca Pess, DPT, and Rachel Pess, PsyD, and published in the \"Journal of Hand Surgery\" April 2012. Minimal follow-up was three years. Metacarpophalangeal joint (MP) contractures were corrected at an average of 99% and proximal interphalangeal joint (PIP) contractures at an average of 89% immediately post procedure. At final follow-up, 72% of the correction was maintained for MP joints and 31% for PIP joints. The difference between the final corrections for MP versus PIP joints was statistically significant. When comparing people aged below and above 55 years of age there was a statistically significant difference at both MP and PIP joints, with greater correction maintained in the older group.\nGender differences were not statistically significant. Needle aponeurotomy provided successful correction to 5\u00b0 or less contracture immediately post procedure in 98% (791) of MP joints and 67% (350) of PIP joints. There was recurrence of 20\u00b0 or less over the original post-procedure corrected level in 80% (646) of MP joints and 35% (183) of PIP joints. Complications were rare except for skin tears, which occurred in 3.4% (34) of digits. This study showed that NA is a safe procedure that can be performed in an outpatient setting. The complication rate was low, but recurrences were frequent in younger people and for PIP contractures.\nExtensive percutaneous aponeurotomy and lipografting.\nA technique introduced in 2011 is extensive percutaneous aponeurotomy with lipografting. This procedure also uses a needle to cut the cords. The difference with the percutaneous needle fasciotomy is that the cord is cut at many places. The cord is also separated from the skin to make place for the lipograft that is taken from the abdomen or ipsilateral flank. This technique shortens the recovery time. The fat graft results in supple skin.\nBefore the aponeurotomy, a liposuction is done to the abdomen and ipsilateral flank to collect the lipograft. The treatment can be performed under regional or general anesthesia. The digits are placed under maximal extension tension using a firm lead hand retractor. The surgeon makes multiple palmar puncture wounds with small nicks. The tension on the cords is crucial, because tight constricting bands are most susceptible to be cut and torn by the small nicks, whereas the relatively loose neurovascular structures are spared. After the cord is completely cut and separated from the skin the lipograft is injected under the skin. A total of about 5 to 10 ml is injected per ray.\nAfter the treatment the person wears an extension splint for 5 to 7 days. Thereafter the person returns to normal activities and is advised to use a night splint for up to 20 weeks.\nCollagenase.\nThe cords are weakened through the injection of small amounts of the enzyme collagenase, which breaks peptide bonds in collagen.\nClostridial collagenase injections have been found to be more effective than placebo.\nIn February 2010 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved injectable collagenase extracted from \"Clostridium histolyticum\" for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture in adults with a palpable Dupuytren's cord. (Three years later, it was approved as well for the treatment of the sometimes related Peyronie's disease.) In 2011 its use for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture was approved as well by the European Medicines Agency, and it received similar approval in Australia in 2013. However, the Swedish manufacturer withdrew distribution of this drug in Europe including the UK, Australia, and Asia in March 2020. (It is also used in the US as a dermatological treatment for cellulite aka \"cottage cheese thighs\").\nThe treatment with collagenase is different for the MCP joint and the PIP joint. In a MCP joint contracture the needle must be placed at the point of maximum bowstringing of the palpable cord. The needle is placed vertically on the bowstring. The collagenase is distributed across three injection points. For the PIP joint the needle must be placed not more than 4\u00a0mm distal to palmar digital crease at 2\u20133\u00a0mm depth. The injection for PIP consists of one injection filled with 0.58\u00a0mg CCH 0.20 ml. The needle must be placed horizontal to the cord and also uses a three-point distribution. After the injection the person's hand is wrapped in bulky gauze dressing and must be elevated for the rest of the day. After 24 hours the person returns for passive digital extension to rupture the cord. Moderate pressure for 10\u201320 seconds ruptures the cord. After the treatment with collagenase the person should use a night splint and perform digital flexion/extension exercises several times per day for 4 months.\nRadiation therapy.\nRadiation therapy has been used mostly for early-stage disease, but is unproven. Evidence to support its use , however, was scarce\u2014efforts to gather evidence are complicated due to a poor understanding of how the condition develops over time. It has been studied in early disease. The Royal College of Radiologists concluded that radiotherapy is effective in early stage disease which has progressed within the last 6 to 12 months.\nAlternative medicine.\nSeveral alternate therapies such as vitamin E treatment have been studied, though without control groups. Most doctors do not value those treatments. None of these treatments stops or cures the condition permanently. A 1949 study of vitamin E therapy found that \"In twelve of the thirteen patients there was no evidence whatever of any alteration. ... The treatment has been abandoned.\"\n\"Cold\" laser treatment or \"photomodulation\" (using red and infrared at low power) was informally discussed in 2013 at an International Dupuytren Society forum, as of which time little or no formal evaluation of the techniques had been completed. The term \"photobiomodulation\" has expanded to include other low-power light sources such as blue LEDs, making it a form of light therapy rather than specifically a laser-based treatment. No human trials have been performed yet.\nIn 2021 improvement of Dupuytren's disease in a single patient by ablative laser surgery with a fractionated 10.6\u00a0\u03bcm carbon-dioxide laser was reported. This is different from a cold laser: in laser surgery, tissue is physically removed by heat by photoablation (also known as \"laser blasting\").\nPostoperative care.\nPostoperative care involves hand therapy and splinting. Hand therapy is prescribed to optimize post-surgical function and to prevent joint stiffness. The extent of hand therapy is depending on the patient and the corrective procedure.\nBesides hand therapy, many surgeons advise the use of static or dynamic splints after surgery to maintain finger mobility. The splint is used to provide prolonged stretch to the healing tissues and prevent flexion contractures. Although splinting is a widely used post-operative intervention, evidence of its effectiveness is limited, leading to variation in splinting approaches. Most surgeons use clinical experience to decide whether to splint. Cited advantages include maintenance of finger extension and prevention of new flexion contractures. Cited disadvantages include joint stiffness, prolonged pain, discomfort, subsequently reduced function and edema.\nA third approach emphasizes early self-exercise and stretching.\nPrognosis.\nDupuytren's disease has a high recurrence rate, especially when a person has so-called Dupuytren's diathesis. The term diathesis relates to certain features of Dupuytren's disease, and indicates an aggressive course of disease.\nThe presence of all new Dupuytren's diathesis factors increases the risk of recurrent Dupuytren's disease by 71%, compared with a baseline risk of 23% in people lacking the factors. In another study the prognostic value of diathesis was evaluated. It was concluded that presence of diathesis can predict recurrence and extension. A scoring system was made to evaluate the risk of recurrence and extension, based on the following values: bilateral hand involvement, little-finger surgery, early onset of disease, plantar fibrosis, knuckle pads, and radial side involvement.\nMinimally invasive therapies may precede higher recurrence rates. Recurrence lacks a consensus definition. Furthermore, different standards and measurements follow from the various definitions."}
{"id": "732149", "revid": "51060604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732149", "title": "Tlalnepantla, Morelos", "text": "Tlalnepantla is the name of a city and a municipality in the Mexican state of Morelos.\nThe city reported a population of 3,872 inhabitants, while its municipality reported 7,166 inhabitants in the 2015 census. It is the least populous of the 17 municipalities that border Mexico City, bordering the capital city's southeastern Milpa Alta borough. Tlalnepantla is located 57 kilometers (35 miles) northeast of Cuernavaca.\nName.\nThe name Tlalnepantla means \"In the middle of the lands\" in Nahuatl, which may be interpreted as \"In the middle of the mountains\". According to Reyes and Robelo this town was originally called Tlalnepantla Kuauhtenko; this second place name means \"On the shore of the eagles\"; its etymology from \"Kuauh-tli\", \"eagle\"; \"ten-tli\", \"shore or lip\", and \"ko\", adverb of \"place\"; however, in the hieroglyph the sign of the tree is clearly seen between two parts of the earth. It is supposed to be related to the terrestrial meridian, nearly the same as the Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral.\nThe municipality.\nTowns and villages.\nThe largest localities (cities, towns, and villages) are:\nOther communities include Fraccionamiento Calmil, Campo Aguacomulco, Bosques de Morelos, Campo Jazm\u00edn, and Fraccionamiento los Robles.\nHistory.\nRuins of settlements of Nahuas and Nahuatl-speaking Tlahuicas have been found since before the founding of Tlalnepantla.\nBy the 1590s a town called Teocaltitla was established northwest about seven kilometers from the present municipal seat. Ruins of its church, including plaster, can still be seen. The ruins of the town of San Bartolom\u00e9 (\"Cohamilpa\") are located about four kilometers west of Tlalnepantla. Ruins of the San Nicol\u00e1s Tolentino neighborhood (\"Teopancasholtitla\"), founded in 1600, are located six kilometers from Tlalnepantla. San Felipe, also founded in the 1600s, is located five kilometers away.\nTlalnepantla-Cuahutenco was formed by Fray Toribio and Fray Juan de Zum\u00e1rraga between 1680 and 1690 by grouping the people into five \"barrios\"\u2014San Pedro, San Felipe, San Nicol\u00e1s, San Bartolo, Santiagoof\u2014with about 800 people each. It took the simpler name Tlalnepantla in 1869.\nConstruction of the convent and the parish of the Purification was begun by the Augustinians in the 16th century and completed in 1791. The former monastery of the Precious Blood of Christ also dates from the same time. The church was burned during the Mexican War of Independence and was renovated in 1933.\nTlalnepantla became a municipal seat in the State of Mexico on October 11, 1848. It became part of Morelos on April 17, 1869.\nA telephone line was established between 1880 and 1910 near Tenecuilco where President Porfirio D\u00edaz had a hunting lodge.\nThe ex-hacienda of Cuatepec or Coatepec was built during colonial times. During the Mexican Revolution the hacienda was looted and burned, then abandoned by its owner. The peasants divided the land and the community adopted the name of General Felipe Neri, a Zapatista who was killed by rival general Antonio Barona Rojas. The town's foundation is celebrated on February 8.\nThe first carnaval in Tlalnepantla was organized by Pablo Lima in 1905; \"carnaval\" was suspended during the Revolution and started again in 1929.\nEl Vig\u00eda, also called San Nicol\u00e1s del Monte, was formed by uniting the barrios of San Miguel, San Francisco, San Pedro, and San Lucas. San Nicol\u00e1s del Monte was isolated until Mexican Federal Highway 113 was built in 1973. The town changed its name to El Vig\u00eda in 1973 because during the Revolution it was used to warn people when enemy armies were approaching. El Pedregal was founded by Teofilo Pacheco in 1975.\nAt least 340 homes were damaged during the 2017 Puebla earthquake, but no deaths or injuries were reported in the municipality.\nRigoberto Espindola Gonzalez of the Panal was elected Presidente Municipal on July 1, 2018.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of April 27, 2020; one case was reported in Tlatnapantla. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid-March until June 1. On July 2, Tlalnepantla reported 33 infections and four deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Tlalnepantla reported 19 cases, 18 recuperations, and two deaths from the virus as of August 31. Twenty-one cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nNotable people.\nMunicipal presidents (1958\u2013present)\nGeography.\nLocation.\nTlalnepantla is located in northern Morelos state, with Milpa Alta, Mexico City and Juchitepec, State of Mexico to the north; Tepoztl\u00e1n to the west, Tlayacapan to the east, and Totolapan to the east. It is located at 18\u00b057'N and 98\u00b014'W of Greenwich. With an average altitude of 2,060 meters above sea level, it is the third highest municipality in the state, exceeded only by Huitzilac (2,500 m) and Tetela del Volc\u00e1n (2,200 m).\nArea.\n, which is 2.2% of the total territory of Morelos.\nRelief.\nMost of the municipality is in the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt. The highest peaks are:\nApproximately 16% of the total surface is rugged, 78% is semi-flat, and 0.5% is flat (mostly in the north, west, and southeast).\nWater resources.\nThere are no rivers or streams in Tlalnepantla. Rainwater is caught in the canyons and gullies of Cuatizec, Tlatenchi, Teshohuaca, and Tepeclapa. There is an average of of annual precipitation.\nClimate.\nThe climate in the municipality is temperate sub-humid, with an average annual temperature of and an average annual rainfall of . Tlalnepantla is one of the municipalities with the highest annual precipitation.\nAt a height of , San Felipe Neri merits special attention. The climate is temperate sub-humid, with rainfall in summer, average annual temperature between , with a cool and long summer.\nFlora.\nFlora consists mainly of Temperate coniferous forest: pine, oak, fir, ash, elm, tejocote (a fruit tree), and ocotillo (a shrub). There is a wide variety of medicinal plants such as squaw mint (for stomach pain), lemon balm (taken as tea), tochete (mint), tabaquillo, mullein (used to heal wounds), and Valerian (herb) (for rheumatism).\nFauna.\nFauna includes white-tailed deer, skunk, Mexican volcano mouse, mountain lions, quail, coyote, wolf, wildcat, cacomistle (raccoon), opossum, ocelot, ferret, rabbit, iguana, snakes, scorpion, chameleon, roadrunner, and woodpecker. Hunting is prohibited in the forest.\nNatural resources.\nAgricultural land and forests are the most important natural resources.\nSoil.\nMost soils consist of humus and clay. Of the , (38%) are used for farming. Forest consists of or 61% of the land, while the rest is used for buildings.\nEconomy.\nThe main economic activity of this municipality is agriculture, of which 89% is the cultivation of prickly pears or nopales. Both the fruit and the leaves are sold in Mexico City, Monterrey, Tijuana, and even the United States. Corn and tomatoes, which were once staple crops, now take second place to this cactus. Fruit trees were introduced by Spanish missionaries, and some fruit, particularly avocados, peaches, and pears are still gown today. Livestock are also raised.\nThere is controlled logging of the forests and a significant amount of wood is exploited. There are some fields for growing Christmas trees.\nCulture.\nMusic and dance.\nThere are four brass bands that regularly play at fairs in Tlalnepantla. Tropical music, cumbias, and Norte\u00f1o music are also popular.\nChinelos began in Tlayacapan but are now popular at carnivals and fairs throughout the region. The Chinelos costume consists of four main items: a long flowing robe made of velvet which usually has a rectangular shape tunic, a mask, a large plumed hat, and gloves. The masks are made of mesh and feature an upturned beard and European features.\nFood.\nNopales were introduced to Tlalnepantla about forty years ago, and today they can form the basis of many local dishes: sandwiches of nopal, nopales with cecina, tamales of nopal, and eggs with nopales, to name a few. Mole Verde, mole with chicken or pumpkin seed, and cecina with cheese are also traditional foods."}
{"id": "732152", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732152", "title": "Polybutylene terephthalate", "text": "Polybutylene terephthalate (PBT) is a thermoplastic engineering polymer that is used as an insulator in the electrical and electronics industries. It is a thermoplastic (semi-)crystalline polymer, and a type of polyester. PBT resists solvents, shrinks very little during forming, is mechanically strong, is heat-resistant up to (or with glass-fibre reinforcement), and can be treated with flame retardants to make it noncombustible. It was developed by Britain's Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI).\nPBT is closely related to other thermoplastic polyesters. Compared to PET (polyethylene terephthalate), PBT has slightly lower strength and rigidity, slightly better impact resistance, and a slightly lower glass transition temperature. PBT and PET are sensitive to hot water above (140\u00a0\u00b0F). PBT and PET need UV protection if used outdoors, and most grades of these polyesters are flammable, although additives can be used to improve both UV and flammability properties.\nPBT is produced by the polymerization of 1,4-butanediol and terephthalic acid.\nApplications.\nPolybutylene terephthalate is used for housings in electrical engineering, but also in automotive construction as plug connectors and in households for example in showerheads or irons. It is also found processed into toothbrush fibers and false eyelashes and is used in the keycaps of some high-end computer keyboards because the texture is highly resistant to wear and the plastic is less vulnerable to ultraviolet degradation and discoloration than the conventional ABS alternative.\nPBT can also be made into yarn. This has a natural stretch similar to Lycra and can be incorporated into sportswear. Due to its chlorine resistance it is commonly found in swimwear. Further, recent studies have shown that PBT has superior UV properties to PET based fabrics such as T400.\nPBT, especially glass fibre grades, can be effectively fire-retarded with halogen-free products. Phosphorus-based flame retardant systems are used in these fire-safe polymers and are based on aluminium diethyl phosphinate and synergists. They are designed to meet UL 94 flammability tests as well as Glow Wire Ignition Tests (GWIT), Glow Wire Flammability Test (GWFI) and Comparative Tracking Index (CTI). Main applications are in the electrical and electronics (E&amp;E) industry."}
{"id": "732154", "revid": "10202399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732154", "title": "Laughlin/Bullhead International Airport", "text": "Laughlin/Bullhead International Airport is a public use airport located north of the central business district of Bullhead City, in Mohave County, Arizona, United States. It is owned by Mohave County. The airport is across the Colorado River and one block away from Laughlin, Nevada. Many of the rooms at Laughlin's casino-hotels offer a view of the airport. It was named \"2011 Airport of the Year\" by the Arizona Department of Transportation.\nThis facility is included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems, which categorized it as a \"primary commercial service\" airport (more than 10,000 enplanements per year). As per Federal Aviation Administration records, the airport had 122,192 passenger boardings (enplanements) in calendar year 2008, 107,595 enplanements in 2009, and 121,468 in 2010.\nHistory.\nIn 1943, land was purchased from the state of Arizona for construction of Davis Dam power plant that was initiated by the Bureau of Reclamation in 1947. In 1943, the airport was established on Bureau of Land Management property about two miles south of the Davis Dam power plant construction site. The employees of the Davis Dam project graded and used the airport. In 1953, the dam was completed, and residential development commenced in the Bullhead City, Lake Mohave and Mohave Valley areas. Mohave County leased the Bullhead City Airport from BLM in 1968, and in 1971 the county subleased a portion of the Bullhead Airport to Bullhead Airport Inc., a private enterprise which provided fixed-base operation services.\nIn 1972, ADOT provided a $15,000 grant to aid in an airport improvement project for runway relocation, drainage, marking, lighting and fencing. In 1979, a new 25-year lease for the entire 135 acre airport was negotiated by the county with the newly formed Mohave County Airport Authority. In 1980, the Bullhead Airport Inc. sublease was renegotiated and ADOT provided $91,000 to overlay the old aircraft parking apron and extend it to the north. The FBO provided $10,000 to make other facility improvements. In 1983 BLM transferred airport property to the state of Arizona. In 1986 the Arizona State Land Department sold property that included the airport parcel to Bullhead Airport Inc through public auction with two stipulations. The buyer would have to dedicate 433 acres to Mohave County for airport use, and the buyer would need to complete a flood control project within two years of land purchase. In 1987 FAA and ADOT grants and entitlements were used to commence construction, and Mohave County Airport Authority formed two executive committees, one for Kingman and one for Bullhead/Laughlin. A whole new facility was then constructed on the east side of the original airport, opening in the early 1990s. The new facility included a much longer runway able to accommodate large jet traffic. The airport name was then changed to the current Laughlin/Bullhead City International Airport and a new IATA/FAA code of \"IFP\" was adopted, for \"International Fun Place\". The previous code had been \"BHC\" for \"Bullhead City Airport\". \nHistorical passenger service.\nDuring the 1980s the airport was served extensively by several commuter airlines including StatesWest Airlines, Mesa Airlines, Sun West Airlines, Air L.A., Golden Pacific Airlines, Scenic Airlines and Havasu Airlines which briefly operated under a code-share with Braniff. Flights were mainly operated to Phoenix, Las Vegas, and throughout Southern California. By the early 1990s, several of the commuter airlines began code-sharing with major airlines which included America West Express operated by Mesa Airlines, United Express, also operated by Mesa Airlines, and USAir Express, operated by StatesWest Airlines. All were operating Beechcraft 1900 commuter propjets and USAir Express briefly operated de Havilland Canada DHC-8 Dash 8 turboprops to Los Angeles. Upon opening of the new facility in 1993, airlines such as Air Laughlin, Vanguard Airlines, and Viscount Air Services began operating Boeing 737 and McDonnell Douglas DC-9 charter flights from Sky Harbor International Airport (PHX) in Phoenix. According to the Official Airline Guide, by February 1993 Morris Air began operating scheduled nonstop service between the airport and Salt Lake City (SLC) and later to San Francisco (SFO) with Boeing 737-300 jets. By December, 1993, Morris Air was operating scheduled nonstop Boeing 737-300 service between the airport and Oakland (OAK) and San Jose (SJC) as well as SLC. According to the April 1994 edition of the Official Airline Guide (OAG), Morris Air left the airport on June 5, 1994 and six months later Reno Air began service with McDonnell Douglas MD-80 flights five days a week from San Jose International Airport (SJC). Reno Air's jet service was also short-lived, ending on May 21, 1997. America West Express and United Express continued to operate propjets with nonstop and direct one stop service from Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), nonstop flights from Long Beach Airport (LGB), nonstop flights from Ontario International Airport (ONT), and nonstop and direct service from Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport (PHX). Many flights to Phoenix would stop at Lake Havasu City, Arizona. Other commuter airlines that briefly served the Laughlin/Bullhead City Airport in the 1990s include Arizona Airways with nonstop flights from Tucson International Airport (TUS) as well as direct one stop flights from Albuquerque (ABQ). Pacific Coast Airlines provided service to San Diego and Eagle Canyon Airlines to Las Vegas. A number of flights, especially those operated with mainline jet aircraft, were offered in conjunction with hotel packages. FedEx Express became the airport's main cargo airline during that decade. United Express ended their commuter flights to Los Angeles on November 9, 1996 and America West Express service to Phoenix ended in June, 2001.\nIn 2002, Sun Country Airlines initiated new jet service to Bullhead City from Minneapolis/St Paul, MN (MSP). The airline ultimately decided to make Laughlin/Bullhead International Airport a small hub for the southwestern U.S. region. In 2004 Ryan International Airlines returned the chartered jet services from the Phoenix area, flying between Bullhead City and the Phoenix-Mesa Gateway Airport (AZA), with McDonnell Douglas MD-82 jetliners. Passenger service was also operated by Western Express Air to Phoenix Deer Valley Airport in Arizona as well as Riverside Municipal Airport (RAL) in California with small commuter turboprop aircraft; however, these flights ended when that airline ceased operations at the end of May 2007.\nThe airport briefly saw a return in scheduled commercial service from February 16, 2017 through February 14, 2018, when American Eagle, operating via a code sharing agreement on behalf of American Airlines, provided a single daily flight to and from Phoenix (PHX) using a Bombardier CRJ700 series regional jet. However, this service proved to be unprofitable and was terminated after one year. The airport currently does not have any scheduled passenger service although regular casino charter flights provided by Sun Country Airlines and Allegiant Air continue to utilize the airport.\nAirport upgrades.\nIn 2008, the airport got a multimillion-dollar expansion and a heightened security system. During the same year, the largest aircraft ever to visit the airport, a Boeing 747SP widebody jetliner, landed on the recently expanded runway.\nPast airshows.\nIn March 2010 the airport hosted \"Legends Over the Colorado\", an air show with additional displays of an original Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress from World War II. The plane is part of the Commemorative Air Force Arizona Wing of the Commemorative Air Force, a Texas-based nonprofit organization that has fully restored the B-17 Flying Fortress \"Sentimental Journey\". Also on display were a North American T-6 Texan and four other warbirds.\nOn April 9\u201310, 2011, Laughlin/Bullhead International Airport held the second annual \"Legends Over the Colorado\". The main attraction was \"FIFI\", the only flying Boeing B-29 Superfortress in the world along with two North American P-51 Mustangs, a Japanese Mitsubishi A6M Zero, and several other World War II-era warbirds.\nUpgraded baggage facility.\nJuly 20, 2011, marked the opening of the new baggage claim building connected to the main terminal.\nPassenger charter traffic in 2016.\nMore than 109,000 people flew into Laughlin/Bullhead International Airport on casino-sponsored charter flights in 2016.\nFacilities.\nLaughlin/Bullhead International Airport covers an area of at an elevation of above mean sea level. It has one runway designated 16/34 with an asphalt surface measuring . The runway was recently reconstructed. Paid for by grants, actual site preparation was due to begin in 2013, and the date of completion was set for some time in 2013.\nSite preparation and drainage for extending runway 16/34 1000\u00a0ft. was completed in early 2016. Phase 2 of the Runway 16/34 &amp; Taxiway extension project was completed in early 2017, which included a 1000\u00a0ft extension of the runway and taxiway A, the addition of taxiway A9, and electrical improvements. Runway 16/34 is now 8,500\u00a0ft x 150\u00a0ft.\nA taxiway extends the length of the runway, connected seven taxiways. Taxiway A3, a high speed taxiway, is often used when landing to the north on Runway 34, as it leads to the terminal apron.\nA rotating beacon is located to the east of the runway near mid-field, on top of the air traffic control tower. The beacon operates during night hours, and when instrument meteorological conditions exist at the airport. The runway and taxiways have medium intensity lighting systems (MILS). Runway End Identifier Lights (REIL) are at each end of the runway, as well as lights showing the end of the threshold. A Precision Approach Path Indicator system is at each end. \"Lighted airfield signs at [IFP] are at aircraft hold positions, taxiway intersections, and at the intersection of the connecting taxiways and runways\". There are also mandatory hold signs. The medium intensity runway lighting can be turned on by a pilot clicking the radio transmission button in the cockpit. Airfield markings control the traffic efficiently on the ground. Runway 16/34 has centerline, threshold markings, aiming points, and runway designation markings. Taxiways have hold short markings before runway intersections and centerlines. The airport's aprons have centerlines to control traffic and designated tie down areas. A segmented circle is located to the west of the runway, mid-field, for visual reference on how a pilot should fly the traffic pattern for the runway.\nIFP has features that allow pilots in the area to be better informed of weather at the airport. These provide accurate and up-to-date weather information. Three lighted wind socks show wind directions and approximate speed. An Automated Weather Observation System (AWOS) was installed in 2007 and records weather data such as wind speed, wind gusts, wind direction, variable wind direction, temperature, dew point, altimeter setting, density altitude, visibility, variable visibility, precipitation, sky condition, and cloud height. The AWOS data can be heard in an aircraft if the pilot tunes in to 119.825 on the radio controls.\nThree main navigational aids assist pilots with navigation: very high frequency omnidirectional range facilities (VOR), a Loran-C, and a global positioning system (GPS). These can only be used with properly equipped aircraft. Although IFP does not have a VOR on the field, there are three at airports nearby: Kingman VOR/DME (distance measuring equipment) is to the east, Needles VORTAC (military tactical air navigational aids) is to the south, and Goffs VORTAC is to the west. GPS does not need facilities on the ground for navigational guidance because it uses satellites orbiting the Earth to triangulate the aircraft's position. Loran-C basically works the same way as a GPS, but with ground-based facilities around the country. Therefore, IFP does not have any navigational aids on airport property.\nIFP has three instrument approaches. Runway 16 has a GPS approach. Runway 34 has a GPS approach and a VOR approach using the Needles VORTAC. The GPS approach provides vertical guidance as well as course (horizontal) guidance. The Needles VORTAC approach only gives pilots course guidance. Runway 34's GPS approach provides the lowest minimums for the airport. The FAA approach plate for this instrument approach is shown in Appendix B. The GPS LPV approach allows aircraft to come down to about 640 feet above ground level (AGL). All landing traffic in VFR weather is kept to the west of the airfield. Right-turning traffic is for Runway 16 and left-turning traffic is for Runway 34.\nAn airport traffic control tower is used to control traffic on the ground at IFP and in the vicinity. It is only operational from 8:00 am to 6:00 pm Mountain Standard Time, the local time zone. The control tower is stationed at about midfield on the east side. When the control tower is closed, area traffic use the Common Traffic Advisory Frequency (CTAF). During non-towered hours, landing traffic operating under instrument flight rules (IFR) are controlled by the Los Angeles air route traffic control facility.\nThere are numerous landside facilities at IFP. A terminal that has ticket sales, security screening, rental car services, and airport administration is on the north side of the apron, connected to the departure holdroom by a covered walkway. There are no actual gates. Passengers walk out to their planes from the holdroom. Both of those use a pair of parking lots that have about 400 spaces. A rescue and firefighting building holds a rescue/firefighting vehicle as well as maintenance vehicles. There are also a charter bus loading area, a fuel farm owned and operated by Signature Flight Support which offers Jet A and 100LL, and 34 hangars ranging widely in sizes.\nAircraft Rescue and Firefighting Department.\nIn October 1991, Station 4 was opened at the Laughlin/Bullhead International Airport and was staffed full-time by the Bullhead City Fire Department. In 1997, the Mohave County Airport Authority (MCAA) elected to establish its own Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF) department in order to currently maintain an ARFF Index of \"B\". This department currently employs six firefighters, and the station is staffed twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. In September 2011, the Mohave County Airport Authority was awarded two airport improvement grants totaling $7.6 million from the Federal Aviation Administration. One of these grants was for construction of a new ARFF facility and the purchase of a new 2013 Oshkosh Striker ARFF apparatus.\nAircraft.\nFor the 12-month period ending December 31, 2016, the airport had 26,726 aircraft operations, an average of 73 per day: 23% general aviation, 9% air taxi, 4% scheduled commercial, and 64% military. At that time there were 22 aircraft based at this airport: 69% single-engine, 17% helicopter, 14% multi-engine, and 0% jet.\nIn popular culture.\nThe airport is seen as the departing airport for a \"Sierra Airlines\" flight to Fresno in the opening scenes of the 2003 comedy film \"View from the Top\"."}
{"id": "732155", "revid": "11009441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732155", "title": "International Territorial Level", "text": "International Territorial Level (ITL) is a geocode standard for referencing the subdivisions of the United Kingdom for statistical purposes, used by the Office for National Statistics (ONS). From 2003 and until 2020 it functioned as part of the European Union and European Statistical System's geocode standard Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics or NUTS.\nFollowing Brexit, the ONS set to develop a domestic statistical classification framework separate from NUTS. Currently, the ITLs are a mirror to the pre-existing NUTS system, they retain the same three level hierarchy and boundaries used for NUTS in the United Kingdom since 2018, with the next review scheduled for 2024. ITLs are set to follow a similar review timetable to NUTS, being reviewed every three years. The ONS will develop new official GSS codes of ITL geography aligned with the existing NUTS codes. From 1 January 2021, the ONS encourages \"ITL\" be used as a replacement to the \"NUTS\" designation, with lookups between NUTS and ITL maintained and published until 2023.\nThe current ITL classification is a mirror of the previous NUTS classification with slight modification, the ONS lists 12 regions at ITL 1, 41 regions at ITL 2, and 179 regions at ITL 3. \"UK\" in the NUTS codes were replaced with \"TL\".\nThe last NUTS classification is dated 21 November 2016 and was effective from 1 January 2018, listed 12 regions at NUTS 1, 40 regions at NUTS 2, and 174 regions at NUTS 3 level.\nDemographic statistics by ITL 1 region.\nThe 12 ITL regions of the United Kingdom are listed below. Population numbers are for mid-2019 (as NUTS 1), and areas are in square kilometres. Data is from the Office for National Statistics.\nHistory.\nNUTS 2003.\nIn the first version in 2003, North Eastern Scotland (which then included part of Moray) was coded UKM1, and Highlands and Islands was coded UKM4.\nThe codes in this scheme start with \"UKC\" to avoid confusion with codes in the previous system, which identified 11 regions of England using codes that started with \"UK1\" through \"UK9\" plus \"UKA\" and \"UKB\".\nNUTS 2006.\nNUTS 2006 came into force on 1 January 2008.\nNUTS 2010.\nNUTS 2010 came into force on 1 January 2012.\n2010 changes to NUTS 2 also resulting in changes with NUTS 3 regions\n2010 changes to NUTS 3 areas without changes occurring to NUTS 2 areas\nNUTS 2013.\nNUTS 2013 came into force on 1 January 2015.\n2015 changes to NUTS 3 areas without changes to NUTS 2 areas:\nIn 2015 the Greater London NUTS 1 area was left unchanged however the previous NUTS 2 area of inner and outer London were abolished and with the previous NUTS 3 areas becoming NUTS 2 areas. Thus NUTS 2 of Inner London West UKI11 becoming the NUTS 3 area of UKI3 and likewise: Inner London East (from UKI12 to UKI4), Outer London East and North East (from UKI21 to UKI5), Outer London South (from UKI22 to UKI6) and Outer London West and North West (from UKI23 to UKI7). The NUTS 3 areas are now a single or a group of two or three boroughs.\nITL 2021.\nFollowing Brexit, the classification used by the ONS was replaced with ITLs. Between 2021 and the next review scheduled for 2024, the ITLs are a mirror of the NUTS classification adopted in 2018. All NUTS codes containing \"UK\" were changed to use \"TL\" for \"Territorial Level\".\nLocal administrative units.\nBelow the ITL levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\nThe two LAU levels are maintained by the UK Office for National Statistics within the ONS coding system.\n\"The LAU codes of the United Kingdom can be downloaded here:\" "}
{"id": "732156", "revid": "226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732156", "title": "Paget's disease of the nipple", "text": ""}
{"id": "732159", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732159", "title": "Hanoverian horse", "text": "The Hanoverian or is a German breed or stud-book of warmblood sport horse. As with other German warmblood breeds, eligibility for registration depends on performance rather than ancestry.\nHistory.\nIn 1735, George II, the King of England and Elector of Hanover, founded the State Stud at Celle. He purchased stallions suitable for all-purpose work in agriculture and in harness, as well as for breeding cavalry mounts. The local mares were refined with Holsteiner, Thoroughbred and Cleveland Bay, Neapolitan, Andalusian, Prussian, and Mecklenburg stock. By the end of the 18th century, the Hanoverian had become a high-class coach horse.\nIn 1844, a law was passed that allowed only stallions approved by a commission to be used for the purpose of breeding. In 1867, breeders started a society aimed at producing a coach and military horse, with the first stud book being published in 1888. The Hanoverian became one of the most popular breeds in Europe for coach and army work.\nWhen the demand for Hanoverians declined following World War I, the aim for breeding became a horse that could be used for farm work, but still had the blood and gaits to be used as a riding and carriage horse. After World War II, there was a growing demand for sport horses, as well as general riding horses, and the breeding yet again was adapted. Thoroughbreds were used to refine the breed; occasionally an Anglo-Arabian or Trakehner stallion was used.\nCharacteristics.\nHanoverians are elegant, strong, and robust. They are bred to be willing and trainable, and have a strong back, powerful body, athletic movement, and strong limbs. Chestnut, bay, black, and gray are found the most often. Regulations prohibit horses with too much white, and buckskin, palomino and cremello horses from being registered. There is no height requirement, but Hanoverian horses are generally high.\nIn order to be incorporated into the studbook, stallions and mares must pass rigorous testing. The goal of this testing is to prevent horses with heritable defects from continuing to pass on their genes. As a result, horses with the Hanoverian brand often have excellent health. The Hanoverian verband, and other warmblood breeding societies, continue to promote research into the health of their horses.\nPoor fertility in Hanoverian stallions and mares is not very common. However, research on Hanoverian stallions has helped lead to the identification of new genes that affect stallion fertility.\nSome of Hanoverians have symptoms of osteochondrosis dissecans in the hock joint, and some in a fetlock joint.\nUse.\nHanoverians are consistently rated high against other sport horse breeds in dressage, show jumping and eventing.\nThe World Breeding Federation for Sport Horses (WBFSH) uses results from FEI-recognized competitions to rank individual horses and breed registries for each discipline. In 2008, the Hanoverian stallion Weltmeyer was the world's #3 sire of WBFSH dressage horses, behind #2 Donnerhall, who was sired by the Hanoverian Donnerwetter. As of 2008, the Hanoverian Society had been consistently ranked in the top five most successful studbooks in international show jumping competition as ranked by the WBFSH and FEI since 2001. In 2008, the WBFSH ranked the Hanoverian studbook third for eventing horses, behind the Irish Sport Horse and Selle Fran\u00e7ais.\nIn 2016, the Hanoverian studbook took top position in the FEI/WBFSH studbook rankings for dressage.\nThe 2023 studbook rankings placed the Hanoverian studbook third in dressage, eighth in show jumping, and seventh in eventing.\nIn 2008, four Hanoverian sires were ranked in the top 10 show hunters: All the Gold (2), Rio Grande (4), Escudo I (5) and Espri (8).\nBreed societies.\nThe first studbook\u2014official documentation of pedigrees, matings, and ensuing offspring\u2014for Hanoverians was founded in 1888 by the Royal Agricultural Society. The \"Hanoverian Warmblood studbook\" was kept by the Chamber of Agriculture from 1899 until 1922, when the Society of Hanoverian Warmblood Breeders was founded, privatizing ownership of the studbook. This society unified over 50 local breeders' clubs with a total of over 10,000 members. Today, this society is known simply as the \"Hannoveraner verband\", or Hanoverian Society. The \"verband\" maintains the studbooks, issues passports, and collects and publishes performance statistics, while educating members about and encouraging research into all aspects of breeding and keeping healthy Hanoverians.\nThe Association for the Promotion of Hanoverian horses in Equestrian Sport (\"Verein zur F\u00f6rderung des Reitsports auf Hannoverschen Pferden\") was founded in 1985 and operates under the \"verband\". Its goal is to unite sponsors, corporate or otherwise, and talented riders with the most gifted Hanoverian horses. In this way, the FRH removes the most common obstacle to a horse's success: expense. Horses united with their riders in this fashion bear the initials \"FRH\" as a suffix or prefix, e.g. Gigolo FRH, FRH Butts Abraxxas, Forsyth FRH.\nThe popularity of the Hanoverian has brought about a number of affiliated societies as Hanoverian horses began to reach the Americas, Australia and New Zealand in the 1970s. The American Hanoverian Society was founded in 1978. A single society first served Australia and New Zealand in 1981; the two nations have had separate societies since 1993. There are two Hanoverian breeding clubs in Canada, in addition to groups in the United Kingdom, Denmark, Finland, France, and Russia.\n\"Verband\" activities.\nThe \"verband\" is responsible for many events and facilities related to the Hanoverian horse, including selection procedures for breeding stock and the famous Elite Auctions in Verden. The \"verband\" also owns the Hanoverian Riding and Driving School which trains riders, instructors, and horses.\nAuctions.\nThe auctions in Verden were first held in 1949, and have been held at the Niedersachsenhalle venue since 1972. There are at least ten auctions per year, each featuring top-quality riding horses, promising foals, proven broodmares, or licensed stallions. The most famous of these sales are the Elite Riding Horse Auctions held in April and October each year. World Cup winners such as Aramis, Mr. T and Walk on Top were Verden Elite Auction horses. Horses are delivered to the venue four weeks prior to the auction for training, promotion, and thorough screening for radiographic irregularities and vices. Price toppers routinely sell for well over \u20ac100,000 (Euros). The record price of \u20ac900,000\u2014approximately equal to $1,125,000 at the time\u2014was set in 2008 for the purchase of Lemony's Nicket.\nMare and foal shows.\nThe many steps and careful evaluations of Hanoverian breeding stock are organized by the \"verband\" and district breeders' clubs (\"bezirkverband\"). The district clubs are primarily responsible for local mare and foal shows. Foals of that year are presented, usually at their dam's side, to a panel of licensed breed judges. Foals of acceptable quality are branded, their papers are signed, and they are entered into the foal registry. Judges also use this venue to recommend exceptional foals for stallion candidacy or auction participation. Mares return to the mare shows as three-year-olds to be evaluated for entry into the studbook; only such mares can have registered Hanoverian foals. The young mares are evaluated on their conformation and gaits to ensure that they are of sufficient quality. Another component of the mare shows is the field test, in which young mares are evaluated for their suitability for and age-appropriate competency in dressage and show jumping. The majority of young mares participate in the field test or station test for mares, as proof of performance is required for the mother of any stallion candidate, as well as for the State's Premium. The best mares are awarded the State's Premium (\"Staatspraemie\"), a monetary prize provided by the government of Lower Saxony aimed at keeping the finest mares in the local breeding population. Every other year, one of the seven district breeders' clubs hosts the Louis Wiegels show. The best three- and four-year-old mares from each district attend, and to win is a great honor. Alternating years with the Louis Wiegels Mare show, the \"verband\" hosts the Herwert von der Decken mare show in Verden.\nBreeding stock selection events.\nEach year, the seven regional clubs nominate a total of 700 two-year-old colts as stallion candidates, of which only 100 attend the actual licensing (\"koerung\") at Verden in October. A panel of \"verband\"-selected judges, experts in their fields, form the \"koerkommission\", which evaluates each young stallion for his suitability as a sire of future Hanoverians. Through a veterinary exam, the colts must be deemed free of osteochondrosis lesions, vices, and other heritable conditions. They are then assessed on pavement to ensure that they have sound, straight, true gaits, as well as straight, sound legs. On the second day, the colts are judged on the suitability of their gaits for dressage, and their competency in jumping. On the third day, about half of the young stallions will have earned their temporary breeding license, while the other half are typically castrated and go on to become excellent riding horses. What follows the announcement of licensed stallions is the Stallion Sale, an auction which featured Hotline in 2005, who sold for a staggering \u20ac800,000.\nThe Hanoverian Society also organizes the Station Tests for mares. These four-week-long tests are a more in-depth evaluation of a mare's suitability for riding; in addition to her talents for dressage or show jumping, the judges can form an understanding of her character and temperament, including how easy she is to train. These tests are held at the Hanoverian Riding and Driving School in Verden and at the Hessen State Stud in Dillenburg. After young stallions have earned their temporary license, they have until they are four years old to prove themselves serviceable riding horses. The most common track is to send the stallion to a Stallion Performance Test (\"Hengstleistungspr\u00fcfung\") at the test center in Adelheidsdorf. As an outpost of Celle State Stud, the test center, unlike the Riding and Driving School, is owned by the state. Management of the 11-month test for state-owned stallions and the 70-day test for privately owned stallions is shared between the government-owned State Stud and the privately owned Hanoverian Society."}
{"id": "732160", "revid": "477460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732160", "title": "Reiter's Syndrome", "text": ""}
{"id": "732162", "revid": "7291611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732162", "title": "Circular wing", "text": "A circular wing is a disc-shaped wing having the outer planform of a circle.\nIf the aircraft has no fuselage or tail the disc-shaped craft is sometimes described as a \"flying saucer\". If the entire disc rotates it is called a \"disc wing\".\nDisc-shaped aircraft development dates back to before World War II. A number of disc-shaped aircraft have been proposed over the years, and a few have been built.\nCircular wing aircraft.\nNemeth Umbrella Plane.\nIn 1934, at Miami University (of Ohio), an aircraft called the Nemeth Umbrella Plane (aka Roundwing) was tested. (\"Nemeth\" is sometimes spelled \"Nuneth\".) This aircraft had a parasol wing of circular form above a conventional fuselage and tail, and it was powered by propeller in a tractor configuration.\nSack AS.6.\nDuring World War II, a number of disc-shaped aircraft were proposed by aircraft designers in Germany. One of the few to make it further than the drawing board was the Sack AS-6, an experimental light plane with a round-winged planform that first flew in 1944. The aircraft proved unsuccessful, and was scrapped in early 1945.\nVought Flying Flapjack.\nDuring WWII, Charles H. Zimmerman led a team at Chance-Vought that created a series of designs that eventually resulted in the Vought Flying Flapjack, one of the first aircraft explicitly designed as a disc for aerodynamic reasons. The Flapjack had a large wing and very low wing loading, allowing it to take off easily from aircraft carriers. As with the earlier Vought V-173, the Flapjack's counter-rotating propellers were located at the ends of the wings to help counteract the drag-inducing vortices that would normally result from a wing of such a low aspect ratio. By the time the design was flying in the post-war era, jet engines had rendered the design obsolete and the US Navy lost interest.\nIn 1943, Boeing Aircraft built 3 scale model aircraft whose designs had saucer-shaped wings with a propeller in the front, and a rudder in the back. The cockpit was to be in front of the wings. There was no actual fuselage in the center. The aircraft model numbers were 390, 391, and 396. They were to be powered by a Pratt &amp; Whitney R-4360-3 Wasp Major radial engine and capable of reaching speeds of 414\u00a0mph. They were intended to be fighter planes, armed with 4 20mm cannons and underwing hardpoints that could carry bombs or external fuel tanks. Boeing submitted the proposals to the US Navy. The wing design had excellent short takeoff and landing (STOL) characteristics, that is preferred for fixed-wing aircraft carrier planes. The Navy rejected the Boeing designs in favor of the similar-shaped Chance-Vought V-173/XF5U-1 aircraft.\nCircular flying wings (flying saucers).\nAvrocar.\nAfter the war, the Avro Canada company developed a saucer-shaped aircraft. John Frost became interested in the Coand\u0103 effect to produce lift, eventually designing a disc-shape in which the thrust was directed downward around the entire disc by a flap ringing the aircraft, allowing it to take off and land vertically. Once in flight, the flap would be angled slightly, producing a small thrust while being directed to the rear. Little lift would be generated by conventional means; the engine thus would instead be used to build an \"artificial wing\" by directing the airflow around the craft. He offered a number of increasingly dramatic performance estimates, generally claiming Mach 4 performance at , at which point the USAF took over funding under \"Weapon System 606A\". The result was a 29-foot (8.9 m) diameter supersonic \"Project Y2\".\nTesting soon revealed that the entire concept was unworkable; the craft would be highly unstable at supersonic speed. Avro nevertheless continued work on the project as a subsonic design known as \"Project Silver Bug\". Silver Bug was of interest to the US Army, who was looking into solutions for battlefield transport and support, and they took over most of the project funding. The final outcome of Silver Bug was the Avrocar or \"VZ-9AV\", effectively (and unintentionally) a prototype hovercraft rather than an aircraft, which was made public in 1961.\nLenticular missiles.\nFrom the late 1950s the USA studied lenticular-shaped unmanned vehicles. These included the Lenticular Defense Missile (LDM) Pye Wacket and the nuclear bomb delivery Lenticular Reentry Vehicle.\nMoller M200G Volantor.\nThe M200G Volantor is a prototype flying saucer-style hovercraft, designed by aeronautics engineer Paul Moller. The M200G Volantor uses a system of eight computer-controlled ducted fans to hover up to above the ground. Volantor is a term coined by Moller meaning \"a vertical takeoff and landing aircraft\".\nDisc wing.\nA disc wing is a circular wing that spins. It is mostly used for flying disc toys."}
{"id": "732165", "revid": "37052726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732165", "title": "Non Aligned Movement", "text": ""}
{"id": "732167", "revid": "14176974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732167", "title": "Machine Intelligence Research Institute", "text": "The Machine Intelligence Research Institute (MIRI), formerly the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence (SIAI), is a non-profit research institute focused since 2005 on identifying and managing potential existential risks from artificial general intelligence. MIRI's work has focused on a friendly AI approach to system design and on predicting the rate of technology development.\nHistory.\nIn 2000, Eliezer Yudkowsky founded the Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence with funding from Brian and Sabine Atkins, with the purpose of accelerating the development of artificial intelligence (AI). However, Yudkowsky began to be concerned that AI systems developed in the future could become superintelligent and pose risks to humanity, and in 2005 the institute moved from Atlanta to Silicon Valley and began to focus on ways to identify and manage those risks, which were at the time largely ignored by scientists in the field.\nStarting in 2006, the Institute organized the Singularity Summit to discuss the future of AI including its risks, initially in cooperation with Stanford University and with funding from Peter Thiel. The \"San Francisco Chronicle\" described the first conference as a \"Bay Area coming-out party for the tech-inspired philosophy called transhumanism\". In 2011, its offices were four apartments in downtown Berkeley. In December 2012, the institute sold its name, web domain, and the Singularity Summit to Singularity University, and in the following month took the name \"Machine Intelligence Research Institute\".\nIn 2014 and 2015, public and scientific interest in the risks of AI grew, increasing donations to fund research at MIRI and similar organizations.\nIn 2019, Open Philanthropy recommended a general-support grant of approximately $2.1 million over two years to MIRI. In April 2020, Open Philanthropy supplemented this with a $7.7M grant over two years.\nIn 2021, Vitalik Buterin donated several million dollars' worth of Ethereum to MIRI.\nResearch and approach.\nMIRI's approach to identifying and managing the risks of AI, led by Yudkowsky, primarily addresses how to design friendly AI, covering both the initial design of AI systems and the creation of mechanisms to ensure that evolving AI systems remain friendly.\nMIRI researchers advocate early safety work as a precautionary measure. However, MIRI researchers have expressed skepticism about the views of singularity advocates like Ray Kurzweil that superintelligence is \"just around the corner\". MIRI has funded forecasting work through an initiative called AI Impacts, which studies historical instances of discontinuous technological change, and has developed new measures of the relative computational power of humans and computer hardware.\nMIRI aligns itself with the principles and objectives of the effective altruism movement."}
{"id": "732168", "revid": "30438843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732168", "title": "Tlaltizap\u00e1n", "text": "Tlaltizap\u00e1n de Zapata is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos.\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality, with which it shares a name. The toponym \"Tlaltizap\u00e1n\" comes from a Nahuatl name and means \"tlal-tli\" (land), \"tiza-tl\" (white powder), \"pan\" (\"on\" or \"over\"); \"on white land\" or \"feet on white land\". The city is situated on a white hill. De Zapata pays homage to the hero of the Liberation Army of the South during the Mexican Revolution.\nThe Municipality of Tlaltizap\u00e1n de Zapata borders the Municipalities of Emiliano Zapata, Morelos; Yautepec de Zaragoza; and Ciudad Ayala to the north; the Municipalities of Ayala and Tlaquiltenango to the south; Ayala to the east; and Tlaquiltenango, Jojutla, Zacatepec de Hidalgo, Puente de Ixtla, Xochitepec. and Emiliano Zapata to the west. The municipal seat is located at an altitude of 950 meters above sea level.\nThe municipality reported 52,110 inhabitants in the year 2015 census.\nIn 2023, Tlaltizap\u00e1n de Zapata was designated a Pueblo M\u00e1gico by the Mexican government, recognizing its cultural and historical importance.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic history.\nEarly settlers in Tlaltizap\u00e1n were Xochimilcas; they founded the towns of \"Tetela, Hueyapan, Ocuituco, Tepoztl\u00e1n\", and \"Totolapan\" where they mixed with even older settlers of \"Jumiltepec\" and \"Nepopolco\". During the Prehispanic era, these people were subjects of and paid tribute to the Aztecs of the Valley of Mexico.\nConquest and colonial era.\nDuring the colonial era, Tlaltizap\u00e1n, like most of the state of Morelos, became part of the \"Marquesado del Valle de Oaxaca\", of the conquistador Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s. During the Marquesado period, Tlaltizap\u00e1n was a horse farm established in 1549, managed by Pablo de Paz.\nThe Dominicans built the monastery of Tlaltizap\u00e1n around 1550 CE. \"Gerhaed\" dates the monastery to 1591, disagreeing with both the 1576 date on the fa\u00e7ade and a possible date of 1540. Perhaps the differences can be explained by considering the existence of two monasteries; the first related to the chapel of the Indians and the second to the cloister courtyard of the current monastery.\nThere are ruins of chapels of abandoned Indians, indicative of the congregation in the 17th century. There are indications that Indigenous health traditions were persecuted by the Church; we can point to the banks of the Yautepec River as an area of healers. Towards the east, there were important Indigenous settlements like \"San Pablo de Nexpa\" \nIndependence and 19th century.\nThe hero the Mexican War of Independence, Francisco Ayala, was captured at the \"Temilpa ranch\", located in this municipality. Ayala had become seriously ill with malaria, and he was captured and taken to Yautepec, where he was shot in 1812. The ranch has been in ruins since then.\nWhen the state of Morelos was created in 1869, Tlaltizap\u00e1n was elevated to the category of municipality.\nRevolution and 20th century.\nOn Monday, June 2, 1916, during the Mexican Revolution, General Emiliano Zapata established his headquarters in Tlaltizap\u00e1n in order to fight Carrancista troops. The barracks have long been torn down, but visitors can still see the former mill, turned into army headquarters. The fighting hit Tlaltizap\u00e1n hard; 60% of the population were killed or fled\u2014the population dropped from 8,000 residents in 1910 to 3,200 in 1921. Carrancista soldiers slaughtered 280 men, women, and children on June 2, 1916, and another 250 on August 13 of the same year. Similar massacres may have occurred in June and September 1916. When the Spanish flu epidemic broke out in 1918, Carrancista soldiers circled the town and would not allow the Mexican Red Cross enter.\nOn May 9, 1983, the State Congress changed the name of the municipality to Tlaltizap\u00e1n de Pacheco in honor of former Governor Carlos Pacheco (1876-1880).\n21st century.\nAlfredo Dominguez Mandujano of \"Juntos por Morelos\" (Together for Morelos coalition: PRD-PSD) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) on July 1, 2018.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of April 27, 2020; four cases were reported in Amacuzac. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On July 2, Tlatltizap\u00e1n reported 18 infections and three deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Tlaltizap\u00e1n reported 122 cases, 88 recuperations, and 31 deaths from the virus as of August 31. Two hundred eighteen cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nTourism and attractions.\nThere are several haciendas in Tlaltizap\u00e1n. \"San Miguel Treinta\" was built in 1732 por Jos\u00e9 Francisco de Ver\u00e1stegui. De Verastegui also owned \"Santa Rosa Treinta\"; only 23 hectares are left of these once-powerful haciendas. The church of San Miguel still functions and is open to the public, and there are large festivals held in the saint's honor. \"San Jos\u00e9 de Acamilpa\" was founded 1604 by the \"Colegio de Cristo\" and was once a major producer of sugarcane. In 1855 produced 2,400 barrels of schnapps. Today it is a resort hotel. Other haciendas are \"Ticum\u00e1n, San Francisco,\" and \"Xochimancas.\"\nSan Miguel Arcangel monastery.\nThe monastery of San Miguel Arcangel in Tlaltizapan was built by members of the Dominican Order about 1535. The church is rectangular with a side chapel located at the cross of the church. The ceiling is simple; supported by arches and tall columns. The side chapel is notable for its octagonal cupola. The main entrance to the west is very simple. The door is tall and narrow with a half-arc; there are discrete pilasters on the sides and a simple cornice above. Above that, there is a small, pink stone window. The front does not have any decoration except for the massive buttress on the southwest and the foundations of the tower on the northwest corner. The tower is simple and austere; above it, there is a square belfry with four open windows. The second level is smaller and eight-sided, while the third level is little more than a light tower, and the fourth level is smaller still. The access door to the monastery has two beautiful arches, making it a luxurious entrance to an austere building. Located on the north side of the church, the monastery has two floors with a central patio. The rectangular atrium is surrounded by several monuments to the Mexican Revolution.\nOther historical churches are \"San Jos\u00e9, la Virgen de Guadalupe, San Pedro,\" Santo Domingo de Guzm\u00e1n and Santa Rosa de Lima.\nLas Estacas.\nLas Estacas Natural Reserve and Spa belongs to the state ecological reserve \"Sierra de Montenegro-Las Estacas\". It has crystal-clear water that flows from a spring that produces 7,000 liters (247 cubic feet) / second, forming a natural diving pool that is 10,000 years old. The name is due to the fact that in the past they used to drive \"stakes\" on the river bank to control irrigation. 500 meters of the river, which forms a tributary of the Yautepec River, is inside the park.\nVisitors can swim or snorkel. Camping, cabins, and a hotel are available.\nIt is widely believed that a Tarzan movie was filmed at \"Las Estacas\", but the closest seems to be the 1948 production of \"Tarzan and the Mermaids\" starring Johnny Weissmuller in 1948, which was filmed in Acapulco and other locations in Mexico.\nCommunities.\nIn accordance with the statistical data of the INEGI, the municipality has 66 localities (human settlements, which are considered up to one house), of which 39 are composed of settlements of 1 to 49 inhabitants; 11 localities have 50 to 99 inhabitants; three settlements of 100 to 499 inhabitants; five localities of 500 to 999 inhabitants; four locations from 1,000 to 1,999 inhabitants; two locations of 3,000 to 4,000 inhabitants; one of 9,893 inhabitants (the municipal seat). and the largest town in the municipality is Santa Rosa Treinta with 16,474 inhabitants.\nThe Municipality of Tlaltizap\u00e1n has one city (the municipal seat of Tlaltizap\u00e1n), four urban localities (Santa Rosa Treinta, Ticum\u00e1n, Huatecalco, and Tlaltizap\u00e1n), with more than 2,500 inhabitants each; four semi-urban locations (Acamilpa, Bonifacio Garc\u00eda, Temimilcingo, and Pueblo Nuevo), which have a population range of 1,000 to 2,500 inhabitants, and 58 rural localities with fewer than 1,000 inhabitants.\nFestivals and dances.\nThere are eight brass bands in Tlaltizap\u00e1n.\nHandicrafts.\nCeramics and felt and porcelain dolls are made in Huatecalco. Acampilpa is known for its pottery and for leather goods in the \"El Mirador\" colony. In Palo Prieto families make baskets, ladles, and birdcages.\nFood.\nGreen mole of \"pip\u00edan\"; \"tamales of cenizas\"; red mole of turkey; \"cecina\" with cheese, cream and green sauce; \"barbacoa de cabrito\" (goat), \"pozole\" with pork or chicken, tamales of catfish (made in leaves of \"totomozcle\"), and \"clemole\" seasoned with wild plums or tamarind make up the local cuisine."}
{"id": "732171", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732171", "title": "Parana River", "text": ""}
{"id": "732173", "revid": "12626385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732173", "title": "Cellulitis", "text": "Cellulitis is usually a bacterial infection involving the inner layers of the skin. It specifically affects the dermis and subcutaneous fat. Signs and symptoms include an area of redness which increases in size over a few days. The borders of the area of redness are generally not sharp and the skin may be swollen. While the redness often turns white when pressure is applied, this is not always the case. The area of infection is usually painful. Lymphatic vessels may occasionally be involved, and the person may have a fever and feel tired.\nThe legs and face are the most common sites involved, although cellulitis can occur on any part of the body. The leg is typically affected following a break in the skin from abrasions, arthropod bites, or maceration between the toes. Other risk factors include obesity, leg swelling, and old age. For facial infections, a break in the skin beforehand is not usually the case. The bacteria most commonly involved are streptococci and \"Staphylococcus aureus\". In contrast to cellulitis, erysipelas is a bacterial infection involving the more superficial layers of the skin, present with an area of redness with well-defined edges, and more often is associated with a fever. The diagnosis is usually based on the presenting signs and symptoms, while a cell culture is rarely possible. Before making a diagnosis, more serious infections such as an underlying bone infection or necrotizing fasciitis should be ruled out.\nTreatment is typically with antibiotics taken by mouth, such as cephalexin, amoxicillin or cloxacillin. Those who are allergic to penicillin may be prescribed erythromycin or clindamycin instead. When methicillin-resistant \"S. aureus\" (MRSA) is a concern, doxycycline or trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole may, in addition, be recommended. There is concern related to the presence of pus or previous MRSA infections. Elevating the infected area may be useful, as may pain killers.\nPotential complications include abscess formation. Around 95% of people are better after 7 to 10 days of treatment. Those with diabetes, however, often have worse outcomes. Cellulitis occurred in about 21.2 million people in 2015. In the United States about 2 of every 1,000 people per year have a case affecting the lower leg. Cellulitis in 2015 resulted in about 16,900 deaths worldwide. In the United Kingdom, cellulitis was the reason for 1.6% of admissions to a hospital.\nSigns and symptoms.\nThe typical signs and symptoms of cellulitis are an area that is red, hot, and painful. The photos shown here are of mild to moderate cases and are not representative of the earlier stages of the condition.\nComplications.\nPotential complications may include abscess formation, fasciitis, and sepsis.\nCauses.\nCellulitis is usually, but not always, caused by bacteria that enter and infect the tissue through breaks in the skin. Group A \"Streptococcus\" and \"Staphylococcus\" are the most common causes of the infection and may be found on the skin as normal biota in healthy individuals.\nAbout 80% of cases of Ludwig's angina, or cellulitis of the submandibular space, are caused by dental infections. Mixed infections, due to both aerobes and anaerobes, are commonly associated with this type of cellulitis. Typically, this includes alpha-hemolytic streptococci, staphylococci, and bacteroides' groups.\nPredisposing conditions for cellulitis include an insect or spider bite, blistering, an animal bite, tattoos, pruritic (itchy) skin rash, recent surgery, athlete's foot, dry skin, eczema, injecting drugs (especially subcutaneous or intramuscular injection or where an attempted intravenous injection \"misses\" or blows the vein), pregnancy, diabetes, and obesity, which can affect circulation, as well as burns and boils, although debate exists as to whether minor foot lesions contribute. Occurrences of cellulitis may also be associated with the rare condition hidradenitis suppurativa or dissecting cellulitis.\nThe appearance of the skin assists in determining a diagnosis. Blood tests, a wound culture, or other tests may be carried out to help rule out a blood clot deep in the veins of the legs. Cellulitis in the lower leg is characterized by signs and symptoms similar to those of a deep vein thrombosis, such as warmth, pain, and swelling (inflammation).\nReddened skin or rash may signal a deeper, more serious infection of the inner layers of skin. Once below the skin, the bacteria can spread rapidly, entering the lymph nodes and the bloodstream and spreading throughout the body. This can result in influenza-like symptoms, with a high temperature and sweating or feeling very cold with shaking, as the affected person cannot get warm.\nIn rare cases, the infection can spread to the deep layer of tissue called the fascial lining. Necrotizing fasciitis, also called by the media \"flesh-eating bacteria\", is an example of a deep-layer infection; it is a medical emergency.\nRisk factors.\nThe elderly and those with a weakened immune system are especially vulnerable to contracting cellulitis. Diabetics are more susceptible to cellulitis than the general population because of impairment of the immune system; they are especially prone to cellulitis in the feet, because the disease causes impairment of blood circulation in the legs, leading to diabetic foot or foot ulcers. Neural degeneration in diabetes may cause these ulcers not to be painful, and so remain untreated and become infected. Poor control of blood glucose levels allows bacteria to grow more rapidly in the affected tissue, and, if the infection enters the bloodstream, also facilitates rapid progression. People who have had poliomyelitis are also prone because of circulatory problems, especially in the legs.\nImmunosuppressive drugs, and other illnesses or infections that weaken the immune system, also make infection more likely. Chickenpox and shingles often cause blisters that break open, providing a break in the skin through which bacteria can enter. Lymphedema, which causes swelling on the arms and/or legs, can also put an individual at risk.\nDiseases that affect blood circulation in the legs and feet, such as chronic venous insufficiency and varicose veins, are also risk factors for cellulitis.\nDiagnosis.\nCellulitis is most often a clinical diagnosis, readily identified in many people by history and physical examination alone, with rapidly spreading areas of cutaneous swelling, redness, and heat, occasionally associated with inflammation of regional lymph nodes. While classically distinguished as a separate entity from erysipelas by spreading more deeply to involve the subcutaneous tissues, many clinicians may classify erysipelas as cellulitis. Both are often treated similarly, but cellulitis associated with furuncles, carbuncles, or abscesses is usually caused by \"S. aureus\", which may affect treatment decisions, especially antibiotic selection. Skin aspiration of nonpurulent cellulitis, usually caused by streptococcal organisms, is rarely helpful for diagnosis, and blood cultures are positive in fewer than 5% of all cases.\nIt is important to evaluate for co-existent abscess, as this finding usually requires surgical drainage as opposed to antibiotic therapy alone. Physicians' clinical assessment for abscess may be limited, especially in cases with extensive overlying induration, but use of bedside ultrasonography performed by an experienced practitioner readily discriminates between abscess and cellulitis and may change management in up to 56% of cases. Use of ultrasound for abscess identification may also be indicated in cases of antibiotic failure. Cellulitis has a characteristic \"cobblestoned\" appearance indicative of subcutaneous edema without a defined hypoechoic, heterogeneous fluid collection that would indicate abscess.\nDifferential diagnosis.\nOther conditions that may mimic cellulitis include deep vein thrombosis, which can be diagnosed with a compression leg ultrasound, and stasis dermatitis, which is inflammation of the skin from poor blood flow. Signs of a more severe infection such as necrotizing fasciitis or gas gangrene that would require prompt surgical intervention include purple bullae, skin sloughing, subcutaneous edema, and systemic toxicity. Misdiagnosis can occur in up to 30% of people with suspected lower-extremity cellulitis, leading to 50,000 to 130,000 unnecessary hospitalizations and $195 to $515 million in avoidable healthcare spending annually in the United States. Evaluation by dermatologists for cases of suspected cellulitis has been shown to reduce misdiagnosis rates and improve patient outcomes.\nAssociated musculoskeletal findings are sometimes reported. When it occurs with acne conglobata, hidradenitis suppurativa, and pilonidal cysts, the syndrome is referred to as the follicular occlusion triad or tetrad.\nLyme disease can be misdiagnosed as cellulitis. The characteristic bullseye rash does not always appear in Lyme disease (the rash may not have a central or ring-like clearing, or not appear at all). Factors supportive of Lyme include recent outdoor activities where Lyme is common and rash at an unusual site for cellulitis, such as armpit, groin, or behind the knee. Lyme can also result in long-term neurologic complications. The standard treatment for cellulitis, cephalexin, is not useful in Lyme disease. When it is unclear which one is present, the IDSA recommends treatment with cefuroxime axetil or amoxicillin/clavulanic acid, as these are effective against both infections.\nPrevention.\nIn those who have previously had cellulitis, the use of antibiotics may help prevent future episodes. This is recommended by Clinical Resource Efficiency Support Team (CREST) for those who have had more than two episodes. A 2017 meta-analysis found a benefit of preventative antibiotics for recurrent cellulitis in the lower limbs, but the preventative effects appear to diminish after stopping antibiotic therapy.\nTreatment.\nAntibiotics are usually prescribed, with the agent selected based on suspected organism and presence or absence of purulence, although the best treatment choice is unclear. If an abscess is also present, surgical drainage is usually indicated, with antibiotics often prescribed for co-existent cellulitis, especially if extensive. Pain relief is also often prescribed, but excessive pain should always be investigated, as it is a symptom of necrotizing fasciitis. Elevation of the affected area is often recommended.\nSteroids may speed recovery in those on antibiotics.\nAntibiotics.\nAntibiotics choices depend on regional availability, but a penicillinase-resistant semisynthetic penicillin or a first-generation cephalosporin is currently recommended for cellulitis without abscess. A course of antibiotics is not effective in between 6 and 37% of cases.\nEpidemiology.\nCellulitis in 2015 resulted in about 16,900 deaths worldwide, up from 12,600 in 2005.\nCellulitis is a common global health burden, with more than 650,000 admissions per year in the United States alone. In the United States, an estimated 14.5 million cases annually of cellulitis account for $3.7 billion in ambulatory care costs alone. The majority of cases of cellulitis are nonculturable and therefore the causative bacteria are unknown. In the 15% of cellulitis cases in which organisms are identified, most are due to \u03b2-hemolytic Streptococcus and Staphylococcus aureus.\nOther animals.\nHorses may acquire cellulitis, usually secondarily to a wound (which can be extremely small and superficial) or to a deep-tissue infection, such as an abscess or infected bone, tendon sheath or joint. Cellulitis from a superficial wound usually creates less lameness (grade 1\u20132 of 5) than that caused by septic arthritis (grade 4\u20135). The horse exhibits inflammatory edema, which is hot, painful swelling. This swelling differs from stocking up in that the horse does not display symmetrical swelling in two or four legs, but in only one leg. This swelling begins near the source of infection, but eventually continues down the leg. In some cases, the swelling also travels distally. Treatment includes cleaning the wound and caring for it properly, the administration of NSAIDs, such as phenylbutazone, cold hosing, applying a sweat wrap or a poultice, and mild exercise."}
{"id": "732174", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732174", "title": "Camper Van Beethoven Is Dead. Long Live Camper Van Beethoven", "text": "Camper Van Beethoven Is Dead. Long Live Camper Van Beethoven is a 2000 rarities compilation album by Camper Van Beethoven, released on Pitch-A-Tent Records. The album stands as the first product of the members of CVB beginning to collaborate again. The songs here are taken from a collection of old live recordings from the 1980s retooled and remixed, combined with new songs, unreleased demo takes and more."}
{"id": "732175", "revid": "1298966803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732175", "title": "In-Betweener", "text": "The In-Betweener is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Jim Starlin, the character first appeared in \"Warlock\" #9 (1975).\nPublication history.\nThe character first appeared in \"Warlock\" (1972) #9, where he viewed Thanos as a figure disrupting the natural order. This was followed by \"Doctor Strange\" (1974) #28. He then appeared in \"Warlock\" #10 (December 1975) and was created by Jim Starlin.\nFictional character biography.\nThe In-Betweener is a cosmic entity who represents duality and serves fellow conceptual beings Master Order and Lord Chaos, although his loyalty is usually to himself rather than to them. Throughout his appearances, he battles Adam Warlock and Doctor Strange before being imprisoned as punishment for rebelling against his masters.\nHe is later freed by Thanos, who secretly desires the Soul Gem in his possession. Thanos then steals the gem and abandons the In-Betweener to face the wrath of Master Order and Lord Chaos, who discover he has escaped his prison.\nThe In-Betweener later appeared as a pawn of the villain Scorpio, a member of the criminal organization Zodiac. Scorpio, however, was stopped by the superhero team the Avengers and the In-Betweener was subsequently freed.\nThe In-Betweener also appeared in an alternate dimension of Earth-957.\nIn \"Time Runs Out\", the Beyonders are revealed to have killed Order, Chaos, the In-Betweener, and other abstract entities across the multiverse. However, the In-Betweener was later revealed to be the mastermind behind Libra's attempt at destroying Earth, and more specifically, Starbrand.\nAfter the universe is restored, Order and Chaos kill the Living Tribunal and force the In-Betweener to fuse them into a new cosmic being named Logos who can replace him. However, they are later separated by Black Panther's astral form.\nPowers and abilities.\nAs the physical embodiment of the cosmic balance between Order and Chaos, the In-Betweener can manipulate cosmic energy to alter reality to achieve nearly any effect or ability within his influence as the synthesis of duality. He is, however, under the absolute control of Master Order and Lord Chaos as his creators. The In-Betweener's other major (and unique) ability is to analyze a target and then direct energy towards it in a \"polar opposite\" form, which is instantly fatal.\nAlternatively, if he cannot personally synthesize the \"opposite energy\" necessary to eliminate an opponent, he can directly summon that enemy's opposite being, and eliminate them that way; using the power granted to him in his station as a cosmic force, he once even summoned and forced Death itself to destroy the Elders of the Universe, even though it had, at an earlier point, refused to ever let them die again as a punishment. The In-Betweener finds that he is unable to use either of his special abilities on Galactus, however, and he believes that this is because he is Galactus's metaphysical counterpart and opposite."}
{"id": "732177", "revid": "24043204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732177", "title": "Arecae catechu", "text": ""}
{"id": "732178", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732178", "title": "Dr Strange", "text": ""}
{"id": "732180", "revid": "44555953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732180", "title": "Akershus Fortress", "text": "Akershus Fortress (, ) or Akershus Castle ( ) is a medieval castle in the Norwegian capital Oslo that was built to protect and provide a royal residence for the city. It is located on the banks of the Oslofjord. Since the Middle Ages the fortress has been the namesake and centre of the main fief and later main county of Akershus, which was originally one of Norway's four main regions and which included most of Eastern Norway. The fortress itself was located within the Akershus main county until 1919, and also within the smaller Akershus sub-county until 1842.\nThe castle has also been used as a military base, a prison and is currently the temporary office of the prime minister of Norway.\nConstruction.\nIt is not known exactly when the construction of the castle started but it is believed that it took place around the late 1290s, by King Haakon V, replacing T\u00f8nsberg as one of the two most important Norwegian castles of the period (the other being B\u00e5hus). It was constructed in response to the Norwegian nobleman, Earl Alv Erlingsson of Sarpsborg's earlier attack on Oslo that occurred in 1287. In the aftermath of the attack, it became clear that the city's existing defences were not effective and therefore, a stronger defensive centre was needed.\nThe castle is mentioned in written sources for the first time in 1300 in a letter from King Haakon to a church in Oslo. However, the letter does not mention how far the construction of the castle had progressed by then.\nThe fortress has successfully survived all sieges, primarily by Swedish forces, including those by forces led by Charles XII in 1716.\nHistory and military use.\nThe Middle Ages.\nThe fortress was first used in battle in 1308, when it was besieged by the Swedish duke Erik Magnusson. The siege was eventually broken by a local Norwegian army in a battle. (This battle forms a major part of the plot of Sigrid Undset's historical novel \"In the Wilderness\", the third volume of her tetralogy \"The Master of Hestviken\".)\nRenaissance and Denmark\u2013Norway.\nThe immediate proximity of the sea was a key feature, for naval power was a vital military force as the majority of Norwegian commerce in that period was by sea. The fortress was strategically important for the capital, and therefore, Norway as well. Whoever controlled Akershus fortress ruled Norway.\nIn 1449\u20131450 the castle was besieged again, this time by the Swedish king Karl Knutsson Bonde, but he had to lift the siege after a while. The castle was not besieged again until 1502 when Scottish soldiers in the service of the Danish\u2013Norwegian king besieged the castle in order to regain it from the hands of the Norwegian nobleman Knut Alvsson.\nAkershus was besieged yet again in 1523, this time by Swedish soldiers, but Oslo's inhabitants, at the command of Hans Mule, burned down their houses in an attempt to drive them out and the Swedes retreated after a short period. King Christian II besieged the castle from 1531 to 1532 but the siege was lifted by forces from Denmark and L\u00fcbeck. After this siege the castle was improved and strengthened.\nIn 1567, during the Northern Seven Years' War, the castle was besieged once more by Swedish forces, but the Danish\u2013Norwegian king's lord lieutenant, Christen Munk, responded by burning down the city in order to deprive the attackers themselves of the means of receiving supplies, and eventually the Swedes\nWorld War II.\nThe fortress has never successfully been besieged by a foreign enemy. However it surrendered without combat to Nazi Germany in 1940 when the Norwegian government evacuated the capital in the face of the unprovoked German assault on Denmark and Norway (see Operation Weser\u00fcbung).\nDuring World War II, people were executed here by the German occupiers, including members of the Pelle group. The fortress was liberated on 11 May 1945, when it was handed over to Terje Rollem on behalf of the Norwegian resistance movement. After the war, eight Norwegian traitors who had been tried for war crimes and sentenced to death were also executed at the fortress. Among those executed were Vidkun Quisling and Siegfried Fehmer.\nRoyal residence.\nDuring the Middle Ages.\nAfter construction of the castle was finished around 1300, Haakon V gradually started to use the castle as a residential palace, favoring the keep over the Oslo Kongsg\u00e5rd estate despite the fact that the castle likely was unsuited as a residence. The castle becoming a royal residence also played a significant role in the process where the capital of Norway was moved from Bergen to Oslo. Several significant figures from the Norwegian middle ages, including Haakon V, Queen Euphemia, Ingeborg Eriksdottir and Queen Margaret, all resided at the castle, which functioned as the official Norwegian royal residence for several decades. The last Norwegian king prior to the establishment of the Kalmar Union, Olaf II, was born at the castle in 1370.\nAnne of Denmark and James VI of Scotland.\nIn September 1589, Anne of Denmark tried to sail to Scotland when she was betrothed to King James VI, but after difficulties with her ships and weather, she made her way to Akershus with the Scottish Earl Marischal. After they married, when they were at Elsinore (Kronborg), a servant of Axel Gyldenstierne, captain of Akershus, was rewarded for bringing letters to the Scottish king.\nRestoration and palace.\nFollowing the great fire of 1624, King Christian IV made the decision to relocate and rebuild the entire city of Oslo. The king ordered the new city to be located closer to Akershus Fortress, renaming the city \"Christiania\". The fortress was subsequently modernized and remodeled, with the new appearance being that of a renaissance castle with Italian inspired bastions. The castle primarily functioned as a palace until the turn of the 19th century, with new towers, halls, chambers and gates being added over time.\nWhen the king was absent, the castle functioned as the seat of the Steward of Norway.\nPrison.\nAkershus has also been a prison, with a section of it known as \"The Slavery\" () because the prisoners could be rented out for work in the city. It has housed many rebels and criminals through Norwegian history. Particularly well-known people to have been imprisoned there include author Gjest Baardsen (1791\u20131849), and the similarly idealized thief Ole H\u00f8iland. Also, many early Norwegian socialists (supporters of Marcus Thrane, 1817\u20131890) also spent time in the cells of Akershus. The prison was also a plot element in the film \"Fante-Anne\" (1920).\nKautokeino rebellion prisoners.\nFollowing the 1852 Laestadian S\u00e1mi revolt in Guovdageaidnu, all men except the two leaders Aslak H\u00e6tta and Mons Somby (who were beheaded in Alta) ended up in Akershus Fortress \u2013 the women were imprisoned in Trondheim. Many of the rebels died after a few years in captivity. Among the survivors was Lars H\u00e6tta (18 years at the time of imprisonment), who during his stay was allowed time and means to write the first translation of the Bible into North S\u00e1mi.\nCurrent use.\nAlthough still a military area, the Akershus Fortress is open to the public between 6:00 and 21:00 daily. As well as the castle, the Norwegian Armed Forces Museum and Norway's Resistance Museum can also be visited. The Norwegian Ministry of Defence and the country's Defence Staff Norway share a joint modern headquarters in the eastern part of the fortress. His Majesty the King's Guard is responsible for guarding the fortress, with stationary guard posts during open hours and mobile patrols at night. One of the stationary guard posts at the entrance is a popular photography spot for tourists visiting the fortress.\nRoyal Mausoleum.\nThe castle's Royal Mausoleum is the final resting place of a number of Norwegian royal figures. This includes King Sigurd I, King Haakon V, Queen Euphemia, King Haakon VII, Queen Maud, King Olav V and Crown Princess M\u00e4rtha. Since restoration of the main building, the castle has frequently been used as the venue for official events and dinners for dignitaries and foreign heads of state.\nOffice of the Prime Minister.\nAfter the 22 July attacks in 2011, the Office of the Norwegian prime minister has been located close to the fortress in a building that originally belonged to the Norwegian Ministry of Defence.\nImitation.\nWalt Disney World in Florida, United States, replicates a portion of the fortress at the Norway Pavilion at its Epcot theme park. In a further reference to Akershus' royal history, the Epcot replication also houses a Disney Princess character restaurant called Akershus Royal Banquet Hall, which also serves some Norwegian dishes.\nCommanders of Akershus Fortress.\nThe year is that in which they first took command."}
{"id": "732181", "revid": "845597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732181", "title": "Lionel Lukin", "text": "Lionel Lukin (18 May 1742 \u2013 16 February 1834) was a British carriage builder and inventor, noted for the invention of the 'unimmergible' lifeboat.\nPrivate and professional life.\nLukin was born in Great Dunmow, Essex, on 18 May 1742. He married twice. He had a son and daughter with his first wife, a Miss Walker of Bishops Stortford. His second wife was Heather Clissold of Reading.\nHe was apprenticed by a local coachbuilder and later established a business in Long Acre, London. He joined the Worshipful Company of Coachmakers and Coach Harness Makers and eventually became the company's Master.\nHe had a house in Chelsea and retired to Hythe, Kent, where he took an active interest in matters of the church. He died on 16 February 1834 and is buried at St Leonard's church. His gravestone is inscribed: \"This Lionel Lukin was the first to build a lifeboat, and the original inventor of that principle of safety by which many lives and much property have been preserved from shipwreck, and he obtained for it the King's patent in the year 1785\".\nLifeboats.\nLukin was granted a patent on 2 November 1785 for an 'unimmergible' boat. The design had increased buoyancy because of sealed air spaces along the side of the boat and in the bow and stern. This enabled it to stay afloat if swamped with water, or when carrying people rescued from the water. A heavy iron keel gave stability. These principles were used in most lifeboats built until the 1960s.\nRather than use the patent to make a profit, he published the design so that everyone could benefit from his ideas. The Royal Humane Society commended him for his \"very praiseworthy liberality\".\n\"Experiment\".\nLukin tried to interest the Royal Navy in his ideas without success. Instead he had a prototype converted from a yawl sailing boat which he purchased in 1784. It was about long and renamed \"Experiment\". Lukin tested it on the River Thames and then loaned it to a pilot at Ramsgate for testing. It was reported to have crossed the English Channel several times in rough weather but was believed impounded on suspicion of being used for smuggling.\n\"Witch\".\nLukin's second prototype lifeboat was named \"Witch\", a similar yawl to the \"Experiment\". It was tested at Margate and found to sail well and impossible to sink.\nBamburgh Castle.\nA charity in Northumberland asked Lukin to design a lifeboat for them. It was based on the design for a local coble rowing boat and kept at from 1786.\n\"Frances Ann\".\nThe Suffolk Humane Society approached Lukin to design another lifeboat. This was long and wide. It was used at from 1807. It was the first lifeboat placed in service that was intended to be used under sail (although it also carried 12 oars) and became to forerunner of the type that was used at many lifeboat stations on the East Coast for more than 100 years.\nOther inventions.\nThe lifeboat was not the only invention to come from Lukin's fertile brain. Other ideas included a stove that could be used on a ship in rough seas, a rain gauge, an adjustable invalid's bed that was adopted in London hospitals, and a raft that could be used to rescue people who had fallen through ice."}
{"id": "732185", "revid": "2273576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732185", "title": "Piper betle", "text": ""}
{"id": "732188", "revid": "24198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732188", "title": "Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome", "text": "Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome is a rare complication of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) involving liver capsule inflammation leading to the formation of adhesions presenting with the clinical syndrome of right upper quadrant (RUQ) pain.\nHistory.\nFitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome, or perihepatitis, was first described by Carlos Stajano in 1920, who found adhesions between the liver capsule and the abdominal wall in patients suffering from gonococcal infections.\nThe condition is named after the two physicians, Thomas Fitz-Hugh Jr. and Arthur Hale Curtis, who further studied the syndrome in the 1930s. They noted the classic \"violin string adhesions\" in female patients presenting with RUQ abdominal pain. Both Fitz-Hugh and Curtis regularly found these adhesions during laparotomy in patients with the clinical syndrome of RUQ with concern for gallbladder pathology; however, no abdominal pathology was found in these patients but residual gonococcal tubal changes were often noted.\nPathophysiology.\nFitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome occurs almost exclusively in women, though it can be seen in males rarely. It is complication of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) caused by \"Chlamydia trachomatis\" (Chlamydia) or \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\" (Gonorrhea) though other bacteria such as \"Bacteroides\", \"Gardnerella\", \"E. coli\" and \"Streptococcus\" have also been found to cause Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome on occasion. Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome was originally studied solely as a complication of PID secondary to Gonorrhea, but studies have now shown that Chlamydia is the most common causal pathogen. Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome occurs in 5-15% of patients with PID.\nThe pathogens of PID spread either spontaneous secondary to an ascending infection through the fallopian tubes, lymphatically, or hematogenous. Inflammation then causes scar tissue to form on Glisson's capsule, a thin layer of connective tissue surrounding the liver. This inflammation and scaring then leads to the characteristic RUQ pain.\nPresentation.\nThe major symptom and signs include an acute onset of RUQ abdominal pain aggravated by breathing, coughing or laughing, which may also present with referred pain to the right shoulder. There is usually also tenderness on palpation of the right upper abdomen and tenderness to percussion of the lower ribs which protect the liver. Patients may also report fevers, malaise, back pain, pelvic pain, dyspareunia, vaginal discharge, and dysuria.\nPatients are most often women of childbearing age. There are a number of risk factors for the development of Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome, these include having multiple sexual partners, history of sexually transmitted disease, history of PID, use of an intrauterine device, use of a vaginal douche, and being under the age of 25.\nDifferential diagnosis.\nThe signs and symptoms of Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome greatly overlap with numerous other abdominal and pelvic pathologies. It is important for practitioners to perform a thorough history and physical as the differential for the symptoms of Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome include cholecystitis, appendicitis, hepatitis, pregnancy, pyelonephritis, renal colic, pleuritic causes such as pneumonia, pulmonary embolism, and pleurisy, among many others.\nDiagnosis and workup.\nThe workup for Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome at presentation begins with ruling out pregnancy or an ectopic pregnancy with a pregnancy test, this can also help guide antibiotic therapy if indicated to prevent teratogens.\nRadiographic studies are often indicated to rule out other thoracic, abdominal, and pelvic pathologies. Chest and abdominal radiographs may be indicated to rule out pulmonary pathologies and to assess for free air under the diaphragm in the case of intestinal perforation. Abdominal and pelvic ultrasounds are critical to rule out common causes of RUQ pain such as cholelithiasis, cholecystitis, and abdominal/pelvic abscesses. Computed tomography (CT) scan should be obtained in the case that the clinical suspicion for appendicitis is high. In cases of Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome, the CT scan may show increased blood flow to the liver capsule secondary to the inflammation.\nLiver function tests (LFTs) are often obtained is these patients as part of the initial workup, since Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome does not involve direct damage to the liver, LFTs will be normal or only slightly elevated.\nAfter ruling out other concerning pathologies if suspicion is high, the workup for Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome involves testing for sexually transmitted diseases (Chlamydia and Gonorrhea) with nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs) from a cervical swab sample. If indicated, urethral, rectal, and/or pharyngeal swabs may be obtained as well.\nThe gold standard for diagnosis of Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome, though rarely required, is laparoscopy with direct visualization of the characteristic \"violin string adhesions\" along with liver capsule scarring and inflammation. Antibody testing of 57-kDa chlamydial heat-shock protein can be done in cases where all other tests have been non-diagnostic and the clinical suspicion remains high.\nTreatment.\nThe mainstay of treatment of Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome is antibiotics targeted at the causal organism. The CDC recommends a low threshold for treatment given the high risk of infertility and ectopic pregnancies with untreated disease. Antibiotic therapy should cover the most common pathogens including Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, other gram-negatives, and anaerobes. Current guidelines recommend ceftriaxone and azithromycin as Chlamydia and Gonorrhea constitute the vast majority of cases, treatment for complicated PID involves the combination of ceftriaxone, doxycycline, and metronidazole. In cases of refractory pain, laparoscopy may be considered for lysis of adhesions.\nPrognosis.\nWith treatment, the prognosis of Fitz-Hugh\u2013Curtis syndrome is excellent with vast majority of patients seeing complete resolution of symptoms. Complications of the disease include infertility, small bowel obstruction due to adhesions, chronic pelvic pain, recurrent salpingitis, and ectopic pregnancy."}
{"id": "732194", "revid": "35585582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732194", "title": "China cymbal", "text": "In western music, a China cymbal (or Chinese cymbal) is a distinct type of cymbal designed to produce a bright, crisp, and explosive tone that has brought it the nickname \"trash cymbal\". The name \"China cymbal\" comes from its shape, which is similar to that of the Chinese Bo. Such cymbals are most frequently mounted upside down on cymbal stands, allowing for them to be more easily struck and for a better sound.\nChina-type cymbals are common in various kinds of rock music, particularly heavy metal and thrash metal. They are also frequently used in jazz fusion, Latin music, and Brazilian music, especially in arrangements with elaborate drum solos. In Latin and some other music styles, China cymbals are usually played in conjunction with other percussion instruments instead of a drum kit, such as timbales, octobans, or the surdo. China cymbals may also be used for conventional jazz, often played with mallets or brushes to achieve a softer sound resembling that of a \"dark crash\" cymbal.\nOccasionally these cymbals are featured in orchestral works; examples using a suspended cymbal include Olivier Messiaen's \"Turangal\u00eela-Symphonie\" and Edgard Var\u00e8se's \"Ionisation\".\nAnatomy.\nChina type cymbals typically have a bell that is cylindrical or shaped like a truncated cone with its base the top of the bell, an outer rim that is turned up in the reverse direction to the main bow of the cymbal, little or no taper (change in thickness) from bell to rim, and an area including the inside of the bell that is unpolished. However, many china type cymbals have only several or in some cases none of these distinguishing characteristics. The distinguishing feature of a china type cymbal is the one that is hardest to define: its sound. China cymbals are those whose sounds are derived from the Chinese, rather than the Turkish, tradition of cymbal making.\nCymbals are classified into two or three tonal families: Turkish; Chinese; and some would say European, although others would include the European family of tones as a development of the Turkish sounds. The best Turkish (and European) cymbals have a rich, swelling tone that some describe as \"sweet\". To western ears, the best china types have an abrasive, cutting sound that is described by western drummers as \"trashy\".\nThe families do to some extent overlap. Notably, pang and swish cymbals have some characteristics of china types, and some characteristics of traditional Turkish cymbals. On the other hand, the Sabian rocktagon cymbals, and some Ufip models, are considered china types while having none of the physical characteristics of the normal china type, while the Paiste crystal crash is considered a European cymbal despite its squarish bell.\nCymbal making in China is claimed to predate the development of the art anywhere else in the world. The most universally acclaimed cymbal alloy, bell bronze, appears to have been independently developed in China. Today in China a wide range of cymbals are manufactured of both traditional and imported patterns. Traditional Chinese types with distinctive names and sounds include chung, jing, and water cymbals, as well as many other types. In Western music these are all referred to as china type cymbals.\nChina type cymbals are available in a wide range of sizes from down to , most types singly but some in pairs. Those of or smaller are normally referred to in Western music as china splash cymbals. When used in a drum kit, they are regarded as effects cymbals and are used to give colour and variety.\nIn a drum kit, china-type cymbals can be mounted either with the bell facing upward (similar to other cymbals) as well as with the bell facing downward. When mounted bell-down, the upturned rim becomes a downturned rim, allowing a normal stick technique to be used for both ride and crash patterns. This assumes that the bell is formed in the typical direction; some china type cymbals (e.g., the Paiste 2002 Novo china) have an inverted bell and an upturned rim, and so must be mounted bell up to achieve this downwards rim orientation.\nTypes.\nTraditional.\nConical (termed \"square\") bell rough finished on the inside; reversed edge.\nNovo.\nConventional rounded bell, reversed edge. The bell may be or may not be reversed.\nPang and swish.\nThe swish and pang are specific sounds within the enormous range of china cymbals, developed as exotic ride cymbals but also used as crashes at higher volumes.\nChina splash.\nA \"China splash\" cymbal is typically or smaller.\nSabian refers to both their nova Chinese models as mini Chinese.\nRocktagon.\nThe \"Rocktagon\", a Sabian exclusive, is an octagonal cymbal with a sound midway between a crash and a china. The cymbal is manufactured as round and cut to shape after all-over lathing. Available sizes include , , and initially , as well as and Rocktagon splash.\nSticking techniques.\nChina cymbals are played in various ways, depending on the genre of music.\nFor example, in modern metal music, players generally tend to play using the shoulder of the stick rather than the tip for a more \"trashy\" sound. In other genres, such as jazz (which can use less hammered cymbals for a lighter and less distorted effect), the drummer often plays with the tip for more of a \"sizzle\" sound."}
{"id": "732195", "revid": "297448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732195", "title": "Capcom vs. SNK 2 EO", "text": ""}
{"id": "732200", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732200", "title": "Selfishness", "text": "Selfishness is being concerned excessively or exclusively for oneself or one's own advantage, pleasure, or welfare, regardless of others.\nSelfishness is the opposite of \"altruism\" or selflessness, and has also been contrasted (as by C. S. Lewis) with \"self-centeredness\".\nDivergent views.\nThe implications of selfishness have inspired divergent views within religious, philosophical, psychological, economic, and evolutionary contexts. Some early examples of \"selfist\" thinking are the egoistic philosophies of Yangism in ancient China and of Cyrenaic hedonism in ancient Greece. Yangists followed the teachings of Yang Zhu and might have been influenced by Taoism. Cyrenaics, founded by Aristippus of Cyrene, were skeptics and materialists (but perhaps nominally Greek pagans). Thomas Hobbes, who could also be viewed as \"selfist\", was a materialist but also advocated loyalty to a strong government and state church. The views of Friedrich Nietzsche and Max Stirner provide a more proximate link to the modern selfists.\nClassical.\nAristotle joined a perceived majority of his countrymen in condemning those who sought only to profit themselves; but he approved the man of reason who sought to gain for himself the greatest share of that which deserved social praise.\nSeneca proposed a cultivation of the self within a wider community\u2014a care for the self which he opposed to mere selfishness in a theme that would later be taken up by Foucault.\nMedieval/Renaissance.\nSelfishness was viewed in the Western Christian tradition as a central vice\u2014as standing at the roots of the seven deadly sins in the form of pride.\nFrancis Bacon carried forward this tradition when he characterized \u201cWisdom for a man's self...[a]s the wisdom of rats\u201d.\nModern.\nWith the emergence of a commercial society, Bernard Mandeville proposed the paradox that social and economic advance depended on private vices\u2014on what he called the sordidness of selfishness.\nAdam Smith with the concept of the invisible hand saw the economic system as usefully channelling selfish self-interest to wider ends. John Locke, along with Adam Smith, was a key figure in early classical liberalism: an ideology that champions notions of individualism and negative liberty. These core themes inevitably relate to the concept of selfishness. Locke, for example, sought for people to exercise \"self-government\"\u2014the idea that an individual should make his/her own decisions. This inherent right would allow individuals to pursue self-interests, rather than suffer the burdens of any altruistic obligations. Thus, unlike political ideologies such as socialism, Locke and other classical liberals believe that selfishness is engrained in human nature. Locke arguably opened the door for later thinkers like Ayn Rand to argue for selfishness as a social virtue and the root of social progress. Ayn Rand held that selfishness is a virtue.\nRoman Catholic philosopher Jacques Maritain opposed the latter view by way of the Aristotelian argument that framing the fundamental question of politics as a choice between altruism and selfishness is a basic and harmful mistake of modern states. Rather, cooperation ought to be the norm: human beings are by nature social animals, and so individual persons can only find their full good in and through pursuing the good of the community.\nEcology.\nIn ecology, species sometimes would cooperate each other, which could be considered as a mutualistic behavior. But species choose to have mutualistic behaviors, because the mutualistic behaviors could provide them more benefits to fit in the environment, which ultimately is a selfishness behavior. For example, animal cooperation exists in wild dogs community. They hunt together for large mammals easier. During the hunting, each individuals would have specific roles, like chase the prey toward a cliff and make other individuals easy to hunt.\nIn Charles Darwin's theory of biological evolution, species understand the intensity of competition in nature, which requires a degree of selfishness in order to gain limited resources and survive to reproduce.\nPsychology.\nLack of empathy has been seen as one of the roots of selfishness, extending as far as the cold manipulation of the psychopath.\nThe contrast between self-affirmation and selfishness has become a conflictual arena in which the respective claims of individual/community are often played out between parents and children or men and women, for example.\nPsychoanalysts favor the development of a genuine sense of self, and may even speak of a healthy selfishness, as opposed to the self-occlusion of what Anna Freud called \"emotional surrender\".\nCriminology.\nSelf-centeredness was marked as a key feature in a phenomenological theory of criminality named \"The Criminal Spin\" model. Accordingly, in most criminal behaviors there is a heightened state of self-centeredness, that differently manifests itself in different situations and in different forms of criminality."}
{"id": "732201", "revid": "29463730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732201", "title": "Minato-ku, Nagoya", "text": " is one of the 16 wards of the city of Nagoya in Aichi Prefecture, Japan. As of 1 October 2019, the ward had an estimated population of 143,913 and a population density of 3,153 persons per km\u00b2. The total area was 45.64\u00a0km\u00b2. It is geographically the largest of the wards of Nagoya in terms of land area.\nGeography.\nMinato Ward is the southern portion of the city of Nagoya, in the coastal flatlands and river estuaries along the shore of Ise Bay. Due to land reclamation much of the coastline is no longer natural.\nHistory.\nAll of what is now Minato Ward was part of the holdings of Owari Domain during the Edo period. After the Meiji Restoration, the area was transferred to the new Nagoya Prefecture, which later became part of Aichi Prefecture. Nagoya was divided into wards on April 1, 1908. In 1922, Ousu village in Aichi District was annexed by the city of Nagoya becoming part of Minami Ward. The Nagoya Port Drawbridge was completed in 1926. On October 1, 1937 the city of Nagoya was re-divided into ten wards, with the original Minami Ward divided into the new Minami Ward, plus Atsuta Ward, Nakagawa Ward, Minato Ward, and part of Showa Ward. In 1955, the town of Nanyo from Ama District was annexed by Minato Ward. In 1959, the Isewan Typhoon caused severe damage to the area.\nEconomy.\nThe economy of Minato Ward is dominated by Nagoya Port, one of the busiest in Japan.\nEducation.\nInternational schools:\nThe ward previously hosted Col\u00e9gio \u00c1ureo, another Brazilian school.\nTransportation.\nRailroads.\n "}
{"id": "732203", "revid": "16543516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732203", "title": "Nueromuscular junction", "text": ""}
{"id": "732204", "revid": "40071619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732204", "title": "Soopafly", "text": "Priest Joseph Brooks (born December 8, 1972), known professionally as Soopafly, is an American hip hop producer and rapper from Long Beach, California. He is a member of the DPGC.\nEarly life.\nThe oldest of three children, Brooks grew up in Long Beach. He was given a keyboard by his father after being inspired by the piano players he saw in church.\nEarly career.\nDuring his teenage years, Brooks met rappers Snoop Dogg and Dr. Dre. Proving himself with his keyboard skills, Soopafly was assigned his first piece of work for Death Row Records on the soundtrack \"Murder Was The Case\". He played keyboards for Dr. Dre and Ice Cube on the track \"Natural Born Killaz\" and for Jodeci on the track \"Come Up To My Room\", as well as his first production credit with \"Who Got Some Gangsta Shit\" featuring Snoop Dogg and Tha Dogg Pound. In 1995, he produced \"Sooo Much Style\" for Tha Dogg Pound on their debut album \"Dogg Food\". He also played the keyboards on eight other songs throughout. Then in 1996, he was featured on the soundtrack to the movie \"A Thin Line Between Love and Hate\" on the song \"I Don't Hang.\" A remix would later follow.\nSoopafly was further introduced to mainstream listeners on Snoop Dogg's second studio album \"Tha Doggfather\". He produced the songs \"Freestyle Conversation\" and \"You Thought\", appearing alongside veteran rapper Too Short. Since then, he has been featured primarily on albums by local artists such as Snoop Dogg, Daz Dillinger, Kurupt, Warren G, RBX, Bad Azz and Tha Eastsidaz. To date, he has released three solo albums.\nWesturn Union.\nIn July 2006, the rap group called Westurn Union was formed. It features Soopafly, Damani and Bad Lucc. They made their first appearance on Snoop Dogg's album \"Tha Blue Carpet Treatment\" and released a street single titled \"I Don't Think So\", produced by Rick Rock. In April 2008, a mixtape was released titled \"House Shoe Musik, Vol. 1\" and was hosted by DJ Crazy Toones. After inking a deal with Koch Records and Doggystyle Records, the official debut album was released on September 2, 2008. Prior to the release, the group and the labels were approached by the company Western Union, threatening legal action if the name was not changed. Though there is a difference between Westurn and Western, the labels did not want to spend money dealing with a lawsuit, the name of the group was changed to Dubb Union.\nDiscography.\nStudio albums"}
{"id": "732210", "revid": "46700751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732210", "title": "Tlaquiltenango", "text": "Tlaquiltenango is a city in the Mexican state of Morelos. It is south of Mexico city and southeast of Cuernavaca, the state capital via Mexican Federal Highway 95D.\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality, with which it shares a name. The toponym \"Tlaquiltenango \"comes from a Nahuatl name and means \"place of whitewashed walls\". \nThe municipality reported 33,844 inhabitants in the year 2015 census.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic history.\nThere are two pre-Hispanic archaeological sites in Tlaquiltenango: \"Chimalacatlan\" and \"Huaxtla\". Chamalacatlan was built on the top of the hill of \"El Venado\"; it had 33 terraces and an equal number of piles of cut stone. There is also a small cave that was used for ceremonies. From the top of the hill, you can see Lake Tequesquitengo, Xochicalco, and parts of the state of Guerrero. The site is almost unique among Mesoamerican ruins in that the walls and platform were constructed of megaliths rather than the smaller rocks usually found in such structures. A small ceremonial ballcourt is also uncharacteristic of the Olmecs. The ruins were described by Fernando de Alva Ixtlixochitl in the early 17th century, although the modern discovery by Father Lorenzo Castro in the late 19th century was more significant. Castro reported his find to Bishop Francisco Plancarte y Navarrete, who speculated Chimalacatlan was none other than the mythological Tamoanchan, the cradle of Mesoamerican civilization.\nHuaxtla was built in what is the center of the community by that name today, at the top of a horseshoe-shaped hill. The ruins are similar to those of Chimalacatlan. It is believed that the inhabitants of these sites were from Tepexpan, who migrated south in search of better food and a better climate.\nConquest and colonialism.\nTlaquiltenango was included in the towns belonging to the marquisate of the Valley of Oaxtepec, awarded to the conquistador Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s. Cortes established a hacienda for the breeding of fine horses that would be destined for his army; for its surveillance, he ordered the construction of a circular stone tower with a height of close to .\nThe convent-fortress \"Santo Domingo de Guzm\u00e1n\" was initiated by the order of the Franciscans and finished by the Dominicans in the year 1540, one the oldest of the American continent. The convent is not very well-maintained, and there are cracks in the walls, and interior frescos are in poor condition. The clock was installed in December, 1898. In 1909, Mauricio de la Arena and Father Agapito Mateo Menes discovered a prehispanic codex in one corner; this is at the National Museum of Anthropology today.\nIndependence period.\nTlaquiltenango became a city of the State of Mexico in 1825 under the 1824 Constitution of Mexico. It included not only present-day Tlaquiltenango, but also the municipalities of Jojutla and Zacatepec, and stretched southeast to the Cuautla River. It became a municipality of Morelos by decree of governor Carlos Pacheco on September 25, 1884.\nThe 2017 earthquake did considerable damage in Tlaquitenango. Two children and two women were killed, while a woman from \"Valle de V\u00e1zquez\" was killed in Jojutla. The earthquake left a large crack in the earth that split two houses apart and destroyed 183 others and severely damaged 365 other homes in Colonia Celino Manzanares next to the Yautepec River. The 16th-century church was severely damaged, as was the 17th-century bridge in Colonia Manzares, 60 stone fences collapsed, and the municipal hall was damaged. The Secreatary of Health reported that 396 homes were destroyed and 510 were damaged.\nJorge Maldonado Ortiz of \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" (Morena Together we will make history coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) on July 1, 2018. Jos\u00e9 Almanza Alcaine, a former alderman and the 2018 candidate of Movimiento Ciudadano for municipal president, was gunned down on January 27, 2019. His two companions were also shot, and one died.\nIn response to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, Tlaquiltenango blocked the entrances to the community. The town reports two confirmed cases and one death as of April 27, 2020. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On July 2, Tlaquiltenango reported eleven infections and one death from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Tlaqiltenango reported 75 cases, 51 recuperations, and 22 deaths from the virus as of August 31. One hundred twenty/one cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nCommunities.\nThere are 29 communities in the municipality, which has a population of 29,637, including 292 people who identify as Indigenous. 16% of the 7,641 homes have a dirt floor, 89% have running water, 95% have electricity, 90% have television, and 11% have computers. The average education level is 7 years. Women have a fertility rate of 2.58 children. 12.61% of the population come from outside the state of Morelos. 67.7% are Roman Catholic, and 49.7% of the adults are economically active.\n\"Tlaquiltenango\" is the municipal seat. It has a population of 17,606 and is located at an altitude of above sea level. It is from Cuernavaca and 133.3\u00a0km from Mexico City.\n\"Alfredo V. Bonfil (Chacampalco)\" has a population of 2,188 and is located at an altitude of . It is from Tlaquiltenango.\n\"Valle de V\u00e1zquez (Los Hornos)\" has a population of 929 and is located at above sea level. It is from Tlaquiltenango.\nHuautla has a population of 913 and is located at an altitude of . It is from Tlaquiltenango. There is a prehispanic archaeological site in the community.\n\"Lorenzo V\u00e1zquez (Santa Cruz)\" has a population of 744 and is located at an altitude of . It is from Tlaquiltenango.\n\"Colonia 3 de Mayo (El Tepiolol)\" has a population of 699 and is located at an altitude of . It is from Tlaquiltenango.\n\"Quilamula\" has a population of 614 and is located at an altitude of . It is from Tlaquiltenango.\n\"La Mezquitera (El Astillero)\" has a population of 529 and is located at an altitude of . The 16th-century mining hacienda \"San Jacinto Ixtoluca\" houses a small hotel. It is from Tlaquiltenango.\n\"Chimalacatlan\" has a population of 364 people and is located at an altitude of above sea level. It has one preschool, one elementary school (grades 1\u20136), and one middle school (grades 7\u20139). Chimalacatlan is best known for its prehispanic archaeological site of the same name. It is from Tlaquiltenango.\nCulture.\nPoints of Interest.\nThe 16th-century church and monastery of Santo Domingo, the haciendas of \"Las B\u00f3vedas\" and \"Los Hornos\", and the concrete tower in El Rollo waterpark are the main historical constructions.\nThere are two waterparks in the municipality. \"El Rollo\" is located in Gabriel Tepepa and is one of the best waterparks in Latin America. It has 40 pools and 18 water slides, including one with a height. \"Paraiso Aventura Las Huertas\" is a natural waterpark with a spring, camping area, cabins, picnic area, and pools.\nThe \"Museo Comunitario Rub\u00e9n Jaramillo\" (Ruben Jaramillo Community Museum) in Tlaquiltenango is a small museum where paintings of revolutionary characters are exhibited, as well as books from the era of the Mexican Revolution, as well as pieces and pre-Hispanic tools. Rub\u00e9n Jaramillo (1900-1962) was a native of Tlaquiltenango and a peasant and labor leader during the 1940s and 1950s who, along with his family, was assassinated by the Mexican Army in 1962.\nChurch and monastery of Santo Domingo.\nConstruction of the church and former monastery of Santo Domingo was begun by the Franciscans between 1535 and 1540, and it was completed by the Dominicans. It is considered one of the most beautiful 16th-century monasteries in Morelos.\nThe church is very large and rectangular. The main entrance is on the west side, and there is a side entrance on the south that is very similar to that of the Cuernavaca Cathedral. The nave and presbytery are separated by a triumphal arch supported by large, circular The columns. The western entrance to the church is simple and austere; above the access arch there is a stone triangle with a small window. There is a clock that was added in 1898 above the window.\nThe base of the bell tower is connected to the main fa\u00e7ade of the church. It is proportionately tall and consists of two ornamented sections for bells that contrast with the general austerity of the church itself.\nThere are large pink, stone buttresses on the south side of the church and a carved, Franciscan-style cross above the main entrance. The interior of the church is simple in the Dominican style. The monastery cloister is high with a small central patio; the cells for the monks are simple. The atrium is huge; the \"capillas pozas\" for the instruction of unbaptized Indigenous and the two large entrances are still standing.\nFiestas, dances, and traditions.\nCandlemas Day is celebrated on February 2 in Tlaquiltenango. There is a fair, \"jaripeo\" (bulls), and Chinelo and Tecuanes dances. In the latter, dancers wear old clothes, a mask, and a hat while they carry a dissected animal.\nTlayehualco celebrates the appearance of the Our Lady of Guadalupe on December 12.\nCuisine.\nWhite pork pozole, chito, goat and pork barbecue, fish in mixiote, in tamales and in clemole seasoned with wild plum and tamarind are typical foods in the area.\nGeography.\nLocation and area.\nTlaquiltenango is geographically located between parallels at an altitude of above sea level.\nTo the north are the municipalities of Tlaltizap\u00e1n, Ayala and Tepalcingo; to the south are the States of Guerrero and Puebla; to the west are the municipalities of Zacatepec, Jojutla, and Puente de Ixtla; while Tepalcingo is to the east.\nTlaquiltenango has a surface area of which represents 11.73% of the total of the State of Morelos.\nClimate.\nThe wet season in Tlaquiltenango (late May to late October) is overcast, the dry season (late October to late May) is partly cloudy, and it is hot year round. Over the course of the year, the temperature typically varies from . The hot season lasts for two months, from March 21 to May 23, with an average daily high temperature above The cool season lasts for seven months, from June 25 to February 1, with an average daily high temperature below . Average annual rainfall is .\nFebruary 24, is the clearest day of the year, and September 14, is the cloudiest day of the year. The windier part of the year lasts for five months, from December to May, with average wind speeds of more than . The wind is mostly from the west in March, from the south from April through June, and from the east from July through February.\nRelief and water resources.\nDominant heights in the municipality of Tlaquiltenango are the Santa Mar\u00eda hill, the Guajolote hill, the Huautla hill, , the Palo Verde hill, the black ground of the Ci\u00e9nega, and the Lim\u00f3n. Along the boundaries of the State of Puebla and Municipality of Tepalcingo, are Tetillas, Cerro Picacho del Burial, Temazcales, and Cueva (Cave) de San Mart\u00edn. Hilly areas cover 44% of Tlaquiltenango, mostly in the center and south. 38% of the land is semi-flat, mostly in the center and south. Plains cover 18% of the total surface, mostly in the northwest.\nWater resources in Tlaquiltenango include the Amacuzac River, which flows from west to south; the Cuautla River, which flows from north to south joining the Amacuzac River west of Nexpa, and the Yautepec River. This last flows northwest, joining the Apatlaco River in Jojutla. There are also smaller, intermittent channels that descend from the mountains during the rainy season. In addition, there are springs in El Rollo, Nexpa, Los Elotes, Valle de V\u00e1zquez, and La Huertas. Finally, there are 25 wells\u201421 for drinking water and four used for irrigation.\nFlora and fauna.\nFlora consists mainly of low deciduous forests in a warm climate, ceiba, and \"bougainvillea\". Wild animals include white-tailed deer, boar of collar, raccoon, badger, skunk, armadillo, hare, common rabbit, coyote, wildcat, weasel, cacomixtle, tlacuache (a member of the raccoon family), and bats, flagged bird, chachalaca, magpie copetona, vulture, aura (buzzard), crow, owl, and songbirds and ornamental birds.\nSierra de Huautla.\nEstablished in 2006, the \"Sierra de Huautla Biosphere Reserve\" (REBIOSH) covers in the Balsas River Basin of the municipalities of Tlaquiltenango, Amacuzac, Tepalcingo, Jojutla, and Puente de Ixtla. Its rough topology varies from above sea level in the Balsas Basin and constitutes a rich reservoir of endemic species to Mexico. There is a broad range of ecosystem, including low deciduous forest, gallery vegetation, and pine and oak forests. 939 species of plants, 44 species of butterflies, 71 species of mammals, 208 species of birds, 53 species of reptiles, 18 species of amphibians, and 14 species of fish have been noted. Among the species of animals are jaguars, short-horned Baronia butterfly, beaded lizard, military macaw, rufous-backed robin, Balsas screech owl, Pileated flycatcher, mountain lion, ocelot, margay, bobcat, and jaguarundi.\nNatural resources and land tenure.\nRivers and land are the most important natural resources in Tlaquiltenango. Sugarcane, rice, onions, sorghum, tomatoes, corn, and beans are the most important crops. Cattle, pigs, goats, sheep, horses, and poultry are raised.\nThe municipality has an approximate area of . are for agricultural use, are for livestock, and are for forests. Land tenure can be divided into of ejidal property and private property."}
{"id": "732212", "revid": "196446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732212", "title": "Tlayacapan", "text": "Tlayacapan () is the name of a town and a municipality located in the northeast part of Morelos state in central Mexico. It is located 60\u00a0km east from the state capital of Cuernavaca and about 1.5 hours south of Mexico City. It is a rural area, whose way of life has not changed much over the 20th century, with 90% of its population still partially or fully dependent on agriculture. The town has old mansions, houses with red tile roofs and streets paved with stones. Many ravines crisscross the area and are crossed by numerous stone bridges.\nThe main landmark is the former monastery of San Juan Bautista, which towers over all the other structures. It was built beginning the 1530s, along with 26 chapels scattered around the original town as part of the \u201cspiritual conquest\u201d of the area. Today, this monastery is part of the Monasteries on the slopes of Popocat\u00e9petl, which was made a World Heritage Site in 1994. Culturally, the town is famous for two things: being the origin of the Chinelos dance and the home of the Banda Tlayacapan band, the most important culturally in the state and nationally recognized.\nTlayacapan was also a popular filming location for many Mexican and American films such as \"La Valentina\", starring Mar\u00eda F\u00e9lix and Eulalio Gonz\u00e1lez, and \"Two Mules for Sister Sara\", starring Shirley MacLaine and Clint Eastwood. American rock band The Killers, filmed the music video of their hit song When You Were Young, in 2006.\nLandmarks.\nThe monastery.\nTowering over everything else in the town, is the former monastery of San Juan Baustista (John the Baptist). This monastery is part of the series of monasteries near the Popocatepetl volcano which was declared a World Heritage Site in 1994. Today only the church portion retains its original function and serves as the parish church for the municipality. The patron saint of the town is John the Baptist, whose feast day is celebrated on 24 June.\nThe monastery complex was constructed by the Augustinians between 1534 and 1574, along with a number of chapels scattered throughout the town. It is fronted by an atrium which is larger than in any other monastery complex in the state. The facade of the church has small images of suns and moons. Its complex is a mixture of a number of architectural styles including Roman, Medieval, Plateresque, Gothic and Moorish. The church is one of the largest in Morelos. Despite its importance, the building lacks altarpieces and decorative elements in its architecture. The number 12 is found in all of its corners, 12 foundations, 12 doors, 12 main rooms, and others. The total comes to 144, the number of walls of the \u201cperfect city\u201d described in the Apocalypse. The main nave of the church measures 14 meters wide, 28 meters tall and 56 meters long, and match those of the Santi Quattro Coronati basilica in Rome. One of the main attractions of the monastery museum are the frescos in the entrance hall and meditation hall. The paintings in the entrance hall were done for evangelization purposes. The monastery's church remains with its original function. The rest, such as courtyards, cloister, chapels, dining hall, prayer rooms, kitchen, gardens, and monks\u2019 cells have disappeared or have been converted to other uses.\nThe cloister area and part of the open chapel have been converted into a site museum. This museum contains pre-Hispanic artifacts, Catholic religious objects, religious paintings from the 17th century and more. One item which stands out is a painting of \u201cNuestra Se\u00f1ora de la Luz\u201d an oil work of the Virgin Mary pregnant. It is claimed that from whatever angle the work is viewed, the Virgin appears to be looking directly at the onlooker. Two other important pieces are an anonymous paintings from the 16th century with Flemish influence presenting Saint Augustine and pictorial fragments from an altarpiece from 1737. The museum also contains a number of mummified remains on display. These were found under the floor of the main nave of the monastery church in 1982, when restoration work was being performed. These remains are of several children and one adolescent, each found in its own wooden coffin and in good condition. They were identified as upper-class Spanish due to their dress. The belief at that time was to be buried in the church as close to the altar as possible in order to reach heaven sooner. Today they can be viewed in the museum in the room which used to be the dispensary. For this reason and others, photos inside the museum area are strictly prohibited.\nThe museum area underwent more restoration work in 1997 which was funded by the INAH, the \"Instituto de Cultura de Morelos\", and the American Express Foundation. Much of this work involved the cleaning and restoration of the murals in the cloister area. Some of the best preserved works are in the \"Sala Profundis\" or meditation room where there are depictions of the Four Evangelists, Saints Peter and Paul, the Virgin Mary and the Crucifixion.\nThe chapels.\nAssociated with the monastery is a series of 26 chapels, which were located in places were pre-Hispanic rituals had been performed as part of the \u201cspiritual conquest\u201d of the area. Some of these chapels have been abandoned and are in ruins. Eighteen remain in use and are being gradually restored. These chapels are divided into three groups, \"Capillas de Cabecera\" (main chapels), \"Capillas de Calpulli\" (family chapels), and \"Capillas de Relaci\u00f3n\". While some are simple, even humble structures, several of the chapels are surprisingly elaborated with decorative facades, towers, espada\u00f1as and decorative gateways, some dating from colonial times. Each of the chapels has its own feast day and each neighborhood has its own chapel.\nIt has 21 chapels associated with it, classified into three groups: capillas de cabecera capillas de calpulli and capillas de relac\u00edon. The most important of these are the capillas de cabecera or roughly \u201chead chapels\u201d which include El Rosario, Santa Ana, Se\u00f1or de la Exaltaci\u00f3n and Se\u00f1or Santiago. These four chapels mark the four pre-Hispanic neighborhood temples or teocallis in each of the cardinal directions, in the same relative location vis-\u00e0-vis the main teocalli, where the monastery is now. Santa Ana is found in the north, La Exaltaci\u00f3n in the south, Santiago in the east and El Rosario in the west.\nThe chapel of the \"Se\u00f1ora del Rosario\" (Our Lady of the Rosary) is one that marks the town's traditional western boundary and lends its name to the surrounding neighborhood. It has an east\u2013west orientation and is paired with the chapel of \"Santiago\" (St. James) on the east side of town. It is adorned with stucco filigree, with seven niches in the body and three in the bell areas. It used to be said that when the bells of this chapel sounded, hunger would go away. Festival of the Se\u00f1ora del Rosaio is 7 October, with toritos de luces (small bull shaped frames with fireworks), festival and wind bands.\nThe chapel of \"Santa Ana\" (St. Anne) is located in the north of the town. Its facade is very sober and contains a medallion of the saint, which was placed there in 1973. Inside, the saint is represented along the Virgin Mary and the infant Jesus. This is the only chapel which does not have a canon vault but rather a gothic style one. Each year, pilgrims to Chalma leave from and return to this chapel. The neighborhood around it, called Barrio Norte or Barrio Santa Ana was the traditional exit to Mexico City. The chapel of Santa Ana is the scene of the commemoration of the Virgen de los Dolores (Virgin of the Sorrows) on the sixth Friday of Lent and the Procession of the Holy Burial (Santo Entierro) during Holy Week.\nThe Santiago Chapel is found in the Santiago neighborhood, which used to be called Texcalpa, or the \u201cwitch\u201d (male) neighborhood. Here are found many of the town's potters making everyday items such as pots for mole. The interior of this chapel is more decorated than most others with multicolored winged angels and saints. There is a three-gate opening into the atrium. The original atrium cross was decorated with flowers but this was stolen some time ago, as well as a number of other objects from the chapel property. The original doors remain, decorated with a mixture of symbols representing stars, suns and people. The squares with depictions of the sun and moon are considered to be particularly important. Each bell tower is decorated with Talavera tiles as well as stone spheres, which contain certification as to their perfection. Feast day is 25 July and celebrated with pre-Hispanic dance.\nThe \"Capilla de la Exaltaci\u00f3n\", also called Capillas de La Cruz, is located in the south. It contains an image of a Black Christ said to work miracles and is the object of local pilgrimage. The day of the Se\u00f1or de la Exaltaci\u00f3n is the first Friday of Lent, with events from Thursday evening to the following Sunday, such as pre-Hispanic dances and fireworks.\nThe capillas de relaci\u00f3n, or chapels related to a specific ancient deity converted into a saint, consist of Nuestra Se\u00f1ora del Tr\u00e1nsito, San Lucas, San Pedro and San Jer\u00f3nimo. The day of Nuestra Se\u00f1ora del Tr\u00e0nsito is the fourth Friday of Lent, with activities beginning on Wednesday and extending to Sunday. This consists of dances called \"jaripeos\", fireworks and processions as the Virgin makes her way to Tepoztl\u00e1n. One of the town's many legends involves the Virgen del Transito figure of the Virgin Mary, which was originally from Tepoztlan. This figure was burned and one was sought who could repair it in Tlayacapan. It is said that this figure \u201cfell in love\u201d with the figure of Saint Martin and wished to stay, so it became too heavy to lift. Today, the image has its own chapel in the far southwest of the community, but the figure itself remains in the chapel of San Martin.\nThe capillas de calpulli cover other types of sites in the four pre-Hispanic neighborhoods. They include San Jer\u00f3nimo, Santa Marta, Santa Cruz de Altica, San Diego, La Magdalena, San Lorenzo, La Tlazcalchica, San Nicol\u00e1s, La Concepc\u00f3n, San Miguel, La Asunci\u00f3n, San Mart\u00edn, La Natividad and Los Reyes. Those chapels on the outskirts, such as San Nicol\u00e1s, San Pedro, San Lucas, Las Animas and El Transito, mark traditional exits from the pre-Hispanic village. The smallest chapels, also called \"ermitas\" (hermitages) mark topographic sites or other devotional areas. The festival of the Chapel of Santa Cruz of Altica is on 3 May, as well as the chapel of Tlazcalchica. The Capilla de la Natividad contains the Museo del Alfarero or Potters\u2019 Museum.\nLa Cerer\u00eda.\nThe \"Cerer\u00eda\" Museum and Cultural Center (Wax or candle factory) is housed in a building which covers an entire city block and dates back to the 16th century. Its original function was the Encomendero Espa\u00f1ol or the headquarters for the local encomendero system. In the 17th century, it became one of the first waxworks in the Americas. This waxworks was noted in the region for making beautiful candles, and became a place to stock up on these for those traveling to and from Mexico City. The building was enlarged over time showing a number of different architectural styles. It contains a large \"alijbe\" or water storage tank in the main courtyard. There are also gargoyles. During the Mexican Revolution, the building served as a barracks for Emiliano Zapata\u2019s troops.\nThe building was repaired and converted into its present function in the late 20th century. The restoration of the La Cerer\u00eda was a common cause for the community, who were aided by researchers, scholars and other volunteers from outside. The rooms have been conditioned to display aspects of the municipality\u2019s history and traditions, such as its pre-Hispanic past, its musicians, its pottery tradition, its numerous 16th-century chapels and the Chinelos. There are also two rooms dedicated to temporary exhibits. Workshops offered vary from crafts to personal development to languages such as English and Nahuatl to painting to chess as well as local traditions. The building has been used to film a number of movies because of its architecture.\nFormer Hacienda of San Nicol\u00e1s.\nThe former Hacienda of San Nicol\u00e1s is located in the Pantitl\u00e1n neighborhood, but it is in ruins. It is said that it originally belonged to Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s who bequeathed it to a grandson named Pedro in the 16th century. The original owners supported the work of the local Augustinians and when then property first became abandoned, these brothers took it over. In 1809, the government confiscated it and it has remained government property since.\nHistory.\nThe origin of the name is from Nahuatl and means \u201cover the point or nose of the earth\u201d but it can also be translated at \u201cthe limits of the earth.\u201d\nPrehispanic Period.\nThe first culture in the area was the Olmec, who are known only by archeological remains. Some of the archeological work done here was by Francisco Plancarte y Navarete, who was also the second bishop of Cuernavaca in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He found a large number of Olmec clay figures here and other areas nearby.\nLater in the pre-Hispanic period, the area became dominated by the Xochimilcas, who remained dominant until the arrival of the Spanish. The town of Tlayacapan dates back at least to 1400 C.E. when chronicles describe it as an important commercial center. The area was an important trade route between Tenochtitlan and points south. It has an important ceremonial center with altars dedicated to Tonantzin and other deities. This center was in the center of the town, where the monastery is now. The tecpan, or governor's palace was located where the municipal palace is now. The old market area retains its original function to this day. The pre-Hispanic town was ordered into four neighborhood aligned with the cardinal directions, called calpullis. These are marked by the four largest chapels in the town.\nConquest &amp; Colonial Period.\nIn 1520, while Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s was still trying to conquer Tenochtitlan, the Spanish sent an expedition south of the valley into this area. In 1521, the Spanish fought the natives of Tlayacapan on the hill called \"Ziualopapalozink\" (Spanish: El Cerro del Sombrero). The Spanish left the area and headed for Oaxtepec, Yautepec and then to Cuernavaca and back to the Valley of Mexico. The lords of Tlayacapan sent many warriors to Tenochtitlan to help defend the Aztec Empire. Tlayacapan was not completely subdued by Cort\u00e9s militarily until 1539. The \u201cspiritual conquest\u201d began with the building of the San Juan Bautista monastery and its associated chapels in the 1530s by the Augustinians. A total of 26 chapels would be built through the town over older significant pre-Hispanic sites. However, in the early colonial period, the indigenous would hide native deities such as Yacatecutli, the god of commerce, inside hollow figures of saints and march with them in procession.\n19th Century.\nThe indigenous lost most of their property rights and most of the land became haciendas, such as the Hacienda of \"San Carlos Borromeo\" and the \"Hacienda of San Nicol\u00e1s\". Most would not have property rights again until 1874. However, during the rule of Porfirio D\u00edaz in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many indigenous claims would be thwarted in favor of the haciendas. Total restoration of rights came with the end of the Mexican Revolution.\n20th Century.\nDuring the Mexican Revolution, the Liberation Army of the South was based here for a time. Emiliano Zapata left from here to Chinameca, where he was assassinated.\nFrom the colonial period to recent times, the area has been relatively isolated, keeping many of its old traditions, including economy intact. The highway connecting Mexico City to Cuautla was built through here in the latter 20th century, bringing traffic and some tourism. In 1994, the San Juan Bautista monastery was named as part of a World Heritage site officially named \u201cEarliest 16th century monasteries on the slopes of Popocat\u00e9petl\u201d.\n21st Century.\nA severe thunderstorm in August 2010, part of a system that brought widespread flooding to several states, overflowed ravines. These floods dumped debris and mud over most of the town's streets and flooded the atrium and interior of the Capilla del Se\u00f1or de Exhaltaci\u00f3n, one of the town's most important. Volunteers have since worked to clean and restore the building.\nFive people were killed and 17 of 34 temples, including the Convent of St. John the Baptist, were damaged in the September 19, 2017 Puebla earthquake. 80% of the municipal palace was damaged.\n\"Erasmo Mendoza Pedroza\" of Juntos Haremos Historia (Together we will make history coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) on July 1, 2018.\nAs of May 7, 2020, the state of Morelos reported 688 confirmed cases and 87 deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico; two cases were reported in Tlayacapan. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. The state office of DIF sent food and water to vulnerable groups of people in eight municipalities including Tlayacapan on May 26. On July 2, Tlayacapan reported three infections and one death from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Tlayacapan reported 81 cases, 57 recuperations, and 19 deaths from the virus as of August 31. One hundred six cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nCulture.\nCarnival and the Chinelos.\nCarnival and the dance of the Chinelos are intertwined in the municipality. Each year since the colonial period, Tlayacapan has had a Carnival just before Lent. The dance originated here as part of Carnival. The name Chinelo comes from the Nahuatl word zineloquie, which means \u201cdisguised\u201d. During colonial times Spanish overlords were often cruel and oppressive to the mestizo and indigenous populations. During Carnival, masks were permitted and the dancers gradually took on an appearance designed to make fun of the Spanish. The gown mimics the nightgowns of Spanish colonial women, with white cotton gloves also serving to imitate these women. The ornate hat encrusted with fake jewels and large feathers mimics those worn by both sexes. The mask not only served to hide identity, but also they are made with wire mesh, painted pink, with heavy eyebrows and long pointed beards to mimic the abundant facial hair of Europeans. According to tradition, the hat was created by someone named Candido Rojas, the wire mesh masks by someone with the last name of Tlacomulco and the gown decorated with stripes and colored yoke by someone only known as \u201cBarrabas\u201d. The dancers march through the streets, striking poses and making jumping movements, often inviting onlookers to join in. They are accompanied by local bands, playing traditional music and even sons and other musical compositions created just for them. This Chinelo tradition was copied and modified by many other towns in Morelos, starting with Tepoztl\u00e1n, which has its own colors and style of hat. There are also Chinelo dancers in the southern boroughs of Milpa Alta and Xochimilco in nearby Mexico City. However, the dance is now a symbol of the state of Morelos.\nFeaturing the Chinelos dancing and marching through the streets, the Carnival tradition here is centuries old and held the days just before Ash Wednesday. By the time of the Mexican Revolution, the tradition had waned but it has made a comeback since the 1920s. Like with other versions of Carnival, the event is held for several days before Ash Wednesday but reaches its peak the night before on Tuesday. The annual celebration took root here during the colonial period in the mestizo and indigenous neighborhoods of the town, especially those who maintained strong indigenous traditions. One of these was the \u201cnemontemi\u201d or the five days at the end of the Aztec calendar, which occurred in early February, around the same time as the beginning of Lent. This event also marks the beginning of the dry season, when there is no agricultural work. Work moves to the management of stored grain and crafts.\nOn the day before Ash Wednesday, festivities begin at 10 in the morning with music and dance as well as fireworks. These wind through the streets on their way to the main square. The party continues in the square with music and food and rides and other attractions. However, the real festivities begin at sundown and continue until the stroke of midnight of Wednesday. Throughout the day and night, Chinelos can be seen dancing through the crowds. At its height, there are about 15,000 people crowded into the town center.\nBanda Tlayacapan.\nA number of bands featuring wind instruments play during Carnival and other festivals, but the oldest and best known of Tlayacapan's wind ensembles is the \"Banda Tlayacapan\". This organization was begun in 1870 by Vidal Santamar\u00eda, with only a chirimia (a traditional wind instrument) and some drums. It was originally called \"Los Alarcones.\" Soon after, other instruments such as tubas and saxophones were added. The band survived a number of historic events, such as the Mexican Revolution, as well as more mundane problems such as monetary disputes. Direction of the band has stayed with the Santamar\u00eda family, with Brigido Santamaria, who headed it for much of the 20th century, writing music for the band, such as \"Danza de los Chinelos\" and sons and preserving older traditional pieces that might have otherwise been lost. When he died in 1975, the band came under the direction of Carlos Santamar\u00eda who heads it today. The band received the 1998 Premio Nacional de Ciencias y Artes from President Ernesto Zedillo. 2010 marks the band's 140th anniversary. Many of the modern band's members represent generations of participation and the band is split into several sections for playing at different kinds of events such as traditional dances, civic events, and funerals. This band is culturally the most important in the state, and has traveled all over Mexico and the world.\nPottery and juego de aire.\nPottery has been made in the town since far back into pre-Hispanic times. Some of the oldest pottery found here is associated with the Olmec culture. One distinctive technique to the areas pottery is using cattail fluff as temper, mixing it into the clay. Pottery items include flowerpots, storage jars, figures, cooking pots, comals, jars, dishes and more. Many are glazed in various colors. To honor the tradition there is a \"Museo del Alfarero\" or Potters\u2019 Museum in the Capilla de la Natividad and a festival dedicated to the craft. The \"Feria del Barro\", also known as the Festival Cultural de Tlayacapan was initiated by Cornelio Santamar\u00eda and is held each November. The 2009 Feria de Barro featured singer Susana Harp and groups such as Leones de la Sierra as well as the native Banda de Tlayacapan. The festival not only showcases the area's pottery but also has expositions of photography, other crafts and children's events.\nOne pottery tradition unique to the community is a set of figurines called a \"juego de aire\" (literally \u201cair set\u201d). This is a set of clay figures, which are used in ritual healing, especially of diseases associated with \u201cbad air.\u201d The last craftsperson to preserve the art of making these is Felipa Hernandez Barragan. The set demonstrates a ritual healing scene with one figure, representing the sick person, and another representing the \u201ccurandero\u201d or shaman-healer with a bird in his hand at the center. Around them are various animals: a lizard, a millipede, a snake, a bull, a donkey, a spider, a scorpion and a frog, each of which has a cigarette tied to its back. These animals represent the various aspects of nature. Tradition states that certain illnesses are due to \u201cbad air\u201d or to supernatural forces that become offended if certain courtesies are not observed. One of these courtesies is to greet and/or offer food to an ant hill when walking by. Another is to make an offering in ravines and other places where water flows. Most of these beliefs have pre-Hispanic roots.\nFood.\nTraditional dishes include pipian (both red and green), tamales, various types of beans and tlacoyos. One local bean is called \u201cayocote\u201d which is large and dark red. Avocado leaves are used to flavor food and dishes often feature tomatoes, tomatillos, nopals and a plant called \"huanzontle\". \"Cecina\" (salted beef or pork) from the nearby town of Yecapixtla is popular as well.\nGeography.\nThe municipality consists of the main town of Tlayacapan and 31 populated communities, which cover an area of 71.52\u00a0km2. The largest community is Tlayacapan, which accounts for about half of the municipal population. Other significant communities include, Cuauhtempan (San Andr\u00e9s Cuauhtempan), Los Laureles (San Jos\u00e9 de los Laureles) and Nacatongo.(inegi) The municipality borders the municipalities of Tlanepantla, Yautepec, Totolapan, Atlatlahucan and Tepoztl\u00e1n.\nThe municipality is a valley surrounded by a chain of low mountains, most of which belong to the Sierra de Tepozteco. Which have capricious forms. To the south are peaks known as Ventanilla and Sombrerito. To the west are Huixtlazink, Tlatoani and Ziualopapalozink, which is the highest. On the northwest side are Tezontlala, Cuitlazimpa and Tepozoco, and on the north side is Amixtepec. Most of these peaks are rounded, which give the area its Nahuatl name. One of the figures said to appear on one of the mountains is that of the mother goddess Tonantzin. Forty two other god images are said to appear in the mountain range. One legend states that the faces of these gods were sculpted by human hands when the king Quetzalcoatl came to this area and pronounced it sacred. The profile of Tonantzin has been identified with the Virgin of Guadalupe because it appears most readily in the morning of 12 December, this virgin's feast day.\nHydrography.\nThere are no permanent rivers but there are seasonal ravines that crisscross the valley floor. The largest of these include Tepanate, Chicotla, Huiconchi and Santiago.\nClimate.\nThe climate is temperate and semi humid. Most rain falls during the rainy season in summer and early fall. Average temperature is 16C. Prevailing winds run south to north.\nWildlife.\nThere are mostly small mammals with some deer and the occasional puma. There are a number of bird species such as storks and owls and a number of reptiles and amphibians. There are also many varieties of spiders.\nTlayacapan is included in the nature preserve called \"Chichinautzin\", which was established in 1988.\nEconomy.\nThe area's economy is decidedly rural; however the overall municipality is not considered to be economically marginalized. One community is ranked as extremely poor and eleven ranked as poor, accounting for just under 2,200 of the municipality's total population.\nAgriculture and livestock form at least part of the economic base for over 90% of the population. Almost all farming occurs during the rainy season from June to October. Important crops include tomatoes, corn, beans, squash and cucumbers. However, the growing of tomatoes has decreased due to plant infestations, costs of herbicides and insecticides and falling market prices. Most of the municipal land was held communally in ejidos until recent constitutional changes allowed more land to pass into private hands.\nWhile agriculture remains the backbone of the area's economy, pottery is important culturally. This area's pottery has been produced the same way since the colonial period, with many of the same designs. Most workshops are family owned and generational, although only 1% of the population makes a living this way, and most is made in the Texcalpan or Santiago neighborhood. In addition to its own pottery, a number of stores have become distributors of crafts from other parts of the state as well as from Michoac\u00e1n, Quer\u00e9taro, Guanajuato and Puebla.\nMining was done there in colonial times but there are no records indicating exactly where. Some stories indicate that gold was mined in the Tlatoani Hill and silver in Popotl\u00e1n. Some openings in these mountains have been found but have not been explored. The area has deposits of lime, plaster, andesite, basalt and other volcanic rock, but these are not currently exploited.\nTourism is also considered important, due to attractions such as the former monastery and the La Cerer\u00eda museum, but this only employs 0.25% of the population. There are 23 stores in the municipality. Tourism and commerce together employ 7.3% of the population. Tlayacapan is part of the Ruta del Volcan, which is a tourist route set up by the state tourism trust. This route also includes Tepoztlan and Yecapixtla, with the \u201cvolc\u00e1n\u201d referring to the Popocat\u00e9petl volcano. Due to its \u201chistoric attributes\u201d, there have been calls for the town to become a \u201cPueblo M\u00e1gico\u201d (a program sponsored by the federal government), and it is being considered for inclusion.\nDemographics.\nAs of 2005, only 488 people were counted as speaking an indigenous language, down from 784 in 2000, accounting for only 3,8% of the overall population. Few emigrate from here, but there is a fair amount of immigration from states such as Guerrero, Oaxaca and Puebla.\nThe population in 2015 was 17,714, up from 13,851 in 2000. Almost all residents profess the Catholic faith.\nTransportation.\nThe major highway through the town connects the municipality with Mexico City to the north and Cuautla, Morelos to the south. There is another highway that connects the area with Yautepec de Zaragoza. Several bus lines provide service to the area including Crist\u00f3bal Colon and Estrella Roja. Local public transportation provides service to local areas as well as Oaxtepec."}
{"id": "732213", "revid": "23064323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732213", "title": "Totolapan", "text": "Totolapan is a municipality in the north of the Mexican state of Morelos, surrounded by the State of Mexico to the north; to the south with Tlayacapan and Atlatlahucan; to the east and southeast with Atlatlahucan; and to the west with Tlalnepantla.\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality, with which it shares a name. The municipality reported 11,992 inhabitants in the 2015 census.\nThe toponym \"Totolapan \"comes from a Nahuatl name and means \"birds on water\". The full name is Totolapan de Montes de Oca. Fernando Montes de Oca was a cadet who died at the Battle of Chapultepec during the Mexican\u2013American War in 1847.\nHistory.\nThe Chichimecas were the first settlers, who called the land \"Totalapan.\" Between 1150 and 1350 the Xochimilcas entered the territory, and later by Moctezuma I. Totolapan belonged to the Aztec tributary province of Huaxtepec, and was ruled by a lord who was assisted by four judges selected by him, as well as multiple \"tequitlatos\" who governed the calpulli of the town. Maguey was a local product.\nHernan Cort\u00e9s sent Gonzalo de Sandoval to Huaxtepec (Oaxtepec), also taking Totolapan in 1519, at the beginning of the Spanish Conquest.\nAfter the conquest, the lands of \"encomienda\" were granted to Diego Olgu\u00edn in 1536, but when the \"Marquisate of the Valley of Oaxaca\" was created, they were annexed to it.\nThe native population was evangelized by the Augustinians and the Monastery of \"San Guillermo Abad\" was built in 1545 under the leadership of Fray Jorge de \u00c1vila. This is one of the Monasteries on the slopes of Popocat\u00e9petl that have been declared World Heritage Sites by the UNESCO.\nIn 1742 Totolapan and surrounding communities were integrated into Chalco, and on January 1, 1813, these became parts of Cuernavaca and Cuautla.\nA comet seen in the area of Popocateptl volcano in 1910 was seen as an omen that convinced many inhabitants to join the forces of Emiliano Zapata in the Mexican Revolution. Bloody battles occurred at the monastery and on the \"Cerro de Santa Barbara\".\nServio Omar Livera Chavarria of Panal (New Alliance) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) on July 1, 2018. One of his priorities is to reestablish law enforcement, as several communities have established self-defense leagues, and he wants to prevent lynchings, like the recent one in Tetela del Volcan.\nThe Indigenous community of Hueyapan became self-governing on January 1, 2018.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of April 27, 2020; one case was reported in Totalapan. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On July 2, Totalap\u00e1n reported 50 infections and four deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Totolapan reported 22 cases, 10 recuperations, and four deaths from the virus as of August 31. Twenty-eight cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nLocalities.\nThe town of \"Totalapan\" is composed of the four traditional barrios: \"La Pur\u00edsima, Barrio San Agust\u00edn, Barrio San Marcos\", and \"Barrio San Sebasti\u00e1n\". There are three preschools; four public elementary schools, grades 1\u20136, (one for adults); and one middle school, grades 7\u20139. Totolapan is northeast of Cuernavaca and south of Mexico City.\nIn addition to the main town, there are other localities within the municipality: \"Ahuatlan\" (altitude 1,960 meters, population 510), Ampliacion San Sebasti\u00e1n, El Fuerte, San Sebastian (La Ca\u00f1ada), Nepopualco (altitude 2,040 meters population 1,957), Villa Nicol\u00e1s Zapata, and Santa B\u00e1rbara.\nThe communities of Totalapan are primarily agricultural. Corn, beans, and oats are the primary crops, along with peaches, pears, apples, \"tejocote\" (a yellow fruit), and \"capul\u00edn\" (a type of cherry). Ranching includes cattle, pigs, goats, sheep, and horses; beekeeping is also significant. Nearly half the population are involved in construction and manufacturing.\nAttractions.\nThere are several tourist attractions in Totalapan. The Ecological Park Los Venados (the deer) is in the community of Nepopualco. The hill of \"Santa Barbara\" is an excellent option for quiet walks during the day. This provides an excellent view of the town and was used as a lookout post during the Revolution. The hill of \"el Aljibe\", which means \"place where water is stored\", is interred in the mountain. When people decide to visit this second hill, they can see ravines and fields. This involves a 40-minute walk to a cave which includes a cave with a cistern. A ceremony is held here every May 3.\nThere are also several colonial-era chapels. \"San Miguel y Santiago\" is in the town of Nepopualco, \"San Agust\u00edn\" is in Tepetlixpita, \"San Sebasti\u00e1n\" in the town of La Ca\u00f1ada, \"San Pablo\" in San Miguel, and ruins of the chapel of \"La Asunci\u00f3n\" are in Ahuatl\u00e1n.\nThe main attraction is the \"Ex-Convento de San Guillermo de Abad\", which dates from 1534 by Fray Jorge de \u00c1vila of the order of the Augustinians and is part of the Monasteries on the slopes of Popocat\u00e9petl World Heritage Site. The monastery has an atrium designed for large processions. There are three \"posa\" chapels, including one attached to the main church, built for unbaptized Indians. The convent itself was built on a single floor, made of stone. It has a barrel vault, its facade is formed by a molded semicircular arch limited by two circular pilasters. The church has a wide altar with the image of San Guillermo. It also has several simulated monograms and ashlars, or carved stones. This is the only 16th-century convent with this type of decoration. The site is also unique because it is one of few that still includes the original garden area intact. The paintings in the interior of the church as well as the red geometric figures are well-preserved. The building has a great vaulted peak. Outside, the stucco facade was engraved with monograms and a stone carved with Christ. The side chapels include the original altars. There are two oil paintings reflecting the life of Fray Antonio de Roa. On the south side of the church, there is a large door that leads to the cloister of the convent. There is a painting that represents \"San Crist\u00f3bal\". In the same area you can see paintings such as St. Augustine, works with plants, and other geometric motifs.\nGeography.\nTotolapan is located at 18\u00b058' N, 98\u00b055' W; surrounded on the north by the State of Mexico, south by Tlayacapan and Atlatlahucan; east and southeast by Atlatlahucan; and west by Tlalnepantla. It is at an altitude of above sea level in the area known as \"Los Altos de Morelos\". The most important mountain peaks are \"El Coaltepec\" (), \"el Huitzomayor\" (), \"el Partido\" (), and \"el Citlalt\u00e9petl\" (). Other peaks are Cerro del Loreto, Volc\u00e1n del Aire, Cerro del Tezoyoc, Tepemapa, Santa B\u00e1rbara, Cerro del Texquistle, and Cerro Partido. Mountainous areas cover approximately 7.41% of the surface; the semi-flat areas 74.62%; plants cover 17.95%. The mountainous zones are mainly in the north and northeast of the municipality, although the south is also somewhat hilly. The foothills of the Sierra Chichinautzin and the Ajusco are semi-plains, whereas the center and south of the municipality have valleys and plains. There are sand mines in Colonias (neighborhoods) \"Lomas de Carril\" and \"Alta Palmira\".\nThe municipality has an area of , which represents 1.37% of the state's total. There are no significant waterways in the municipality. are for agricultural use, are for livestock, and are for forests. 100% of the land is ejidal.\nThe climate of Totolapan is Subtropical-humid, with an average temperature of and annual precipitation of . In the north there are forests of oak, pine, and \"madro\u00f1o\" (Arbutus unedo), among others. In the south there are varieties belonging to the low deciduous forest: \"casahuate, tepehuaje, guaje, palo dulce, amate blanco\", and \"copal\". Fauna includes white-tailed deer, raccoon, skunks, squirrels, the mouse of the volcanoes, puma or mountain lion, Moctezuma quail, mountain hen, Bellaterra pigeon, blue magpie, goldfinch, Florida mulatto, red spring, rattlesnake, viper rat, frogs, and lizards."}
{"id": "732216", "revid": "812224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732216", "title": "Geese Howard", "text": " is a fictional character and the main antagonist of SNK's \"Fatal Fury\" series. Debuting in \"\", Geese is the local crime boss of the fictional city of South Town. Geese created and hosts a fighting tournament named \"The King of Fighters\", in which he faces the brothers Terry and Andy Bogard who want to take revenge for their father's death. After several tournaments in the \"Fatal Fury\" series, Geese is killed by Terry in \"Real Bout Fatal Fury\". However, he continues to appear in subsequent games as a \"ghost\" named . Geese has also appeared in other SNK games such as \"The King of Fighters\" series, in which he seeks to get the power from the creature Orochi and often sends teams representing him. His young self makes an appearance in \"Art of Fighting 2\" as a secret final boss character. He also appears as downloadable content in Bandai Namco's fighting game \"Tekken 7\".\nOutside video games, Geese has appeared in the \"Fatal Fury\" animated adaptations as well as the CGI series \"\". The character has been popular within both the SNK staff who decided to feature him as a spectre (Nightmare Geese) in games following his death as well as \"Tekken\" producer Katsuhiro Harada who believed the character would fit in \"Tekken 7\".\nVideo game journalists have given Geese popular response due to how overpowered Geese acts in his boss appearances across most of his story. Geese's reveal as guest character in \"Tekken 7\" was met with acclaim due to how well he fit within the series' cast.\nCreation and development.\nAlthough Geese was not modeled after any famous person or fictional character, SNK based him on Italian mafia. Geese became famous for his special moves which allows him to interrupt the player's attacks and counterattack in a grab. Sub-boss Billy Kane obtained similar fame with both Geese and him having \"The Godfather\"-like influences that were expanded on later games. SNK was surprised by Geese's popularity in the \"Fatal Fury\" series, topping Terry Bogard in terms of fan response in regard to what players wanted as playable character. \"Real Bout Fatal Fury\" was originally created with the goal of putting an end to the series' story with Geese Howard's death in the ending, but Geese's high popularity resulted in \"Real Bout Special\" having him again.\nAccording to writer Akihiko Ureshino, Geese's life as a fighter originally began with him being thoroughly beaten by Wolfgang, who was younger than him. Geese is said to have a genius sense for fighting arts, but he is not just a genius. Geese had obtained everything and reached the top, but regardless of the outcome, he put up the best fight with Terry. Calling as an arrogant ruler Geese never have considered the possibility of losing to Terry. However, the moment he actually lost to Terry, he felt strangely satisfied. Ureshino believes Terry had no intention of killing Geese and getting revenge, and at most he just wanted to defeat Geese and make Jeff apologize after he died. Ureshino thinks Terry's feelings were expressed when he instinctively reached out his hand to Geese as he was falling off the building. However, Geese refused even that, and selfishly ended his life, abandoning the future of Billy and the connections he had built up. Ureshino said there are many people who don't want to see Geese as an emaciated old man with gray hair, but perhaps the person who least wants to see him is Geese himself.\n\"Dominated Mind\", the PlayStation version of \"Real Bout Special\", features Geese sporting a halo over his head as a reference to his passing, while the arcade version of \"Real Bout Special\" and \"The King of Fighters 2002: Unlimited Match\" features Geese sporting an aura of chi surrounding his feet, which would later be canonized in \"Maximum Impact 2\" as \"Nightmare Geese\". If he was a completely bonus character who didn't interact with other characters, a living Geese instead of a Nightmare, but the \"Maximum Impact\" series has a grown-up Rock, and Billy is also participating this time, so the writer Akihiko Ureshino thinks they deliberately chose to have him appear in this form. For Urenshino, it was fun to think about the reactions of Rock, or Billy, who faced Geese's nightmare. Of course, players should also pay attention to how Terry and the other \"Garou\" characters, or Southtown characters like Alsowa and Ryo, react when they come face to face with the revived nightmare. In response to rumors that Geese was a hidden character in \"Garou\", the Neo Geo staff denied it.\nGeese was first added to franchise \"The King of Fighters\" in \"The King of Fighters '96\". His inclusion highly awaited by developers and fans, as he was originally meant to appear in the previous game. Geese was partnered with two other SNK bosses, Mr. Big and Krauser. Even throughout the game, this boss team received special treatment. Leitmotif music were prepared for each member and at the time of this title's release, enthusiasm for this game reached a feverish pitch. Numerous special moves were prepared for Geese, but in view of the memory capacity and time required for adjustments, a number of moves had to be left out. The character was meant to return in \"The King of Fighters XII\" and \"The King of Fighters XIII\" but the developers did not have the time to add him. Due to the importance of Geese's character to SNK, the company decided to include quickly in \"The King of Fighters XIV\". This gave the team pressure in regards to adding his son Rock Howard as the character came from a game where Geese had been dead for a decade.\nDesign.\nIn the making of \"Fatal Fury: The King of Fighters\", SNK had multiple doubts how his design should be until it was decided he would wear a gi based on martial arts, as well as his overall name, likeness, and appearance being references to the three boss characters \"Black Gallop\", \"Geese\", and \"King\" from SNK's previous Neo Geo game \"The Super Spy\" (1990). Despite being American, SNK wanted him to be a man inspired by Japanese culture resulting in his final look. The appearance of Geese in \"Art of Fighting 2\" was of a younger man with long blond hair wearing a light purple and blue suit with red necktie. The character's popularity in \"Fatal Fury\" and his younger look from the first original video animation influenced his appearance in \"Art of Fighting 2\" as a hidden boss.\nIn the \"Fatal Fury\" and \"The King of Fighters\", Geese appears as a middle-aged German American man with blond short, slicked hair, wearing a gi with red hakama and white uwagi without sandals. In most games of the \"Fatal Fury\" and \"The King of Fighters\" series - except \"Fatal Fury: King of Fighters\" and \"The King of Fighters '96\" - Geese only wears the red hakama pants with the white uwagi either not present or hanging off the back/sides. The development team behind \"The King of Fighters XIV\" found his design as one of the most challenging ones to make alongside Terry Bogard's. In the end, he kept his original look but topless. For his \"Nightmare Geese\", an alternate look was given to the character, making Geese look like a zombie with silver hair, rotten skin and purple flames. \nKatsuhiro Harada said that if he could add a guest character into \"Tekken 7\" it would be Geese, praising the characters as he would fit into the cast. He added that both he and an interviewer liked the character which led to the idea of casting him into \"Tekken 7\". While remaining true to Geese's character, Harada stated his movements and design were completely remade so that fans from other series will try to play \"Tekken 7\" and learn its different mechanics. \"The King of Fighters XIV\" producer Yasuyuki Oda was pleased with Geese's inclusion in \"Tekken 7\" and celebrated it by taking a picture with Harada. For \"The King of Fighters XV\", Tomohiro Nakata designed Geese with his business suit but with an emphasis on the black color, believing it fits his evil personality and reinforces his connection with the Howard Connection. Nakata also claimed that Geese's classic gi was still available to select, finding his \"hakama\" iconic.\nAppearances.\nIn video games.\nGeese first appears as the final boss of '. Backstory material reveals that he and fellow martial artist Jeff Bogard trained together under Tung Fu Rue, but he became jealous when Tung chose Jeff as his successor, leading him to murder Jeff in front of his adopted sons Terry and Andy. The central plot of the game centers around the Bogard brothers returning ten years later to avenge their father by defeating Geese in his \"King of Fighters\" tournament. After the player defeats Geese, he falls from the top of the building, being declared dead during the game's ending. While Geese does not appear in \"Fatal Fury 2\", the plot revolves around his half brother Wolfgang Krauser seeking out the Bogard brothers to test himself against Geese's killers. Geese returns in the revised version of the game, \"Fatal Fury Special\", where it is revealed that he survived his fall at the end of the first game. ' centers around Geese's attempt to return to power by collecting the \"Sacred Scrolls of Jin\", which is said to give their holder great power.\nIn the next game, \"Real Bout Fatal Fury\", Geese is once again the final boss in the single-player tournament, confronting the player atop Geese Tower. In either, Terry's or Andy's ending, Geese falls off his tower once again, refusing to accept help from either of the Bogard brothers, leaving Terry to later raise Geese's young son, Rock Howard. Although this game was developed with the intention of featuring the character's death, Geese's popularity resulted in him still appearing in the next titles. Geese appears in the subsequent game which does not feature a plot, \"Real Bout Fatal Fury Special\", as a hidden final boss named Nightmare Geese. He also appears as a regular character in \"Real Bout Fatal Fury 2\", as well as \"Wild Ambition\", a remake of the first \"Fatal Fury\" game. In \"\", Nightmare Geese initially appeared as non-playable boss character before being made playable via downloadable content. The story reveals that before his death, Geese ordered the Sacred Scrolls destroyed due to being descended from the Jin family through the Stroheims, hoping to prevent himself and Rock from inheriting the scrolls' curse, and willingly distanced himself from his wife and son to protect them from his enemies.\nGeese also makes an appearance in the second game in the \"Art of Fighting\" series. \"Art of Fighting 2\", which is set a decade before the first \"Fatal Fury\", features a younger Geese Howard as the corrupt police commissioner of Southtown. Geese is revealed to be Mr. Big's boss and the mastermind behind the events of the previous game such as the kidnapping of Yuri Sakazaki. If the player wins every match against all the previous computer-controlled opponents without losing a round, the player's character will face Geese Howard as a hidden final boss. In the non-canon crossover video games \"NeoGeo Battle Coliseum\" and the \"SNK vs. Capcom\" series, Geese appears as a playable character; in the latter he commonly appears as a boss character.\nGeese also appears in a few games in \"The King of Fighters\" series, which does not follow the continuity established by the \"Fatal Fury\" and \"Art of Fighting\" games, despite sharing many characters and plot elements. In \"The King of Fighters '96\", Geese serves as the leader of the \"Boss Team\" along with former subordinate Mr. Big and rival Wolfgang Krauser, seeking to find the Orochi power. Geese would appear again in a non-playable role as the sponsor of the \"Special Team\" in \"The King of Fighters '97\", which is composed of Billy Kane, Blue Mary, and Ryuji Yamazaki. The team would reappear in \"The King of Fighters 2003\" renamed \"Outlaw Team\", with Mary (now part of the Women Fighters Team) replaced by Gato from \"Mark of the Wolves\". Geese also appears in \"The King of Fighters 2000\" as a striker, in the Xbox version of \"The King of Fighters 2002\" and \"The King of Fighters XI\" as a selectable character, as well as in \"The King of Fighters '98: Ultimate Match\", which brings back the Boss Team from \"'96\". He is also a playable character in \"The King of Fighters 2002 Unlimited Match\", alongside his \"Nightmare\" variant. The younger version of Geese from \"Art of Fighting 2\" also appears as a boss in \"The King of Fighters Neowave\". He also returned in \"The King of Fighters XIV\" as a playable character alongside Billy and his butler, Hein. In the ending, Geese reveals he has not unlocked the secrets of the Jin scrolls yet but these scrolls predicted the events of the tournament.\nOutside the main \"The King of Fighters\" game, he has been present in the spin-offs. In \"The King of Fighters Kyo\" he appears in South Town where he antagonizes the Bogard brothers as well as the protagonist, Kyo Kusanagi. In \"The King of Fighters EX: Neo Blood\" Geese organizes a new tournament in order to obtain the power from the participant Iori Yagami. After Iori is defeated, Geese will act as a boss character. In \"\" and \"Regulation A\", Geese is playable under the name of Nightmare Geese. His normal persona appears in the mobile phone game \"The King of Fighters All Star\" as well as \"98 Ultimate Match Online\". His \"Art of Fighting\" persona is also available in \"Kimi wa Hero\".\nGeese appears as a playable guest fighter in \"Tekken 7\" as downloadable character. He also appeared in Nintendo's \"Super Smash Bros. Ultimate\" as a background character in the King of Fighters Stadium stage and a spirit.\nIn other media.\nGeese Howard also appears in a trilogy of animated films based on the \"Fatal Fury\" video games, where his voice is provided by Hidekatsu Shibata in the original Japanese versions and Ward Perry in the English dubs. The first two installments, 1992's ' and 1993's ', both aired in Japan as TV specials on Fuji TV, while the third film, 1994's \"\", was a theatrical film. The English adaptations of all three films were released on home video by Viz Communications. The first two films loosely follows the storyline of the games and both feature Geese as a major character, establishing him and Wolfgang Krauser as half-brothers who share the same father, a plot element which was used in the video game series with \"Fatal Fury Special\". Geese makes a cameo appearance in the third film.\nIn addition to appearing in manga adaptations of the \"Fatal Fury\", \"Art of Fighting\" and \"The King of Fighters\" games published in Japan, Geese Howard was also the subject of a single-volume manga published in 1996 titled \"The Geese Howard Story\" by Etsuya Amajishi, adapting the character's fictional history from the \"Art of Fighting\" and \"Fatal Fury\" games. It was followed by a single-volume sequel in 1997 titled \"Geese in the Dark\", by the same author. Geese also appears in many CD dramas and stars in his own character image album. He also sings in a number of image songs. In the CGI adaptation of \"The King of Fighters\", Geese reprises his role from \"Fatal Fury\" with one episode showing his background and how he met Jeff Bogard, Terry and Andy's father.\nCritical reception.\nWhile interviewing Shane Bettenhausen, Ignition Entertainment's Director of Business Development, Alex Lucard from Diehardgamefan.com mentioned that one of the characters he wanted to be playable in \"The King of Fighters XII\" was Geese. Video games publications have added praise and criticism on Geese's character. Den of Geek listed him as the fifth best \"The King of Fighters\" character commenting he is likable despite being an antagonist as well his moves that allow him to counter enemies' attacks. \"GameAxis Unwired\" found the character as one of the most challenging ones, comparing him with other SNK bosses Wolfgang Krauser and Rugal Bernstein, finding the latter more difficult to beat though. \"Complex\" listed him as one of the most challenging bosses in gaming, citing the focus of his fights as well as how the character is hated by many other ones in the story. \nGameSpot reviewer Frank Provo comments that Geese's introduction in \"Fatal Fury\" is one of the biggest accomplishments from the game as he notes how Geese continues appearing in other games. Avi Krebs from Gamingexcellence.com noted that Geese was the hardest character of the series to defeat and jokingly commented that even though he fights \"while wearing a wristwatch, he pulls out all the tricks possible\". IGN writer Ryan Clements agreed with Avi Krebs saying that Geese is \"almost physically impossible to beat\". He also mentioned that due to how difficult Geese is, almost twelve different IGN people had to help Clements to win, being only able to defeat him \"resorting to the cheapest, most absurd tactics possible\". Eric Bratcher from GamesRadar commented that Geese is \"the big hook\" from the series along with Terry Bogard, labelling Geese as \"nearly un-killable\". While reviewing \"The King of Fighters Neowave\" Gamer 2.0's Patrick Mifflin found that Geese is the \"first SNK true villain\", and commented that his young appearance featured in such game \"can surely be chalked up to being one of the perks of a fighting game that has no story at all\". The Nightmare Geese version from \"The King of Fighters 2002: Unlimited Match\" was compared with \"Street Fighter\"s Shin Akuma in terms of difficulties by Eurogamer writer Matt Edwards who described him as one of the strongest opponents in the game. Geese was also in GameSpot's \"All Time Greatest Villains\" losing to Mother Brain from the \"Metroid\". Greg Kasavin from the same site listed his \"Knockdown Throw\" special move as the third best move in fighting games commenting that it was one of the first reversal moves ever made in video games way before they became popular. For this reason, Kasavin stated that Geese became \"one of the greatest fighting game characters of all time\". The Gamer commented that while Geese dies in \"Real Bout Fatal Fury\", his returns in \"The King of Fighters\" with \"XV\" retaining scrolls with potential for immortality have potential to revive him like other villains in gaming who die several times like Dracula from \"Castlevania\". Red Bull regarded Geese as one of the \"cheapest\" fighting game characters for the challenges he gives the players enough to annoy them. Comic Book Resources praised him not only for his iconic role in \"Fatal Fury\" due to his antagonism with Terry and Andy but how he often appears in \"The King of Fighters\" as a challenging boss. As by time in the \"Fatal Fury\" series that Geese's son, Rock Howard, becomes playable Geese is dead, the two never fought. However, some crossovers that featured these two characters have been praised for providing this desire encounter. \nRaphael See criticized Geese's final fight against Terry Bogard in the series' first original video animation as due to the chi-like techniques performed by the two fighters rather than actual regular martial arts. Upon his addition to \"Tekken 7\" as downloadable content, Suriel Vazquez from \"Game Informer\" said Geese would be a good addition despite not being his \"favorite Howard\". Gavin Jasper from Den of Geek found Geese's reveal as surprising due to lack of possibilities the character would appear as a guest. Nevertheless, he found Geese would fit into the cast as various \"Tekken\" are poor parents, specifically comparing him with \"Tekken\"s character Heihachi Mishima due to their actions across their respective series. Similarly, Polygon found Geese \"legendary\" and found this crossover between SNK and Namco as this was the first time a character from the SNK's games appeared into one of Namco. VideoGamer.com said that while Geese is \"a bit of a horrible bastard really, but in a game like this \"[Tekken 7]\", that means fun\". HardcoreGamer praised the translation of Geese's techniques into the trailer as well as his design as provided by the Unreal Engine 4 commenting that they are \"really shining when it comes to his facial expressions and extensive body scarring\". \"Game Axis\" shared similar comments and liked how \"Tekken\" gathered villains from the other games with the first one being Akuma."}
{"id": "732217", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732217", "title": "Xochitepec", "text": "Xochitepec is a \"municipio\" (municipality) of the state of Morelos, in central Mexico. Xochitepec is also the name of its principal township and seat of the municipal government. It is located approximately 13\u00a0km (8.1\u00a0mi) to the south of the capital of Morelos, Cuernavaca, on the southern outskirts of that city's greater metropolitan area.\nThe municipality reported 68,984 inhabitants in the year 2015 census. 1.65% of the population speak an indigenous language.\nThe toponym \"Xochitepec \" comes from the Nahuatl language, meaning \"on the hill of flowers\". The name may refer to a buried pyramid located at Kilometer 92 along the Mexico City-Acapulco highway, or it could refer to a hill in the center of the city that serves as the pedestal for a public clock.\nIn 2023, Xochitepec was designated a Pueblo M\u00e1gico by the Mexican government, recognizing its cultural and historical importance.\nHistory.\nPrehispanic History.\nExcavations in Zazacatla show the area was inhabited between 800-500 BCE. Xochicalco was inhabited from A.D. 200, with its peak from A.D. 700-900. Tlahuica settlements date from the 14th century.\nColonial Period.\nSpanish evangelization began in the 16th century, including the construction of the monastery of \"San Juan Bautista\" (St. John the Baptist) and the Hacienda of \"Santa Catarina\" in Chiconcuac. \"Villa Se\u00f1or y S\u00e1nchez\" reports in 1746 that Xochitepec had 35 indigenous families and 16 Spanish families. Churches were also built in Atlacholoaya and Alpuyeca.\nDuring the 18th century the hacienda of Temixco seized lands that belonged to Xochitepec.\nAt this time, Xochitepec was part of the province of Mexico City.\n19th Century.\nA strong earthquake in 1847 opened a sulfurous spring in San Ramon, Chiconcuac, in 1847. The site is a water park today.\nIn 1848, indigenous from Xochitepec were sentenced to garrote \"vil\" (a type of torture and execution) for rebelling against \"Hacienda Chiconcuac\" over a land dispute. Soldiers of Alvarez (\"Los Pintos\") assaulted the Hacienda of Chiconcuac in 1856.\nXochitepec was taken over by Republican forces in 1863.\n20th Century.\nFollowing Madero's call to arms in 1910, followers of Manuel As\u00fansolo advanced on Xochitepec and Cuernavaca in 1911. In retaliation for Zapata's 1913 manifestation calling Victoriano Huerta an \"usurper\", General Robles burned Xochitepec and other towns in Morelos.\nIn 1967, Claudia Ochoa Carrillo was the first woman elected \"Presidente Municipal\" (mayor) in Morelos.\n21st Century.\nAlberto S\u00e1nchez Ortega (PRI) was elected Presidente Municipal in 2018.\nOn March 27, 2019, former Atlacholoaya municipal police officer Juan Carlos Reyes Lara was found guilty of the kidnapping of the teacher Albino Quiroz Sandoval. Quiroz Sandoval, 70, was last seen in Tepoztlan on March 16, 2017.\nAs of May 4, 2020, there were 505 infections and 59 deaths in the state of Morelos and four confirmed infections from the COVID-19 pandemic in Xochitepec. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On July 2, Xochitepec reported 36 infections and five deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Xochitepec reported 151 cases, 106 recuperations, and 31 deaths from the virus as of August 31. Two hundred and forty-two cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nCommunities.\nSpanish: Communities of Xochitepec (retrieved Dec 10, 2018) \nCulture.\nThere are 63,382 residents in Xochitepec. with a female/male ratio of 0.971. Women have a fertility rate of 2.39, 30,97% of the residents were born outside the state of Morelos. 3.01% of the population identify as Indigenous and 1.65% speak an Indigenous language. There is a literacy rate of 92.72%, and the average educational level is 8.02 years. 77.70% of the men and 35.91% of the women are economically active. 77.38% of the population is Roman Catholic, 13,19% Protestant or Evangelical, 0.16% other, and 7.15% have no religion.\nXochitepec boasts a weekend handicrafts market in its Zocolo the \"Centro Cultural Xochitepequense\" with a library, historical archive, and workshops sponsored by INAH; the \"Magic Town\" of Chiconcuac; hotels including a 4-star hotel in Puente; the \"Parque Cient\u00edfico y Tecnol\u00f3gico del Estado de Morelos\" (Scientific and Technological Park of the State of Morelos); the Mariano Matamoros Sports Center; and two waterparks.\nMuseum.\n\"Centro Cultural Xochitepequense\" houses the \"Doctor Emeterio Gonz\u00e1lez Museo del Campesino\" (Peasant Museum). There are 500 objects on exhibit, including a meteorite, archaeological pieces, and agricultural tools in two exhibition halls.\nTraditional Food.\nCuisine includes white pork pozole, \"Barbacoa de Chivo\" (barbecued goat), Fish tamales, Spicy mole (from Atlacholoaya), and fruit-flavored ice cream from Alpuyeca.\nMusic.\n\"Atlacholoaya\" has a wind instrument band.\nTourism.\nPyramids.\nXochicalco.\nXochicalco is the most important archaeological site in Morelos. The main ceremonial center is atop an artificially leveled hill, with remains of residential structures, mostly unexcavated, on long terraces covering the slopes. The site was first occupied by 200 BC but did not develop into an urban center until the Epiclassic period (AD 700 \u2013 900). In addition to pyramids, there are three ballparks, an observatory, and a \"temazcal\" (ritual steam bath). At its peak, the city may have had a population of up to 20,000 people. The site is located in the municipalities of Temixco and Xochitepec and includes a museum with six exhibit halls.\nZazacatla.\nIn June 2006 a research team from Mexico's National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) began excavations at Zazacatla, a pre-Columbian Mesoamerican archaeological site located within the municipal boundaries. The INAH team led by Giselle Canto reported finding evidence of Olmec cultural influences at the site. Prior to the find Olmec-influenced statuary and architecture had been almost completely unknown for other sites in the western Morelos region, and Zazacatla's excavation represents the strongest evidence yet for some form of trade or contact between the area and the \"Olmec heartland\" in the Gulf Coast region, some 400\u00a0km (249\u00a0mi) to the east.\nIn January 2007 the governor of Morelos, Marco Adame Castillo, announced an offer for the state to underwrite the preservation of Zazacatla and to incorporate it into the tourism and cultural heritage plans for Morelos. He foreshadowed that a tourism project would be initiated at the site's location in Xochitepec once the archaeological investigations had further developed.\nAtlacholoaya penitentiary.\nThe state penitentiary is located in Atlacholoaya, Xochitepec. Designed for 1,900 inmates, it has a population of 2,487. The Telemundo TV series \"Enemigo \u00edntimo\", was filmed there in 2018."}
{"id": "732219", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732219", "title": "Osvaldo Dorticos", "text": ""}
{"id": "732221", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732221", "title": "Yautepec, Morelos", "text": "Yautepec is a municipality located in the north-central part of the Mexican state of Morelos. The municipal seat is the city of Yautepec de Zaragoza. It stands at .\nThe city serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of Yautepec. In the 2020 census the municipality had a population of 105,780, the fifth-largest community in the state in population (after Cuernavaca, Jiutepec, Cuautla, and Temixco). The municipality, which has an area of reported 102,690 inhabitants in the 2015 census. Yautepec de Zaragoza had 44,353 inhabitants in 2020.\nOther large towns in the municipality are La Joya (population 14,126), Cocoyoc (population 10,178), Oaxtepec (population 7,097), Los Arcos (San Carlos) (population 5,736), Oacalco (population 2,543), L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas (El Empalme) (population 1,503), Itzamatitl\u00e1n (population 1,366), Corral Grande (population 1,189), San Isidro (population 1,153), Ignacio Bastida (Santa Catarina Tlayca) (population 1,119), and La Nopalera (population 1,005).\nYautepec, has its etymological roots derived from \"Yautli\": Bright-colored plant with an aniseed flavor and yellow flowers in bouquets that indigenous people used for cleansing baths; \"Tepe-tl\": (hill) and \"k\" contraction of \"Ko\": (adverb of place); it means \"On the hill of the peric\u00f3n flower\" in English. President Benito Juarez changed the name from \"La villa de Yautepec de G\u00f3mez Far\u00edas\" to \"Yautepec de Zaragoza\" (of Zaragoza) in 1869 in honor of General Ignacio Zaragoza, the general who had led the Cinco de Mayo, 1862, victory over the invading French forces in Puebla.\nHistory.\nThe mythical love story of Popocat\u00e9petl and Iztaccihuatl is well-known. What is less known is that the princess's father preferred she date the King of Yautepec, which she did on at least one occasion.\nPrehispanic history.\nFrancisco Plancarte y Navarrete, Cuernavaca's second bishop (1898\u20131911), wrote \"Tamoanchan\u2014El Estado de Morelos y El Principio de la Civilizacion en Mexico\" in 1911. In it, he proposes that the first agriculturally based settlements in Mexico appeared around 1500 BCE in a place called \"Tamoanchan\" which he associates with Morelos. While later archaeologists do not mention Tamoanchan, the remains of an elephant-like animal dating back 6,000 years, have been found near Yautepec. These remains can be seen at the \"Museo Regional Cuauhnahuac\" (Palace of Cortes) in Cuernavaca.\nThe earliest findings are on the hill of \"Atlihuay\u00e1n\"; the first settlers in the region were the Olmec. The Olmec were nomads, living from hunting, fishing, as well as gathering roots and wild fruit. Archaeologists Valent\u00edn L\u00f3pez Gonz\u00e1lez and Ram\u00f3n Pi\u00f1a Chan, have found an Atlihuayan figurine, now exhibited in the National Museum of Anthropology and History in Mexico City. Also, nine pyramids and a ball court have been found in \"Itzamatitl\u00e1n\".\nYautepec and the entire Morelos Valley had a subordinate role in Mesoamerican history. From the Classic to the Postclassic the local populations developed under the influence of Teotihuacanos, Toltecas and Nahuas. It is with these last ones that the Valley had a greater relevance in the regional dynamics, since it was occupied by Tlahuica population (Nahuatl language speakers), taking Cuauhnahuac (Cuernavaca) as its capital and expanding its dominion to other zones, including Yautepec. In 1389, the inhabitants of Yautepec, Tetlama, and Jiutepec, fought the Tlahuicas.\nAfter the establishment of the Triple Alliance in 1438, the Tlahuica lordship was conquered and forced to pay tribute to the Mexicas. When Moctezuma I ascended the throne, he set about conquering Yautepec, forcing them to submit to the Lord of Tenochtitlan. Moctezuma built a botanical garden in \"Huaxtepec\" (Oaxtepec) in (1440\u20131469).\nConquest &amp; colonization.\nThe conquest of Morelos by the conquistadors under Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s was part of the strategy to achieve the ultimate goal: the fall of the Great Tenochtitl\u00e1n.\nUpon the arrival of the Spaniards, the Indigenous groups of the region were divided into two \"cacicazgos\": Cuauhnahuac and Huaxtepec. The conquistador sent an expedition to take the town of Ocuituco; later Gonzalo de Sandoval was sent to Yecapixtla. A year later, 1521, Cortes explored the lands submitted by Sandoval, then went to Tlalmanalco and Huaxtepec. After some bloody fights and some peaceful deliveries, including Yautepec, Morelos fell into Spanish hands. Cortes made peace with the \"Caciques\" in this area prior to his Siege of Tenochtitlan.\nOnce the military conquest was complete, catechization was carried out by Dominican friars, who began the construction of the convent of the Ascension of the Lord in 1567. It stands out for its simplicity and austerity. This large building is unlike many others, simple in its spatial solutions and form in fa\u00e7ade, nave of the temple, tower, and convent cloister. The church is rectangular, long, tall and rather narrow, interrupted in its length by two lateral chapels. The building has a popular Renaissance character. The choral window on the fa\u00e7ade is rectangular and possibly the largest one of any 16th-century churches in the state. There is a large but simple bell tower in the southwest corner. The convent emphasizes the austerity and simplicity of the home or abode of the friars. There are no luxuries, no ornamentation and here lies the beauty of this set. On the southeast side is the large open chapel, perhaps the largest of the Indian chapels in the state. This chapel is beautiful although it is semi-destroyed and abandoned.\nThe Dominican convent of \"Santo Domingo\" in Oaxtepec was founded by Fray Vicente de Sta. Ma. and Fray Domingo in 1533; it was the first built by that order in Morelos. This church does not have an atrium, and it was built on top of a prehispanic base some three or four meters above the level of the plaza. Both of these monasteries were recognized by the UNESCO as World Heritage Sites in 1994, and are included in the \"Ruta de los Conventos\".\nWhile cotton was the most important crop in the pre-conquest era, sugar replaced cotton after the conquest. The sugar cane haciendas of Cocoyoc and Atlihuay\u00e1n were built in the 17th century. Cocoyoc is a Nahuatl word that means \"place of coyotes\". The city of Cocoyoc was founded in the 11th century by the Tlahuicas. After the conquest, Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s was named Marquis of Oaxaca in recognition of his services to the Spanish crown. Cort\u00e9s also married Isabel, daughter of Moctezuma II. In 1614, the Hacienda received a license from the government to establish a sugar factory pulled by horses, in order to grind and process sugarcane. Elviro Ruiz, a descendant of Isabel, sold part of her inheritance to the peasants as farmland, but the hacienda later increased its lands through purchases, negotiations, and marriages. In 1698, the Hacienda consisted of three hundred and sixty-six hectares of irrigated land, a house, a chapel, the \"trapiche\" (mill) and other buildings necessary for the operation of a sugar plantation. However, it was later reduced by forced sales by fines of tax evasion and other debts, and on more than one occasion the entire property was auctioned off. During the 18th century, Hacienda Cocoyoc was one of the twelve most important sugar mills in the country and by then it had already had numerous owners.\nIndependence &amp; 19th century.\nThe haciendas established at Oacalco, Apanquetzalco, Atlihuay\u00e1n, San Carlos Borromeo, Cocoyoc and Xochimancas generally prospered into the 19th century, and the Mexican War of Independence (1810\u20131821) had little direct effect on the lives of the people of Yautepec.\nOnce Mexico achieved its independence, Yautepec became a community in the district of \"Cuautla de las Ampilpas\" in the State of Mexico. Over the next 40+ years, the country suffered through power struggles between conservatives (who favored a strong central government) and liberals (who favored a federated government) as well as several foreign invasions. In 1854 this led to the \"Plan de Cuernavaca\" which led to the ouster of dictator Antonio Santa Anna and in 1857 the Plan de Ayutla and civil war. Yautepec in 1861-1862 is the fictional setting of \"El Zarco,\" a novel about bandits called \"Los Plateados\" written by Ignacio Manuel Altamirano and published after his death in 1901. The reality relating to the bandits who thrived during this time of anarchy, however, may not have been as thrilling and romantic as Altamirano suggests.\nThe town was briefly called, \"la Villa de Yautepec de Gomez Farias\" in honor of one of the signers of the Plan de Cuernavaca. After the French invasion and the Republic was restored, Morelos became a state in 1869 and Yautepec became a municipality. The city of Yautepec changed its name to \"Yautepec de Zaragoza\" in honor of general Ignacio Zaragoza, hero of the Battle of Puebla. There is a bust of Zaragoza in \"La Plazuela de Leyva\" in the town center. The plaza itself is named for \"Francisco Leyva\", first Governor of Morelos as Yautepec became the first capital of the state (April 17, 1869). Leyva created the Literary and Scientific Institute of the State of Morelos with preparatory studies in agriculture and veterinary science; trade and administration; Arts and crafts; normal for teachers; and law. A telegraph line between Cuernavaca and Yautepec was laid in 1877 during the administration of Governor Carlos Pacheco.\nPeace was restored under the dictatorship of Porfirio Diaz, bringing prosperity to large landowners such as the Escandon family, who had belonged to the court of Emperor Maximilian.\nThe actress Virginia F\u00e1bregas Garc\u00eda was born in the Hacienda de Oacalco in the municipality of Yautepec on December 17, 1871. She was the daughter of Ricardo F\u00e1bregas of Spanish origin and of Mrs. Ursula Garc\u00eda de Figueroa. Her vocation for the theater was manifested from adolescence when the owner of the Hacienda de Apanquetzalco built a theater in the municipal seat which was a silent witness to the first artistic steps of the talented Virginia. As for the hacienda, it went bankrupt and its lands were bought by the Escandon family.\n20th &amp; 21st centuries.\nOne person died and the church was damaged during the September 19, 2017 earthquake.\nAgust\u00edn Alonso Guti\u00e9rrez (PRD-PSD) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) in the July 2018 election.\nMorelos had its first case of infection during the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico in mid-March, about the same time that Mexico entered Phase 2 of the pandemic and schools were closed. Mayor Agust\u00edn Alonso Guti\u00e9rrez announced on March 24 that he and other municipal authorities would donate half their salaries for buy food for low-income families in Yautepec. As of April 20, 2020, there were 12 deaths and 95 confirmed cases in the state, including one death and five cases in Yautepec, numbers that increased to 1,238 cases in the state with 248 deaths on May 25; Yautepec had 26 cases. The state office of DIF sent food and water to vulnerable groups of people in eight municipalities including Yautepec on May 26. On July 2, Yautepec reported 24 infections and five deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Yautepec reported 178 cases, 135 recuperations, and 35 deaths from the virus as of August 31. Three hundred thirty cases were reported on December 27, 2020. Yautepec reported 462 cases on January 14, 2021, sixth highest in the state.\nTourism, points of interest, culture.\nWater parks.\nDue to its pleasant climate and abundant, clean water, there are several water parks in Yautepec:\nFiestas, music, dance, handicrafts.\nCarnival (Spanish: \"Carnaval\") in Yautepec lasts four days: Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday (in 2019, March 3\u20136). There are several parades, bands, \"chinelos\" (dancers), and of course food.\nIn popular culture.\nMovies.\nNumerous national and international movies have been filmed in Yautepec. About 70 movies were filmed there during the Golden Age of Mexican cinema (1933\u20131964); Oacalco, Oaxtepec, and Cocoyoc were the most popular locations within the municipality.\nScenes from \"The Magnificent Seven\" (1960), directed by John Sturges and starring Yul Brynner, Eli Wallach, Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, Robert Vaughn, Brad Dexter, James Coburn, and Horst Buchholz were filmed in Oacalco.\nParts of \"Under the Volcano (1984 film)\" (1984\u20131985), directed by John Huston and starring Albert Finney, Jacqueline Bisset, Anthony Andrews, and Katy Jurado, based on the 1947 novel by Malcolm Lowry were filmed in Oacalco."}
{"id": "732222", "revid": "1194724477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732222", "title": "Andy Bogard", "text": ""}
{"id": "732223", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732223", "title": "Yecapixtla", "text": "Yecapixtla ( ) is a town and municipality located in the northeast of the state of Morelos in central Mexico. Yecapixtla means, \"Land of men and women with sharp noses\". The town is home to one of the monastery complexes associated with the Monasteries on the Slopes of Popocat\u00e9petl World Heritage Site. Yecapixtla is famously known for its tasty, high-quality beef, cecina (cured dry meat).\nThe population of the municipality is 52,651 according to the 2015 census. The town was hit hard by the September 19, 2017 Puebla earthquake, in which two people died and the church was damaged.\nTown.\nThe town's historic center surrounds the church and former monastery complex of San Juan Bautista. Immediately surrounding it are the four neighborhoods established in 1550: San Pablo, La Concepci\u00f3n, Santa M\u00f3nica, and San Esteban. The town center around the monastery complex was divided by a number of arroyos, but most of these have since dried and/or have been filled in. A number of newer neighborhoods such as Mexquemeca, Tlachichilco, Los Reyes, Zahuatl\u00e1n and La Cruz Verde were originally independent communities that were annexed as the town grew later in its history.\nThe main facade of the monastery complex is to the west, with the back of it facing the main plaza and municipal palace of the town. The town clock is visible from the main plaza; the clock was placed on one of the monastery's back towers by Father Evaristo Nava in the early 20th century. The main plaza is sometimes called the Plaza de Tributaci\u00f3n, referring to its pre-Hispanic and early colonial period function as a place to collect tribute such as crops and handcrafted items from the area which is now eastern Morelos state. During the early colonial period, this plaza was part of the monastery complex and continued its tribute collecting function. (forteleza) While the San Juan Bautista Church dominates both the town of Yecapixtla as well as the surrounding municipality, there are a number of other churches such as San Sebasti\u00e1n M\u00e1rtir, Santiago Ap\u00f3stol, de la Virgen de Guadalupe, Santo Tom\u00e1s Ap\u00f3stol, San Agust\u00edn, Nuestro Padre Jes\u00fas, Santa Luc\u00eda, San Nicol\u00e1s, San Miguel, Los Reyes, San Marcos, La Santa Cruz, San Pablo, Santa M\u00f3nica, La Inmaculada Concepci\u00f3n, Santa Cruz Ecatepec and San Francisco Calapa.\nHistorically, Yecapixtla has been a regional commercial and governmental center since pre-Hispanic times. In addition to its function as a tribute collection center in the pre-Hispanic and early colonial times, it was also a major crossroads for migrations and other traffic between the Valley of Mexico and points south. The town continues to function as a commercial center, with a weekly regional tianguis (open air market) on Thursday. There is also a weekly market on Mondays dedicated solely to cattle. However, the largest market of the year occurs the last Thursday of October. This market has its origins in the pre-Hispanic festival honoring the birth of Yacapitzauac, a deity which acted as a guide for travelers and protector of merchants. Records indicate that this festival/market has been observed in one form or another since the 1330s. Today, the highlights of this event includes the dance of the Chinelos, and a ballroom dance with features orchestra and popular music. The Feria de Cecina or Cecina Fair is also held on this date, promoting the town and municipality's regional specialty of beef cecina as well as dairy products such as cream and cheese. These joint events together are even larger than that of the patron saint, John the Baptist, on 24 June. This event is celebrated for two days with fireworks on frames called \"toritos\" (little bulls) and \"castillos\" (small castles), bands playing wind instruments and folk/regional dances from various parts of Morelos and neighboring State of Mexico. Another annual event is the Feria y Exposici\u00f3n Ganadera or Cattle Expo and Fair. In addition to the showing of animals, there are charreada events, bullfights and number of cultural attractions. Today, Yecapixtla still has a large number of religious festivals and other events. Some of the most important occur on New Year's Day, Candlemas, Holy Week, especially Maundy Thursday, Day of the Holy Cross (May 3), feast of John the Baptist on 24 June, Day of the Dead and the posadas leading up to Christmas. On the last day of Holy Week, the folk dancers enter the San Juan Bautista Church, make the sign of penitence and then move into the atrium for a day of dancing. Maintaining order during the event are people dressed as Roman soldiers.\nIn addition to the monastery complex, Yecapixtla is best known for the making and sale of beef cecina, which is a kind of marinated beef. Cecina does not have its origin in Yecapixtla, but it is the area most famous for its production in Mexico. This beef is prepared in large thin sheets of meat, which is then cut and quickly grilled. The favored kind of cecina is a marinated beef, but the pork version coated with chili pepper is consumed also. Yecapixtla calls itself the \"World Capital of Cecina.\" Traditionally, cecina is eaten with cream and/or cheese from the community of Achichipico.\nMonastery and church of San Juan Bautista.\nThe site of the church and former monastery of San Juan Bautista was a teocalli, or sacred precinct, dedicated to a god of commerce called Yacapitzauac. This teocalli was destroyed by the Spanish under Gonzalo de Sandoval when he captured and sacked the settlement in 1521. This teocalli and god were the center of the pre-Hispanic community. The Franciscans were the first to arrive in the 1520s to evangelize the local population and they built a small church on the site. However, this church was destroyed in a fire. The Augustinians took over evangelization in the 1530s and formally established the monastery, dedicated to John the Baptist. This figure was chosen because Yacapitzauac was depicted with a staff as a sign of his authority, and John the Baptist is often depicted with a staff. Most of the monastery was constructed between 1535 and 1540. At that time, there was sufficient income to the order to not only finish much of the monastery in a short time, but also to add a number of fine details. Construction of a number of smaller elements continued until 1586. The complex presents similarities with others built by the Augustinians in eastern Morelos at this time, such as a stone wall around the perimeter and the use of merlons, which give these monasteries the look of a medieval castle. Due to the diminishing importance of Yecapixtla, the monastery was mostly abandoned by the 17th century, with the Augustinians losing formal control of the church and community in the mid 18th century. The complex remained mostly untouched until the late 19th century when Father Jos\u00e9 Pilar Sandoval did some remodeling work in the main nave of the church. More restoration work was undertaken by Father Evaristo Nava in the early 20th century, which included the addition of an organ and changing the sacristy into a tabernacle. In 1994, the complex became part of the Monasteries on the slopes of Popocat\u00e9petl World Heritage Site.\nAs common to monasteries of the time, the complex is fronted by a very large atrium. This atrium is surrounded by a stone wall topped with merlons. The main entrance to the atrium from the street has merlons, as well as the chapels found on each of the wall's four corners. From the main entrance to the church, there is a volcanic stone walkway, divided by an atrium cross, which has a heart, a chalice and a depiction of the Host in low relief. The atrium cross is not the original. The original was broken by a child in 1961 when he was trying to climb onto its base. The cross fell onto the child killing him. Along the atrium walls on the inside, there are a number of empty niches that remain, which probably held images related to the Stations of the Cross. Access to the chapels in the corners, called capillas posas, is in the atrium. These chapels\u2019 primary function was the house the Host during processions on Corpus Christi.\nAt the back of the atrium is the complex which consists of a large church and cloister. The front of the church has a very tall facade, which is mostly undecorated, flanked by two corner buttresses and topped by a small recessed tower. Along the top of the facade and on this tower, there are merlons. The church also has a bell tower, but it is somewhat recessed from the facade and is also topped with merlons. Under the cornice, there is a frieze which divides into two parts. On the right-hand side, there is the date of 1526 depicted in Aztec style, when the Franciscans arrived, accompanied by the coat of arms of that order. On the left is the year in which the pre-Hispanic teocalli was destroyed.\nBetween the merlons and the main portal, there is a Gothic rose window and below this is the main portal with subtle design work. The rose window stands out most. It is a circular stone which was cut in a floral-like pattern to let in light, surrounded by a frame with elaborate ornamentation. It is one of very few rose windows in Mexico from this time period. While the overall style of the window is Plateresque Gothic, it was fashioned by indigenous hands. It contains indigenous elements as well. The \"flower\" in the center indicates the four cardinal directions and the twenty cherubs in the frame surrounding it represents the days of the month of the Aztec calendar. This frame also contains the bust of a bound woman who probably represents the mother of Huitzilopochtli.\nThe portal is a simple arch with subtle reliefs with small angels, cherubs and vegetative motifs on the archivolt as well as portraits of saints and friars. One of these portraits may be \"Jorge de Avile y Ro\", the founder of the monastery. On the left side there is a portrait of a layperson with a Roman-style haircut, who was probably the architect. The wooden doorjambs are decorated with the heads of angels and rose patterns as well as vegetative motifs. The bars on the main doors were added in 1910 by Father Evaristo Nava, who also donated the clock that can be seen on the complex's back tower. Around the arch and the doors, the portal is sculpted in both a detailed and subtle way. To the side of the doorway, there are two pairs of pilasters. These are in Renaissance style while the rest of the portal mixes Gothic and Plateresque. However, the columns also have channels which are more often associated with the later Churrigueresque. At the base of the columns there are busts of Saint Ambrose, bishop of Milan and Cicero, who was an influence on the philosophy of Saint Augustine. The pilasters are topped with capitals, which support a frieze that contains reliefs of small angels flying with a cross in the center. Above the frieze, there is a panel with a niche, today empty, flanked by the coats of arms of the Augustinians and the Franciscans. Underneath the coats of arms, there is an angel riding a dragon. Topping this is a pediment.\nThe northeast side of the church is marked by a long wall with three Gothic windows and the side portal in Renaissance style. This is the portal most often used by parishioners as it is closest to what is now the main plaza of the town. This portal has a barrel arch flanked by two sets of pilasters. Between the sets, there are very worn decorative details, including two medallions. These are notable because they depict a man and a woman in civil attire with no religious aspect. The archivolt of the arch contains bundles of spears tied with different elements. In the center of one of these bundles, there is a heart, a symbol of the Augustinians. A cornice encloses the area.\nThe main entrance of the church leads into space under the choir area, which is covered by a Gothic vault with nerves that form the shape of a star. The highly stylized murals painted in black on the side walls have been retouched. They consist of bands of decorations with contains elements such as letters, niches, and coats of arms. This entrance area ends with an arch that opens into the main nave. This area serves as the baptistery and contains three monolithic pieces, which originally were part of the teocalli. The first two are used for baptisms. The first is the large basin to hold water for baptism. The second, called a \"piscina\" is meant to receive the water that pours off the head of the one being baptized. On the outside of the main basin, there are the heads of animals and humans, which may indicate that the bowl was originally part of a fountain, readapted to its current function. The heads that protrude indicate the duality of life with the masculine represented by a jaguar and the feminine represented by a woman. The use of a jaguar symbol indicates Olmec influence. Next to these two, there is a small pillar with worn, unidentifiable designs, whose purpose are unknown.\nA small door in the entrance area covers a stairway that leads to the choir area above. This choir area contains medieval style murals and a balustrade with a crest of \"Fleur-de-lis\" sculpted of sandstone. It also contains an organ similar to the ones used in medieval European cathedrals, and is the only one of its kind in the Augustinian monasteries of the region. The only other one in the region is in the originally Franciscan cathedral of Cuernavaca. It was donated by \"Evaristo Nava\" in 1915, using the money he was saving to go to the Holy Land.\nThe main nave is enormous and very tall. At the front is an apse, which like the area under the choir has a vault with Gothic nerves which form a star pattern. The current main altar found here is not the original. The original altar was Baroque which contained twelve paintings with each of the Apostles as well as one of John the Baptist and Saint Augustine. These paintings have since been moved to the pinacotheca of the Cuernavaca cathedral. The current altar is a large white 19th century Neoclassical style piece, inspired by a Roman mausoleum. It has two levels on a circular base with a Corinthian-style capital. It features an image of John the Baptist.\nMost of the original mural work that covered the walls and ceilings are deteriorated or lost, but reconstructed murals have been added to parts, especially in the spaces between the nerves of the vaults. These murals contain soft colors which form lines, geometrical shapes and floral shapes reminiscent of ironwork. These probably date to the last third of the 19th century but this is mostly conjecture. The side walls contain faded remnants of narrative scenes, which have not been dated either. One of the best-conserved elements inside the church is the 16th-century pulpit, made of sandstone sculpted with fine Gothic style designs. In each of the faces of the design, anagrams of the name of Christ or the coat of arms of the Augustinians appear. There is none like it from all of the Mexican colonial period. The original confession booths are built into the wall on the right side of the nave, separating the church and the cloister, with the priest entering one side and the confessor entering through the other. They were covered up for much of the church's history until 1954 when Father Jose Maria Mendez moved the altars on this wall to reveal them. Between them and the baptistery area, there is a large door that leads to the cloister of the former monastery. In colonial times, this door was only opened for Mass on major festivals.\nThe facade of the cloister has two levels and is fronted by an arched porch area, called a porter\u00eda. Above the porter\u00eda, there are two windows, and the remains of the pilasters of an arch that corresponds to the open chapel, which was like a balcony. However, this balcony area was eventually walled in to make more interior space. The porter\u00eda contains two arches and a frieze adorned with round forms which protrude. The porter\u00eda contains the main entrance to the cloister area, above which is a crucifix set on top of a skull, which represents Calvary. The foyer of this entrance used to serve as a baptistery in the late 19th and early 20th century. The paintings here are from that era. They depict stories about the Virgin Mary who is shown with the infant Jesus in her arms and symbols of the Trinity around them.\nInside, the cloister has only one floor that surrounds a central courtyard, separated by sixteen simple arches which have buttresses. On the interior of each arch, there are dark red circles, which are all that remain of medallions which probably had religious anagrams. In the center of the courtyard, there is a fountain and a sundial etched onto a pillar. There are two main interior portals, one that leads to the refectory and the other that leads to the current priest's quarters. Like other cloisters of this area and time, there are remnants of mural work. Near the large doorway to the church, there is a group of four saints done in black and white, which look upon a scene which has since been lost. There are areas that conserve parts of friezes with images drawn in white over a black background, especially in the upper parts of the walls. Images of saints appear on the spaces between the arches, which are drawn to simulate sculptures contained in niches with Plateresque columns and topped with shells. In one corner, there is a seated figure of a sainted pope, whose face and eyes are well done. Most of the rest of the paintings are narratives, but most of the work has been partially or fully lost, and those that remain are not in good condition. One exception is a depiction of the road to Calvary and the Crucifixion. The vaults of the passageways are decorated with coffers, some of which are hexagons, which may indicate the influence of Italian architect Sebastian Serlio. The Sala de Profundis, or meditation room, contains well-preserved multichromatic murals which depict a large number of saints including a series of martyrs and a depiction of Saint Augustine. These images are in the process of restoration by the Instituto Nacional de Antropolog\u00eda e Historia. In the south wing of the cloister there is an entrance to an underground area, which tradition says used to lead to Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s\u2019 house, but since destroyed. There is also a door that leads to the garden area, which grew food for the monks. Fruit trees bearing mangos, guavas, coffee, limes, oranges and plums and more still grow here. It is one of the few monasteries which still has its garden area, although it is greatly diminished.\nMissing from the view are the kitchen area and latrines. It is thought that the Chapel of San Jos\u00e9, now opening into the church, was originally the kitchen of the monastery. This chapel is known to have existed in this form at least since the 19th century. The monastery has an archive which dates back to the year 1600, which mostly records baptisms, confirmations, marriages and deaths of the local population. During the Mexican Revolution, this archive was sealed behind a wall in order to avoid its destruction.\nHistory.\nPre-hispanic era.\nThe name Yecapixtla has been translated in a number of ways. Several sources claim that the name refers to the wearing of a stone called a \"chalchuihite\" through the nose, translating to \"land of pierced noses.\" This was indeed practiced in the area among pre-Hispanic governors as a sign of their status. This translation may come from documents written by Gutierrez de Lievana from 1580. The Aztec glyph of the area does show a pierced nose. The government of Morelos claims that the name translates to \"land of gentle airs\" referring to the calm weather and lack of strong winds. The glyph also contains a flying insect which could allude to this. However, the name is very close to the name of a god of commerce, Yacapitzauac, whose teocalli was the center of the pre-Hispanic settlement. This teocalli was destroyed by the Spanish and a church dedicated to John the Baptist put in its place.\nThe eastern portion of what is now Morelos state had been settled since the Olmec period, and this culture controlled most of the area through the main settlement of Chalcatzingo. It is also known that groups of Chalcas and Xochimilcas passed through. Xochimilcas and Tlahuicas came to settle around 1325. Yecapixtla itself was established by a group of Xochimilcas. This same area of Morelos was conquered by Moctezuma I in 1440, and Yecapixtla became a tributary collection center for the Aztecs due to its strategic position in the basin of the Amatzinac River. The Aztecs called this settlement Tlalnahuac. The ruler of Yecapixtla had the title \"Chichimecate cuahueyac\" and was assisted by two judges of noble extraction. Cotton was grown here, and local merchants sold it in the Valley of Mexico. Yecapixtla fought wars against Huejotzingo and some Mixtec towns.\nConquest and colonial period.\nDuring the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, a few months before the fall of Tenochtitlan, Spanish soldiers under Gonzalo de Sandoval came to Yecapixtla to conquer it. Sandoval arrived to the settlement from Huejotzingo, bringing warriors from this place, which had been a traditional enemy of Yecapixtla. The battle between Spanish and local eagle warriors took place at the \"Xaplan\" ravine on 15 March 1521, and the town resisted the invaders fiercely. However, the warriors were unable to withstand the Spaniards\u2019 superior weapons and the eagle warrior dynasty of this area was destroyed. The remaining warriors retreated from Yecapixtla permanently, but some went to Tenochtitlan to defend it. The victorious Spanish sacked, destroyed and killed many in the town.\nYecapixtla lay in ruins, but Hern\u00e1n Cort\u00e9s had interest in it and the surrounding area because of the well-established tribute collection system and the land's aptitude for fruit orchards. Cort\u00e9s built a house in the town and laid claim to the area. However, the first colonial government in Mexico City gave the lands in the area to Diego de Olgu\u00edn. Cort\u00e9s left for Spain in 1529, making the area an encomienda called \"Tlalnahuac\", which included fourteen communities including Yecapixtla. When Cort\u00e9s returned from Spain, he carried a seal making him the Marquis of the Valley of Oaxaca, giving him possession of large swaths of land, including the Yecapixtla area and four others in Morelos. The Cort\u00e9s family would keep these lands through the rest of the 16th century. Yecapixtla kept its function as a tribute collection center and became a commercial center, especially for the cattle trade.\nThe first missionaries to the areas were the Franciscans, who arrived and built a small church in 1525. In the 1530s, they were replaced by the Augustinians. This order began to construct the monastery complex which remains to this day. It was mostly built over a period of five years, from 1535 to 1540, made possible by the income provided by the settlement's status as a tribute collection center. The monastery and town was dedicated to John the Baptist. He was chosen because he is often depicted with a cloak, sandals and staff, much like the pre-Hispanic patron of the settlement, Yecapetzauac. After the monastery was built, it became a regional administrative center because of its location along a number of commercial routes. The town of Yecapixtla was reorganized around the monastery complex in 1550, into four neighborhoods: San Pablo, La Concepci\u00f3n, Santa M\u00f3nica and San Esteban, which still exist. These roughly correspond to the pre-Hispanic organization of the town, but it was much reduced in size due to population loss, especially on the south side. The town at that time was crisscrossed by arroyos and ravines spanned by small bridges, especially around the monastery, but since then many have dried out and filled in.\nDepopulation continued at the end of the 16th and early 17th centuries, and the monastery's importance diminished. By the end of this time, the monastery was all but abandoned, as Cuautla grew and became the regional center. In the 17th century, those who had land rights under what were called \"primordial title\" began to struggle with Spanish owned haciendas over surface water. Much of the land in the municipality is not suited for the growing of crops but is instead suited for the raising of livestock, especially cattle. For this reason, the area's industry in providing beef and dairy products such as cream and cheese began relatively early in the colonial period. Orchards established in the very early colonial period were still important. There was another period of depopulation in the 18th century when many residents went to work in haciendas in Cuautla and other areas in Morelos.\nIn the 18th century, the Augustinians officially lost control of the monastery complex and the population to regular clergy in 1754. During this time, many of the popular religious festivals such as the Semana de San Juan (Week of Saint John) and Day of the Dead became established in the town and surrounding area, often encouraged by the new clergy. The development and growth of local religious festivals would continue through the rest of the colonial period and into the 19th century, through the establishment of brotherhoods (cofrad\u00edas) dedicated to a particular saint or another religious element.\nIndependence and 19th century.\nBecause of its strategic position between the Mexico City area and points south, armies associated with the Mexican War of Independence, Reform War and Mexican Revolution all passed through here. In 1810, Yecapixtla was part of the Jonacatepec municipality. It became an independent municipality in 1869.\nFor a brief period in the late 19th century, Yecapixtla experienced a surge in economic development when a railway was built through connecting it to Mexico City through what is now the eastern panhandle of the State of Mexico. Electricity and telephone were introduced. During this time Evaristo Navo was the head clergyman in the area and is credited with a number of developments including a parish school, the installation of a church organ, with accompanying encouragement of musical training. He also installed the clock on the San Juan Bautista Church. One purpose of the parish school was to preserve and in some cases restitute old traditions which had been lost due to the Liberal reforms of the latter 19th century.\nRevolution and 20th century.\nThe parish school closed in 1911. Further attempts to keep older traditions alive were headed by Juventino Pineda Enriquez who created the \"Misiones Culturales\" (Cultural Missions).\nThe town shrank again in population due to the Mexican Revolution, with men going off to fight and the remaining women and children dispersing, with some going to Mexico City. The war ruined the town's economy and after the war, many families who had left never returned. After the war, agriculture returned when an ejido was established to the south of the town and slowly the town recovered. Development remained slow until the mid-20th century when new infrastructure such as the reestablishment of electricity and telephone, a new highway and a bank allowed for more economic contact with the outside. The new infrastructure attracted new residents. Public schools were opened in the 1930s and 1940s. An agricultural technical school was opened in 1972.\n21st century.\nYecapixtla and surrounding communities were hit hard in a September 19, 2017 earthquake, when two people died and the church was damaged. According to the Secretary of Health, 324 homes were destroyed and another 413 were damaged in the municipality.\nFrancisco Erik Sanchez Zavala of the Morelos First coalition PAN was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) on July 1, 2018.\nThe federal government held a referendum on February 23\u221224, 2019, to decide whether to build a thermoelectric plant and a gas pipeline in Huexca. Voters in Morelos and parts of the states of Puebla and Tlaxcala were asked if they supported the completion of $22 billion peso (U.S.$1.6 billion) plant completed in September 2017 but not put into operation due to lack of connection to the Cuautla River. Samir Flores Soberanes, a leading opponent of the plant was murdered and there were violent protests during the public consultation. 59.5% of the 55,715 citizens voted in favor of construction, and 40.1% voted against. A number of safety and environmental factors have not yet been resolved. Construction was restarted in September 2020 after a halt to deal with environmental problems; the plant is due to open by the end of 2020 after an investment of MXN $20 billion (US$939 million). The National Guard was used to break up a group of demonstrators in Apatlaco who were protesting against the use of water resources from the Cuautla River for the thermoelectric plant. The protesters also argued that President L\u00f3pez Obrador had promised to oppose the project during his presidential campaign.\nThe state of Morelos reported 209 cases and 28 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico as of April 27, 2020; two cases were reported in Yecapixtla. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. On June 2, Yecapixtla reported 55 infections and four deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. It was reported on June 11 that the number of atypical pneumonia deaths has doubled, and it is suspected that many of these are related to individuals who died from COVID-19 at home without being tested for the disease in a hospital. Yecapixtla reported 113 cases, 95 recuperations, and 17 deaths from the virus as of August 31. One hundred ninety cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nHuman body parts were discovered in a hidden grave in Colonia Mixtlalcingo on June 7, 2020.\nMunicipality.\nAs municipal seat, the town of Yecapixtla is the local governing authority for over 100 named communities which cover a territory of 192.33km2. About 36% of the municipal population of 39,859 lives in the town proper. As of 2005, there were 363 people who spoke an indigenous language, down from 420 in 2000. Population growth in the municipality has been historically erratic. In recent years, it has grown due to migration into eastern Morelos from other parts of Mexico. The overwhelming majority consider themselves to be Catholic although there is a small Evangelical community and a small number of the Jewish faith. Aside from the seat, other important communities include Achichipico, Adolfo L\u00f3pez Mateos, Aquiles Serd\u00e1n, Capulines, Huesca, Juan Morales, Los Limones, Los Reyes, Mexquemeca, Pazulco, Tecajec, Texcala, Tezontetelco, Tlamomulco, Xochitl\u00e1n, Yecapixteca and Zahuatlan. The municipality borders the municipalities of Ocuituco, Zacualpan, Temoac, Ayala, Cuautla and Atlatlahucan with the State of Mexico to the north.\nThe area is part of the slopes around the Popocat\u00e9petl volcano. The highest elevations are in the north, descending gradually to the south, east, and west. Major elevations include Yoteco (2110 masl), Boyero (1824 masl) and Mirador (1882 masl). There are formations of volcanic rock, including basalt. Surface water consists of runoff from Popocatepetl into streams and small rivers, many of which have formed deep ravines such as the one named Yecapixtla, which begins in the State of Mexico and passes through Zahuatl\u00e1n and Mexquemeca. before emptying into the Cuautla River. Other streams include \"Arcos de Ortiz, Malpaso\" or \"La Cuera\" and \"Del Negro\". Other named ravines in the territory include \"Xococotla, Atlamaxa, Las Animas, Tepanche, Xalpa, Tamalera\", and \"Remudadero\". There are also a number of freshwater springs such as \"Chirimoyo, Las Pilas, La Tener\u00eda, La Mora\", and \"Tepetlapa\". In general, the climate is warm and humid with rains falling principally from June to October. Average temperature is 19.6\u00a0\u00b0C, and annual rainfall is between 800 and 1000mm. There is little difference among the seasons in temperature. Overall, the north tends to be somewhat cooler than the south due to altitude. Much of the municipality is covered in pine and holm oak forest, with some other species such as amate (a type of fig) tree, casahuates and guamuchiles. Most other vegetation is deciduous. Most of the area's wildlife has been extinguished with only various insects and reptiles to be found wild.\nThe municipality has two primary economic activities, the making of cecina and other beef products and agriculture/livestock. There is also a small pottery industry. About 5,800 hectares are under cultivation, with about 2,600 used for grazing and 8,707 as forest. About two-thirds of the land in the municipality is owned communally in ejidos or other arrangements. The rest is privately owned. About 94.7% of the agricultural land is used for agriculture and livestock, with about 32% still considered to have a significant amount of wild vegetation. Almost all crops (97.8%) are grown during the rainy season. Principle crops include corn, sorghum and tomatoes. About 2.2% of the crops are perennials and include avocados and coffee. Most of the livestock raised is cattle (mostly dairy) and domestic fowl. The municipality accounts for 6.3% of the total agricultural output of the state. There are deposits of sand, stone and gravel for construction. There is also a small industrial park which provides employment for the area.\nCommunities.\n\"Yecapixtla\" is the municipal seat. There are 14,524 inhabitants and the city is located at 1,500 meters (4,921\u00a0ft.) above sea level. Yecapixtla is 64.5\u00a0km (40.1 miles) from Cuernavaca and 99.4\u00a0km (61.8 miles) from Mexico City. Its Sister City is Pharr, Texas.\n\"Juan Morales\" has a population of 11,592. It is 1,340 meters (4,396\u00a0ft.) above sea level. It is located 14.4\u00a0km (8.9 miles) from Yecapixtla. \"Xochitl\u00e1n\" has a population of 2,235. It is 1,740 meters (5,709\u00a0ft.) above sea level. It is located 8.0\u00a0km (5.0 miles) from Yecapixtla. \"Achichipico\" has a population of 1,997. It is 1,920 meters (6,299\u00a0ft.) above sea level. It is located 11.0\u00a0km (6.8 miles) from Yecapixtla. \"Tecajec\" has a population of 1,498. It is 1,570 meters (5,151\u00a0ft.) above sea level. It is located 12.5\u00a0km (7.8 miles) from Yecapixtla. \"Texcala\" has a population of 1,353. It is 2,000 meters (6,562\u00a0ft.) above sea level. It is located 13.9\u00a0km (8.6 miles) from Yecapixtla. \"Yecapixteca\" has a population of 938. It is 1,500 meters (4,921\u00a0ft.) above sea level. It is located 5.9\u00a0km (3.7 miles)from Yecapixtla. \"Huexca\" has a population of 912. It is 1,420 meters (4,659\u00a0ft.) above sea level. It is located 9.5\u00a0km (5.9 miles) from Yecapixtla. \"Mixtlalcingo\" has a population of 635. It is 1,405 meters (4,610\u00a0ft.) above sea level. It is located 11.1\u00a0km (6.9 miles) from Yecapixtla.\nOther communities in Yecapixtla have fewer than 500 inhabitants.\nPolitics.\nYacapixtla is part of the Fifth Federal District for the Chamber of Deputies. It is the seat of the 4th electoral district for the Morelos legislature.\nThe municipal government consists of the municipal president, one trustee, five town councilors elected by majority vote, and two town councilors elected by proportional vote."}
{"id": "732226", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732226", "title": "Zacatepec, Morelos", "text": "Zacatepec de Hidalgo (Zacatepec from the Nahuatl Zacatl meaning grass and tepetl meaning hill, thus loosely meaning \"grassy hill\") is a town in the state of Morelos, Mexico. It is bordered by Puente de Ixtla, Tlaltizap\u00e1n, Tlaquiltenango and Jojutla. Miguel Hidalgo was the priest whose call to arms on September 16, 1810, led to the Mexican War of Independence.\nThe town serves as the local seat for the government, with which it shares the name. The municipality reported 36,159 inhabitants in the 2015 census.\nThe main industry in the town and its surrounding countryside is that of sugar cane cultivation and processing. The most noticeable feature of the town is the sugar mill located in its center and during operating hours the air of the settlement is laden with the sickly-sweet smell of sugar.\nStudents come from surrounding parts of Morelos to study at the public university, the Instituto Tecnol\u00f3gico de Zacatepc, which is located on a site adjacent to the sugar mill.\nHistory.\nIn pre-Columbian times Zacatepec was under the Tlahuica lordship of Cuauhnahuac (Cuernavaca). According to the tribute registration and to the list of tributary towns to Texcoco, analyzed by Blanca Maldonado, Zacatepec and Tetelpa were characterized by being a cotton-producing town with irrigation infrastructure tribute to the Triple Alliance (Acolhuas, Tepanecas, and Mexicas) dominant in the Valley of Mexico, from its total subordination in the year of 1437 during the Itzcoatl Empire.\nAfter the conquest, Zacatepec fell under the jurisdiction of the Count of Oaxaca. After the Spanish conquest, evangelization of the area was the responsibility of the convent of Santo Domingo de Tlaquiltenango. In 1619, Pedro Cort\u00e9s, Marqu\u00e9s del Valle, granted Juan Fern\u00e1ndez Moradillo, 200 hectares of land along the Tetelpa river. Over the years, the land and sugar refinery passed to Diego de Mendoza, his son-in-law Mateo de Lizama his son-in-law, and Manuel Francisco de Verazategui. The lands of Zacatepec continued to belong to the convent of Santo Domingo de Tlaquiltenango; Manuel Francisco de Verazategui didn't pay his taxes in 1722, so the archbishop of Mexico City seized the land and granted power to Pablo de Arizabalo to sell it. The mill was acquired in 1741, by Blas Andreu de Olivan, along with the sugar mill of Santa Rosa Thirty Pesos.\nThe local civil authority at this time was in the town of Tetala, not Zacatepec; there is further evidence of this in an 1804 lawsuit against Domingo Coloma, owner of the hacienda of San Nicol\u00e1s (today Galeana) and an alleged land grab. His defense? \" [The peasants] earn more than they need\u2026 [they are] busy in various activities such as fishing for catfish, trout, \"roncal\", and corbina\u2026 and [working as] muleteers and couriers.\" After all, the peasants were \"far from being landless, they have leased them\" and \"at the moment several pieces are seen of public and notorious that their tenants planted of indigo\". The peasants raised cattle and pigs; they grew corn, sesame, melons, watermelons, bananas, chilies, peanuts, tomatoes, avocados, prickly zapote, lemons, and oranges.\nThe independence of Mexico put Zacatepec in the State of Mexico until the creation of the State of Morelos in 1869.\nOn February 5, 1938, President L\u00e1zaro C\u00e1rdenas inaugurated, in what was once the hull of the old hacienda, the installations of the sugar mill that he had ordered to build, with social purposes, to improve the conditions of the \"ejidatarios\" and workers of the factory. Within this context was born the decision to elevate the municipality to Zacatepec. Thus, on December 25, 1938, the Governor of Morelos Elpidio Perdomo, promulgated Decree No. 17 whereby:\n\"Art. 1 .- The free municipality of Zacatepec, Morelos is created, which will be formed with the extension comprising the assistantships of Tetelpa, Galeana (the former hacienda of San Nicol\u00e1s) and Zacatepec, the latter being the head of the aforementioned municipality and retaining each of them the denomination and limits that they currently have \".\nZacatepec was one of the hardest-hit communities in Morelos state during the September 9, 2017 earthquake; ten people died, 884 homes were damaged; nearly half of which were totally destroyed.\nOlivia Ramirez Lamadrid of Panal (New Alliance) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) on July 1, 2018.\nThe state of Morelos reported 505 infections and 59 deaths due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico; nine infections were reported in Zacatepec as of May 4. Schools and many businesses were closed from mid March until June 1. The figures went up to 1,238 cases and 238 deaths on May 25; Zacatepec reported 36 cases. The local IMSS hospital mistakenly delivered two corpses to the wrong families on May 12. On June 6, Zacatepec reported 58 infections and 15 deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Zacatepec reported 181 cases, 128 recuperations, and 4 deaths from the virus as of August 31. David Suayfeta, a doctor at the local IMSS hospital, was burned to death when an explosive device was thrown at his car on November 21. Three hundred thirty-seven cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nFormer municipal president Francisco Salinas S\u00e1nchez (2015\u20132018) was arrested on corruption charges on August 5, 2020.\nPoints of interest.\nThere are a number of parks and gardens in Zacatepec, such as the \"Miguel Hidalgo\" garden in the \"z\u00f3calo\" of the municipality; the Liberal Garden located between the \"lienzo charro\" (rodeo) and the sugar mill on Morelos street; and the \"Maestra Toyita Park\", located on the outskirts of Tetelpa. There are spas such as Real de San Nicol\u00e1s in Galeana (with 8 swimming pools) and Iguaz\u00fa (with 7 pools) in Tetelpa.\nThe festivals of Zacaptepec are June 29 in honor of the town's patron, \"San Pedro Ap\u00f3stol\"; December 8 in honor of the Virgin of the Immaculate Conception; and December 13 to commemorate when Father Mariano Matamoros rose in arms for independence in 1810. Traditional festivals are accompanied by Chinelo dancers and brass bands, as well as dances of \"Tecuanes\" and Apaches. Traditional foods are white pork pozole, \"Chito\", pork barbacoa, \"mixiote\" (steamed) fish, tamales, and \"clemole\" (meat and vegetable soup) seasoned with wild plum and tamarind.\nThe \"Cerro de la Tortuga\" state park in the Ejido de Tetelpa is one of the last remnants of low deciduous forest in the center-south of the State of Morelos and is the last ecosystem with wild plants and animals of the Municipality of Zacatepec. It features a ceremonial center, the church of \"San Esteban Tetelpa\", and a community museum.\nCommunities of Zacatepec.\nThe principal economic activities of the municipal seat of Zacatepec of Hidalgo are farming (sorghum, corn, beans), ranching (cattle, goats, poultry, and pigs). The approximate number of inhabitants is 3,700. Its cultural attractions are the church of San Pedro and the museum of the priest Mariano Matamoros. Its trade is the production and sale of crystallized sweets.\nSan Nicol\u00e1s Galeana has a population of 10,071. It is located at 930 meters above sea level. There are three preschools, two elementary \"primarias\" (grades 1\u20136), one \"secundaria\" (middle school, grades 7\u20139), one \"preparatoria\" (high school, grades 10\u201312), and one teachers' college (\"Universidad Pedagogica Nacional 17-1 Subsede Galeana\").\nSan Antonio Chiver\u00edas has a population of 1,031 and is located 945 at an altitude of 945 meters. There is one preschool, one elementary school, and one middle school. Its principal economic activities are farming (rice, sorghum, and corn) and ranching (cattle, goats, pigs, and chickens).\nGeography.\nLocation, altitude and area.\nZacatepec is located in south-central Morelos at North 18\u00b041' North and 99\u00b011' West. It borders Puente de Ixtla and Tlaltizap\u00e1n on the north, Tlaltizap\u00e1n and Jojutla on the east, Jojutla on the south, and Jojutla and Puente de Ixtla to the west. It has an area of that represents 0.5% of the total state of Morelos.\nClimate.\nZacatepec is semi-dry with a poorly defined winter, dry fall, winter, and early spring, and a rainy season from June to October. The average temperature is and annual precipitation averages .\nRelief and waterways.\nMost of the municipality is in a valley and there are no mountains. The \"Cerro de La Tortuga\" (Turtle Hill) is located at 18\u00b040' West and 99\u00b013' North at an altitude above sea level. Cerro de la Tortuga is one of the last remnants of low deciduous forest in the center-south of the State of Morelos and is the last ecosystem with wild plants and animals of the Municipality of Zacatepec. Many of these species have high medicinal, craft, food, ornamental, or commercial uses. The area is a state park in the \"Ejido de Tetelpa\" and covers . There is a ceremonial center, the church of \"San Esteban Tetelpa\", and a community museum. Part of the park is in Xoxocotla, Puente de Ixtla.\nThe Apatlaco River crosses a small part of the municipality, passing Zacatepec, Tetelpa, and Galeana.\nNatural resources.\nThere is a quarry near the \"Cerro del Venado\" (Deer Hill) in the eastern part of the municipality. 68% () of the land is cropland (sugar cane, rice, peanuts, watermelon, and melon), 14.5% is forest, and 18% other uses ( fishing, industrial).\nFlora and fauna.\nMuch of Zacatepec consists of deciduous forest, of warm climate; jacaranda, tabach\u00edn, casahuate (a medium-sized tree with white flowers), ceiba (a very large grayish-green tree with pink or white flowers that provide fruit) and bougainvillea. Wild animals include white-tailed deer, boar of collar, raccoon, badger, skunk, armadillo, hare, common rabbit, coyote, wildcat, weasel, cacomixtle, tlacuache (a member of the raccoon family), and bats, flagged bird, chachalaca, magpie copetona, vulture, aura (buzzard), crow, owl, and songbirds and ornamental birds.\nAgricultural crops include sugar cane, rice, corn, and beans. Fruit crops include mangoes, avocados, and guavas. Cattle, pork, sheep, and horses are ranched; poultry are also raised.\nSports.\nZacatepec de Hidalgo has a football team, named Club Atl\u00e9tico Zacatepec, nicknamed \"Ca\u00f1eros\" (Sugarcane growers). Their colors are white and green. Their uniform color is a white shirt with a big green line in the midsection and white shorts and socks. Their greatest achievements were in the 1950s when Zacatepec won two titles in Primera Divisi\u00f3n de M\u00e9xico (Mexico First Division): 1954\u20131955 season and 1957\u20131958 season. They were runners-up in the 1952\u20131953 season when they lost the league championship to Tampico. Zacatepec won the Copa Mexico (Mexico Cup) in the 1958\u20131959 season. The team plays in Tercera Divisi\u00f3n de M\u00e9xico (Third Division).\nThe head coach of Zacatepec during the 1950s was the Mexican Ignacio Trelles, who later became head coach of the Mexico national team in the 1962 FIFA World Cup in Chile and 1966 FIFA World Cup in England.\nAgustin \"Coruco\" Diaz stadium is the home venue of Zacatepec, founded in November 1954. It was inaugurated by the then-president of Mexico Adolfo L\u00f3pez Mateos. The stadium is euphemistically called \"la selva ca\u00f1era\" (the sugarcane jungle), due to Zacatepec's humid weather conditions. Zacatepec's motto is \"Hacer Deporte es Hacer Patria\" which means \"Doing sports is to be a patriot\"."}
{"id": "732228", "revid": "23064323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732228", "title": "Zacualpan de Amilpas", "text": "Zacualpan de Amilpas is a town in the Mexican state of Morelos. The town serves as the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality, with which it shares a name. To the north is the municipality of Tetela del Volc\u00e1n, to the south is the municipality of Temoac, to the east is the State of Puebla, and to the west are the municipalities of Ocuituco and Yecapixtla.\nThe municipality reported 9,370 inhabitants in the year 2015 census.\nThe toponym Zacualpan comes from a Nahuatl name: \"tzacual-li\" (covered thing) and \"pan\" (on top of); thus, \"atop that which is covered\". Amilpas refers to the 25 human settlements controlled by Moctezuma Ilhuicamina from his palace in \"Huaxtepec\" (Oaxtepec). The term continued to be used during the colonial era.\nGovernment and political division.\nZacualpan de Amilpas is the municipal seat. It has 3,492 inhabitants and is located above sea level. There are three preschools, three elementary schools (grades 1\u20136), and one middle school (grades 7\u20139). It is from Cuernavaca and from Mexico City. Its Sister City is Pharr, Texas.\nTlacotepec is the assistant municipal seat. It is north of Zacualpan. It has 5,087 inhabitants or 60% of the population of the municipality. It is located above sea level. There are three preschools, four elementary schools, two middle schools, one high school (grades 10\u201312).\nOther communities are very small: Barrio de San Juan, Barrio de San Pedro, Barrio de San Nicol\u00e1s, Colonia Guadalupe Victoria, Colonia San Andr\u00e9s, Colonia Emiliano Zapata, Colonia Mariano Escobedo, and Colonia Pante\u00f3n.\nHistory.\nPre-Hispanic history.\nResearchers point to the Olmecs as the indigenous group who arrived in Zacualpan de Amilpas, considered the first inhabitants in the pre-Classic period between the years 1000 and 900 BCE. The second group to arrive were the Toltecs. Shortly after that, groups of Chichimecas and Chalcas arrived, founding new communities in Totolapan, Tepoztl\u00e1n, Tlayacapan, and Zacualpan.\nConquest and colonialism.\nThe \"Plan de Amilpas\" (Amilpas Plain) including Zacualpan was conquered by Captain Gonzalo de Sandoval on March 14, 1521. Francisco de Solis obtained several villages, including Zacualpan de Amilpas, Huazulco, Temoac. He planted orchards, cultivated wheat, and corn, and had beehives. In 1543 New Spain was organized into four provinces: Michoac\u00e1n, M\u00e9xico, Coatzacoalcos, and Las Mixtecas; the present territory of Morelos was part of the Mexico province.\nThe spiritual conquest of Zacualpan de Amilpas began in 1533 with the arrival of the provincial vicar, Fray Francisco de la Cruz, who ordered Jorge de \u00c1vila and Jer\u00f3nimo de San Esteban to evangelize the region. In 1535 the two monks began construction of a church and a convent to honor the Immaculate Conception of Mary next to the Amatzinac Canyon. The building was designed by Fray Juan de la Cruz, one of the best architects of the order of the Augustinian order. The church is small and rectangular. an octagonal apse, towering arches, and columns with a square section that supports the roof. The side Chapel of the Rosary dates from the 18th century and is covered by an octagonal dome. The main fa\u00e7ade has a semi-circular arch framed by a pair of square pilasters, with molded capital. Above the pilasters is a frieze and cornice molding in Renaissance architecture style. Higher up, there is a small rectangular window and a late 19th-century clock and the west side. The belltower, located in the northwestern corner, is rectangular. On the southwest there are three different-sized semicircular arches forming an open chapel. The monastery and cloister is austere and simple. The central courtyard has walls, arches, buttresses, and cornices of quarry stonework, such as in Jantetelco and Oaxtepec. The atrium was built on a higher level than that of the street, indicating that the complex is located on the pre-Hispanic foundation. The fence is at the level of the atrium, but from the street, it is quite high.\nThe haciendas of San Nicol\u00e1s in Zacualpan, Cuentepec, Chicomocelo were established in the 16th century.\nIn 1646 the province of M\u00e9xico became the \"Real Audiencia;\" Cuautla became an \"alcaldia\" (mayoralty) belonging to the Intendencia of Puebla. In 1786, Jos\u00e9 G\u00e1lvez, supported by King Carlos II, divided Nueva Espa\u00f1a into two \"comandancias\" or zones, besides establishing three governments and twelve \"intendencias\".\n19th century.\nThe municipality originally belonged to the \"Intendencia de Puebla\", but when the municipalities of Tlapa and Iguala were exchanged with the State of Mexico, the \"Alcald\u00eda Mayor de Cuautla\" kept Zacualpan de Amilpas. The municipality was created in 1849 when Zacualpan refused subservience to Cuernavaca. In 1869, upon the creation of the State of Morelos, Zacualpan formed part of the District of Cuautla de Amilpas.\nRevolution and the 20th century.\nThe Constitution of 1857 was designed to end the abuses of the Church and other large landowners, but it failed. During the Mexican Revolution, many men from Zacualpan joined the \"Zapatistas\" and supported the Plan de Ayala. Zapata defended education as it was designed by Antonio D\u00edaz Soto y Gama, who ordered the establishment of schools in Tochimilco, Puebla, Jantetelco and Zacualpan de Amilpas. The temple and ex-convent were used as military barracks by federal troops as well as revolutionary ones.\nOn December 17, 1937, the walls of the ex-convent in Zacualpan de Amilpas and elsewhere were cracked during an earthquake, convincing people that steps were needed to preserve historical monuments. A law was passed on June 9, 1939, that declared colonial convents national monuments and providing for their preservation.\nDifferences between Zacualpan and surrounding communities led to the establishment of Temoac as a municipality on March 17, 1977.\n21st century.\nThe (7.1Mw) September 19, 2017 earthquake destroyed most of Zacualpan, which is from Axochiapan, the epicenter. At least 73 people died in Morelos.\nRoberto Adrian Cazares Gonzalez of \"Por Morelos al Frente\" (Morelos First coalition) was elected Presidente Municipal (mayor) on July 1, 2018.\nWhen the federal \"Pueblos Magicos\" program was canceled in 2019, the state of Morelos established its own program to promote tourism, called \"Pueblos Encantados\" (\"Charmed Towns\"). Zacualpan de Amilpas was the first town in Morelos to become a part of this program.\nDuring the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico, as of May 10, there were 812 infections and 106 deaths in the state of Morelos but none in Zacualpan. Zacualpan was the only municipality in the state without reported cases. On July 2, Zacualpan reported one infection but no deaths from the virus; the reopening of the state was pushed back until at least June 13. Zacualpan reported 12 cases, ten recuperations, and one death from the virus as of August 31. Twenty-six cases were reported on December 27, 2020.\nMunicipal presidents.\nThe following is a list of municipal presidents from 1958 to the present:\nTraditions and culture.\nThere is a barter fair and Tianguis (from Nahua \"Tianquiztli\") tradition in Zacualpan de Amilpas that goes back to 700 BCE. Every Sunday morning, people from Zacualpan and neighboring communities such as Tetela del Volc\u00e1n, Temoac, Ocuituco, Hueyapan, and Yecapixtla gather outside the church to trade farm goods, animals, and handicrafts.\nThere is a fair in Tlacotepec from August 12\u221216 for the Assumption of Mary. There is a festival in Zacualpan on the second Sunday of October in honor of the Our Lady of the Rosary. These events are accompanied by brass bands and Chinelos (dancers).\nTraditional foods include green mole of pepita (\"pipi\u00e1n\"); tamales de ceniza (ashes); red mole with turkey; cecina with cream, cheese, and green sauce; and barbecued goat. Zacualpan de Amilpas is famous for its aguardiente.\nGeography.\nLocation, altitude, and area.\nZacualpan de Amilpas is located in the northeast of Morelos, at 98\u00b0 46' West longitude and 18\u00b047' North latitude, at an altitude of above sea level. It borders Tetela del Volc\u00e1n on the north, Temoac on the south, Ocuituco and Yecaplixtla to the west, and the State of Puebla to the east. It has an area of .\nRelief and water resources.\nZacualpan de Amilpas is in the foothills of the Popocat\u00e9petl Volcano; among the hills, there are deep, boxy ravines. The soils are a volcanic eruptive type. There are several streams including Amatzinac River, which has its source in the vicinity of the Popocatepetl volcano. Five streams are located in Tlacotepec. There is a small dam on the Amatzinac in the town of Zacualpan.\nClimate.\nThe climate is semi-warm all year round, and semi-humid in the spring. The average temperature is and the average annual rainfall is .\nFauna and flora.\nThe flora of the municipality consists principally of low deciduous forest, of warm climate; jacarand\u00e1 (a flowering tree), tabach\u00edn del monte (Mexican holdback), casahuate (a thorny tree), seiba, copal (traditionally used for incense), zomplantle (a medicinal plant) and bougainvillea. Animals include raccoon, Coati (similar to a raccoon), skunk, armadillo, hare, rabbit, coyote, wildcat, weasel, opossum, and bats, flag bird, chachalaca (a rather noisy bird), copetona magpie, buzzard, aura, raven, owl, and songbirds.\nEconomy.\nZacualpan de Amilpas is primarily an agricultural area. The major crops are sorghum, beans, and corn. There are orchards with guava, papaya, and peaches. Cattle, pork, sheep, horses, and fowl are raised on ranches. Commerce and services are less important. The volcanic rocks in the area are mined."}
{"id": "732229", "revid": "49562940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732229", "title": "Stig of the Dump", "text": "Stig of the Dump is a children's novel by Clive King which was first published in the United Kingdom in 1963. It is regarded as a modern children's classic and is often read in schools. It was illustrated by Edward Ardizzone and has been adapted twice for television, in 1981 and in 2002. It was featured in a broadcast as an adaptation on BBC Home Service for schools in November 1964, and later on the BBC series \"Blue Peter\".\nPlot.\nBarney is a bored young boy staying with his grandparents on the chalk Downs of southern England. One day, he falls over the edge of an old chalk pit close to his grandparents' house, tumbling through the roof of a den. While exploring the den, Barney encounters its owner, Stig, a caveman with shaggy, black hair and bright black eyes. The chalk pit is disused and full of people's dumped rubbish.\nBarney and Stig quickly become friends. They learn to communicate with each other without language, as Stig speaks no English. Stig's den is a place built out of discarded rubbish, which motivates Barney to help Stig make it look more attractive. They spend time repairing and improving Stig's den, collecting firewood, going hunting, and at one point catching some burglars who break into Barney's grandparents' house. On another occasion Barney is cornered by the bullying Snarget brothers, who become uncharacteristically docile when Stig appears and are impressed by Barney's friendship with Stig. Although Barney mentions Stig to others, no-one (with the exception of the Snargets) believes that Stig is real.\nBarney starts to give thought to where Stig has come from. During a very hot, sultry mid-summer's night, when Barney and his sister Lou are unable to sleep, they find themselves transported back in time and out onto the Downs. To their surprise, they meet Stig, back with his own people, engaged in the construction of four gigantic standing stones. They spend a night camping out with the people of Stig's tribe, and helping to shift the final stone into position before sunrise. As dawn breaks, the tribe disappear and the stones suddenly become ancient and weathered; but Stig is still there. Stig got transported forward in time with the standing stone which led him to the modern day.\nBarney and Lou do not share their adventures with anyone, and their parents never realise the truth of Stig's existence, although they jokingly talk about him as a kind of magical being that can fix particularly \"odd jobs\". It is left unclear whether Barney sees much more of Stig, or even whether Stig stays in the rapidly-filling rubbish dump. A figure that resembles Stig is sighted working with junk in various locations around the area; but the book concludes that \"perhaps it was only a relative of his\", suggesting that Stig may not be the only caveman alive in the modern world.\nAdaptations.\n\"Stig of the Dump\" was adapted for television, firstly by Thames Television for ITV in 1981 and later by the BBC in 2002 starring Thomas Sangster, Robert Tannion, Nick Ryan, Geoffrey Palmer, Phyllida Law, Perdita Weeks, and Michaela Dicker. The BBC series won the BAFTA Children's Film &amp; Television Award and its writer, Peter Tabern, received the Best Children's Writer award. The series has been released on DVD.\nThe book has also been adapted for the theatre, to critical acclaim. Topologika Software Ltd has published an adventure game for Microsoft Windows based on the first three chapters of the book."}
{"id": "732230", "revid": "196446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732230", "title": "Eastern rosella", "text": "The eastern rosella (Platycercus eximius) is a parrot native and endemic to south-eastern Australia. It was first introduced to New Zealand in cages, which then both intentionally released and accidentally escaped into the wild and has been found establishing mainly in the North Island (notably in the northern half of the island, Taranaki, Waikato and in the Hutt Valley) and in the hills around Dunedin in the South Island since the early 20th century.\nTaxonomy.\n\"P.eximius\" (Eastern Rosella) is located under the genus \"Platycercus\" and subgenus \"Violania\" along with other three species members: \"P.venustus\" (Northern Rosella), \"P.adscitus\" (Pale-headed Rosella) and \"P.icterotis\" (Western Rosella). An early analysis of rosella phylogeny stated that the taxa of eastern rosella and pale-headed rosella are most closely related to each other compared to the other two rosella species. Then, the hybrids of the two taxa have been recorded in northeastern New South Wales and southeastern Queensland, as both species have been recorded habituating in the same ecological area ranges, differ from the other two species However, a mitochondrial study published in 2017 found that the eastern rosella was the earlier offshoot of the lineage that split into the pale-headed and northern rosellas and those non-sister taxa were hence able to hybridize.\nThe three subspecies of eastern rosella are:\nDescription.\nThe length of eastern rosella is . Its cheeks are white, and it has a red colored head. The beak is white, and the irises are brown. Its upper breast is red, and its lower breast is yellow and fades to pale green over the abdomen. The black feathers on the back and shoulders have yellowish and greenish margins which gives the scalloped look that differs between the sexes and subspecies. Moreover, the wings and lateral tail feathers are bluish while the tail is dark green. Meanwhile, their legs are grey. For the females, it is the same with males which is duller in coloration and has an underwing stripe, but is not present in the adult male. The colour of their young is duller than the females and has an underwing stripe.\nDistribution in New Zealand.\nThe eastern rosella (\"Platycercus eximius\") has become naturalised in New Zealand. Its first introduction occurred around 1910, when a small shipment of eastern rosellas, as well as a few crimson rosellas (\"P. elegans\"), was prohibited entry into New Zealand by the Customs Department. The shipment was released off Otago Heads by the ship returning to Sydney. There were approximately 12 birds escaped in Dunedin when their cages were damaged in a gale.\nBy the 1970s, the population of eastern rosella had become well-established throughout Auckland, Northland, and the far north, extending into western Waikato as far south as Kawhia and Te K\u016biti, and east to the Coromandel Peninsula. The species also seen in the Wellington-Hutt Valley Region, and also started colonizing the foothills of the Tararua Range, extending east to Eket\u0101huna, and west to \u014ctaki by 1985. Sightings also have been reported in the areas like New Plymouth, Taup\u014d, Gisborne, Tiritea, Banks Peninsula, Nelson area, and Stewart Island. In Otago which located in the South Island, the eastern rosella population has remained relatively small, in contrast to North Island populations, which have widely distributed and currently covering most of the Island. On top of that, it has been reported that the meta-population of eastern rosella in New Zealand arose from three main sites of establishment: Dunedin, Auckland, and Wellington.\nDistribution in Otago.\nEastern rosellas were well-distributed in Dunedin by the 1930s, and between 1940s and 1950s they had been sighted across Otago. However, from 1950 to 1970s, the sightings of eastern rosella in Otago decreased, and the population was reported to be in decline. The decrease of population was attributed to the poisoning of rabbits with strychnine and grain, and also due to manmade traps for aviaries. Since the 1980s, there has been an increase in sightings of the species, which reflects a recovery of the eastern rosella population around Dunedin.\nDistribution in Auckland.\nIn 1960s, eastern rosellas mainly spread across the mid until the upper of Northland areas. Then, by 1970s this species have been reported to spread around Waikato, followed by Coromandel, the Bay of Plenty and Taranaki. Plus, during 1975-76 the records of eastern rosella in the areas of mid-Coromandel and Waiheke Island suggest that they are most likely spread to the Coromandel Peninsula from Waikato. Plus, during the early colonisation in Taranaki, this species was more commonly seen in Waikato compared to Manawat\u016b, which suggests that the eastern rosella population in Taranaki expanded southward from Auckland, with recent observations that shows a continuous presence in the western North Island.\nDistribution in Wellington.\nThe increase in the population of eastern rosella in Wellington led to further spread into northern Wellington, Manawat\u016b and Waitapa, which was reflected by their establishment and common sightings. However, in Kapiti and Mana Islands, there were no species of eastern rosella that has been sighted. There is a wild population around the Waikanae area, breeding sites especially near the beach in bush areas.\nHabitat.\nGenerally, eastern rosella prefer living in lower lands. In New Zealand, they occupy along the edges or remnant patches in open woodland and forest areas, surrounding the shelter belts, gumlands, and also in orchards. Moreover, eastern rosella are frequently observed in cultivated exotic crops and town areas. In more urban areas, the birds prefer inhabiting well-maintained lawns such as at the gardens and golf courses. Throughout Australia and New Zealand, eastern rosella favour open areas and agricultural lands.\nDiet and foraging behaviour.\nBeing an arboreal bird, the eastern rosella mostly feed on grass seeds, buds, flowers, nectars, fruits, as well as insects and their larvae. Their diet composed wide range of food, and it was outlined that eastern rosella feeds on 50 different plant species as well as 15 species of animals, including a wide range of on-ground food items. As eastern Rosellas forage across variety of food types, they are capable of having numerous of foraging positions or more likely to be an ambidextrous. Across these varied diets, it includes both native and non-native plant species in New Zealand such as eucalypts (\"Eucalyptus\" spp.), ngaio (\"Myoporum laetum\"), willow (\"Salix\" spp.), poplar (\"Populus\" spp.), and karaka (\"Corynocarpus laevigatus\"). Nevertheless, foraging on these food resources expose eastern rosella to harmful compounds such as toxins, which are being produced in the plants as their defence mechanisms. Despite having the ability to avoid food which contains high level of toxins, there is still a measurable concentration of toxins in the diet of Eastern Rosella. This appears to be a trade off between meeting their nutritional needs through the plants while encountering those harmful compounds. Eastern rosella consumption of non-food substance like charcoal, or a type of geophagy, often relates to immobilising the toxic compounds such as phenol, while enabling the process the absorption and digestion of protein at the same time.\nBreeding.\nIn Australia, eastern rosella usually breeds from August to January\u2013February. As eastern rosella is known as a cavity nester, they often build their nests mainly in the hollows of tree trunks, limbs, fallen logs or tree stumps, gateposts, and nest boxes. Occasionally, they also nest in other locations like wall cavities in buildings as well as rabbit burrows. Female eastern rosella will lay 5 to 6 eggs on average, at intervals of 1 to 3 days. The eggs are usually laid in mid-November and mid-December and soon after they are laid, they will be incubated for about 18 to 22 days, until they reach the fledging period, which happens about 30 to 33 days. The fledging period usually begins in early December and ends in early February. Usually, female eastern rosellas are said to lay two broods, with up to twelve offspring in every season.\nBreeding success in urban areas.\nIn urban areas, eastern rosella were reported to face higher disturbances from other cavity-nesting birds, that leads them to infrequently visit to their nests, for instance, in the form of nest boxes. Less frequent of nests visits are often relates to higher predation rate, thus contributing to higher nest failures and lower breeding success. The rate of nest attendance is also influenced by the diet of the young. Other than predation rates, lower nest visitations could be explained by the ability of eastern rosella to feed on many food items during each visit, before returning to their young and transferring the partially ingested food.\nNevertheless, the presence of additional nesting sites could support the spread of the eastern rosella population and their establishment in urban areas. When provided with additional artificial nesting boxes over multiple period of breeding seasons, eastern rosellas were observed to occupy more of these particular nesting sites. Availability of nesting boxes could help this species to compete with the introduced common myna.\nNesting.\nThe characteristic of eastern rosella as a cavity nester contributes to its successful breeding, as they will minimize the amount of energy they spend while building their nest and thermoregulation activity. Cavity-nesting tends to result in a bigger clutch size and less predator threats. Nevertheless, being an introduced species in New Zealand, the establishment of eastern rosella as a cavity nester affects the native cavity-nesting species as the distribution of these types of species depends on the availability of nest sites. Presently, eastern rosella and other widely distributed cavity-nesting species in New Zealand such as common myna (\"Acridotheres tristis\") appear to be a threat to native ones, due to expansion and geographical distribution. In Northland of New Zealand, eastern rosella was outlined as the most distributed parrot, which results in a great competition in nest cavities and food resources with k\u0101k\u0101riki species. Moreover, from the 1950s to 1960s, the reduction in the number of yellow-crowned parakeet (\"Cyanoramphus aurlceps\") that habituated in some forests in the Northlands was said to be the result of the arrival of eastern rosella in that particular area which outcompete the nesting sites and food resources.\nWhen choosing a suitable location to breed, the presence of water sources close to the nesting site is one of the preferences for eastern rosella. Being near the water sources is advantageous for them not only to ease them to get access to water, but also to minimize their energy expenditure and time spent searching for it. In addition, the eastern rosella prefers nesting in areas with presence of other accessible nests, as this increases the probability of finding the right breeding site. The availability of several nests in the same area serves as alternatives, making it easier for them to rebuild a new nest if the old one is damaged or taken over. Additionally, having a few unutilized nests around decreases the chance of the predator locating the right nest. However, poor alternative nesting sites of eastern rosella like burrows, gate posts and tree stumps which are usually located in lower areas, do expose themselves to flooding. This affects the growth of their chicks and sometimes could lead to death.\nHowever, when the nests are too close in proximity from one breeding pair to another, there is a high chance that it leads to agonistic interactions and fights. Hence, rosellas will defend zone around their nests, for example including nearby trees to make sure that no other pairs settled within the particular area. It has been found that dominant female eastern rosellas would destroy the subordinate females' eggs to avoid them from having a successful breeding.\nChicks behaviour.\nThe nestling period of eastern rosella chicks is quite short, which followed by fledging period after 28 to 30 days, and become fully independent between 45 and 60 days post-hatching. Approaching the last quarter of nestling period, approximately 20 days after hatching, the chicks are able to stand and exhibit well-coordinated perching. By the end of the nestling period, they can walk properly on even surfaces and perform other activities such as climbing, grooming, and flapping their wings. However, their activities are limited and influenced by the surroundings of the nests.\nAt the beginning of the fledging period, around 29 to 35 days post-hatching, the locomotion of young eastern rosellas develops rapidly. This portrays in the well-performed climbing activity and their ability in turning around from an elevated spot. They also began to practice flying. The development of these activities also have observed for other chicks with different bird species. After improving locomotion, the chicks then further improved to be able to preen their feathers properly, and eventually manage to handle items using their both upper and lower mandibles.\nFrom day 36 onwards, the birds were considered to be independent, and continue to improve their motor skills related to feeding behaviour, for example in handling items with their beaks and feet. They also manage to perform other activities related to body maintenance, excluding bathing. In terms of activity related to feeding behaviour, it is necessary for the chicks to do it perfectly, not only for practice, but also would help them under stress conditions, such as when identifying edible items.\nSpatial dynamics.\nEastern rosella often rest during the day, and scattering among the trees. They often fly in groups of 10 to 20 birds, among the trees up to three acres. In the afternoon, eastern rosellas will usually transition from resting period to maintenance period, performing activities such as preening and urinating. Then, they often fly to feeding sites to forage in a pair, resulting to noticeable wider spacing among small groups within the larger flock. During feeding, aggression could be seen among eastern rosella as they compete for food. There are also alarms ranging from mild level, where they simply keep only their heads up without moving their bodies, to the high level or increase in alarm which usually results in a fight.\nIn the evening, eastern rosella would fly to their roosting areas, with the presence of leading alarm. The feeding flocks of eastern rosella then resulting in a bigger number. At night, they then shift from feeding mode to mainly maintenance mode. Plus, calling activity peaks during the night, before they settle down with resting mode. Throughout the night, eastern rosellas exhibit least activity until the morning arrives. As soon as the sun comes out, they fly in small groups and spread among the trees to forage."}
{"id": "732241", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732241", "title": "Djenne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732243", "revid": "45098823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732243", "title": "Jimmies", "text": ""}
{"id": "732244", "revid": "10956882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732244", "title": "Hard", "text": "Hard means something that is difficult to do. It may also refer to:"}
{"id": "732245", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732245", "title": "Sampa Chart", "text": ""}
{"id": "732247", "revid": "2003421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732247", "title": "List of cathedrals in Ireland", "text": "This article lists the current and former cathedrals of the main Christian churches in Ireland. Since the main denominations are organised on an all-Ireland basis, this article includes information about both jurisdictions: Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.\nOverview.\nIt is a commonly held perception that the term 'cathedral' may be applied to any particularly large or grand church. Whilst many cathedrals may be such, this is due to their ecclesiastical status (such a church is grand because it is a cathedral, rather than it being a cathedral because of its grandeur). A cathedral may therefore be a smaller building, particularly where they exist in sparser or poorer communities. Modern cathedrals may lack the grandeur of former times, focussing on the functional aspect of a place of worship, though it should be borne in mind that many of the grand and ancient cathedrals of today were originally built to a much smaller plan, and have been successively extended and rebuilt over the centuries. Some cathedrals were purpose-built as such, whilst others were formerly parochial, or parish churches, subsequently promoted in status due to ecclesiastical requirements such as periodic diocesan reorganisation.\nEssentially, a cathedral church is a Christian place of worship that is the chief, or 'mother' church of an episcopal see and is distinguished as such by being the location for the \"cathedra\" or bishop's seat. Strictly speaking therefore, only those Christian denominations with an Episcopal polity possess cathedrals. However, the label 'cathedral' remains in common parlance for notable churches which were formerly part of an episcopal denomination, such as may be the case with some Scottish churches which are now within the Presbyterian Church of Scotland (see List of cathedrals in Scotland). In addition, former cathedrals which may now be in a ruined state, retain their nominal status.\nThe following list comprises, for the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, all locations of a current cathedral church, or former cathedral church, as well as those locations where no trace remains of the structure, indeed where the precise location is no longer known.\nAlso included are those structures or sites of intended cathedrals as well as pro-cathedrals (churches serving as an interim cathedral), for instance, whilst a permanent cathedral is acquired, or (as a co-cathedral where the diocesan demographics/geography requires the bishop's seat to be shared with a building in an alternate location).\nThe inclusion of the entire island of Ireland is strictly for ecclesiastical reasons. Northern Ireland is represented because, although it politically comprises part of the United Kingdom, ecclesiastically the island comprises a single geographically based unit.\nIn the list which follows the cathedrals are listed by denomination and (where applicable) denominational hierarchy. Disused establishments are listed separately.\nThe geographical co-ordinates provided are sourced from details provided by Ordnance Survey Ireland.\nTerms not covered in the above preamble include \"translated\", which is the move of a bishop's seat from one location to another, moving cathedral status from the former church and bestowing it on the destination church, such as may occur in a diocesan or provincial re-organisation.\nListing of establishments.\nFormer cathedrals.\nWith some exceptions, these former cathedrals were established prior to the Reformation in Ireland and the subsequent transfer of Church assets to the Established church. Most had ceased to be cathedrals prior to the establishment of the Church of Ireland."}
{"id": "732248", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732248", "title": "Grant nicholas", "text": ""}
{"id": "732249", "revid": "9664539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732249", "title": "Clive King", "text": "David Clive King (28 April 1924 \u2013 10 July 2018) was an English author best known for his children's book \"Stig of the Dump\" (1963). He served in the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve in the last years of the Second World War and then worked for the British Council in a wide range of overseas postings from which he later drew inspiration for some of his novels.\nLife and career.\nClive King was born in Richmond, then in Surrey, on 28 April 1924 and grew up in Ash in Kent. He was educated at the King's School, Rochester from 1933 to 1941 and then at Downing College, Cambridge, from 1941 to 1943, graduating with a BA in English. From 1943 to 1946 he served as a sub-lieutenant in the Royal Navy Volunteer Reserve, which took him to the Arctic, India, Ceylon (now Sri Lanka (where he tried to learn Tamil but didn\u2032t get very far), Australia, Malaya (now Malaysia) and Japan, where he saw the then-recent devastation of Hiroshima.\nAfter leaving the Reserve, King began working for the British Council and was posted to Amsterdam as an administrative officer (1948\u201350). Subsequent postings for the British Council included Belfast, as a staff welfare officer (1950\u201351); Aleppo, as a lecturer (1951\u201354); Damascus, as a visiting professor at the university (1954\u201355); Beirut, as lecturer and director of studies (1960\u201366); and Madras, as an education officer (1971\u201373). He also served as a warden for East Sussex County Council from 1955 to 1960. He attended the School of Oriental and African Studies in London from 1966 to 1967, then served as an education adviser for the East Pakistan Education Centre in Dhaka from 1967 to 1971.\nClive King started writing when he was a child. He once stated that his first story was a script for a Western film. He had articles published in both his school and college magazines before his first book, \"Hamid of Aleppo\", was published by Macmillan &amp; Co. of New York in 1958. He wrote \"The Town that Went South\" (1959), \"Stig of the Dump\" (1963) and \"The 22 Letters\" (1966) before deciding to become a full-time writer in 1973. He went on to write another 20 novels between 1972 and 2008, but he is probably best known for \"Stig of the Dump\", which has twice been adapted for television and continues to be taught in British schools.\nAs a popular children's author King was invited to summer camps for members of the Puffin Book Club Holidays (predecessor to ATE Superweeks), along with other authors such as Ian Serraillier and Joan Aiken.\nKing was married twice, had three children and lived in Thurlton, Norfolk.\nInfluence.\nClive King acknowledged the influence of his itinerant career on his writing: \"Each of the things which I have written has been inspired by a particular place which I have visited or lived in. The settings are always as authentic as possible and they determine the action.\" This influence is noticeable in the settings of \"The Night The Water Came\" (relief operations on a tropical island), \"Snakes and Snakes\" (India) and \"The 22 Letters\" (the Middle East).\n\"Hamid of Aleppo\".\n\"Hamid of Aleppo\" (1958), illustrated by Giovannetti, follows the adventures of a Syrian Golden Hamster. Hamid has no idea what sort of creature he is. The camel tells him he is a desert rat; the tortoise calls him a fat cat without a tail. Hamid is busy digging new tunnels in his home in the side of a hill where he unearths many Things. When Hamid leaves his tunnel home he brings with him many of the Things he has found there. After many travels and encounters with other wayfarers, Hamid digs a tunnel which brings him to the surface in the office of the Director of a Museum, who explains to Hamid that he is a Syrian Golden Hamster and that his Things are relics of antiquity. Hamid the Syrian Golden Hamster donates his Things to the Museum and is rewarded.\n\"Stig of the Dump\".\n\"Stig of the Dump\" (1963), illustrated by Edward Ardizzone, follows the adventures of a boy who discovers a Stone-Age cave-dweller living at the bottom of a disused chalk pit in Kent that has been used as an unofficial rubbish dump. The concept does not explicitly involve any of the common fantasy devices such as timeslip or magic. The book has been reprinted many times and has been adapted for television twice.\n\"The 22 Letters\".\n\"The 22 Letters\" (1966), illustrated by Richard Kennedy, was the 250th title published by Puffin Books. Set in the eastern Mediterranean world of the 15th century BC, the story follows the adventures of the three sons of a Phoenician master builder through three loosely linked stories in which they travel to the Sinai Peninsula, to the court of King Minos in Crete and to Ugarit. They return and save their city from invasion with the help of the three inventions they have found: celestial navigation, horsemanship and alphabetic writing. In its time \"The 22 Letters\" was considered, at over 300 pages, to be very long for a children's book, although its scholarship and scope were admired."}
{"id": "732250", "revid": "16543557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732250", "title": "Japanes Engrish", "text": ""}
{"id": "732252", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732252", "title": "Noether current", "text": ""}
{"id": "732253", "revid": "16543560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732253", "title": "Japanese Engrish", "text": ""}
{"id": "732254", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732254", "title": "Palmers college", "text": ""}
{"id": "732255", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732255", "title": "Vice (disambiguation)", "text": "Vice is the opposite of virtue.\nVice may also refer to:"}
{"id": "732256", "revid": "31737083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732256", "title": "South African springhare", "text": "The South African springhare (Pedetes capensis) () is a medium-sized terrestrial and burrowing rodent. Despite the name, it is not a hare. It is one of two extant species in the genus \"Pedetes\", and is native to southern Africa. Formerly, the genus was considered monotypic and the East African springhare (\"P. surdaster\") was included in \"P. capensis\".\nSpringhares live throughout semi-arid areas in southern Africa, preferentially in sandy plains and pans with short grasses. In agricultural areas, springhares can be considered a pest due to their destructive feeding on crops. However, they are not currently considered under an impending risk of extinction.\nEtymology and taxonomy.\nThe springhare was named in English by William John Burchell in 1822, who derived \"springhare\" from the Afrikaans name . The generic name \"Pedetes\" comes from the Greek (Pidit\u00e9s), meaning \"leaper or dancer\". The specific name \"capensis\", a Latin word meaning \"of the Cape\", refers to the Cape of Good Hope and Cape Province, the species' type locality.\nOriginally named as \"Yerbua capensis\" by Johann Reinhold Forster in 1778, using a genus that was applied to kangaroos in the previous year by Eberhard August Wilhelm von Zimmermann, the species (at the time considered monotypic, since the East African springhare was not identified until 1902) was renamed to \"Dipus cafer\" by Johann Friedrich Gmelin in 1788, placing it in the jerboa family. The genus \"Pedetes\" was created by Caroli Illigeri in 1811, when the species was renamed \"Pedetes cafer\"; contemporary naturalists would recognize the precedence of the specific name \"capensis\" and corrected the species to \"P. capensis\" in the early 19th century.\nCharacteristics.\nThe springhare resembles a small kangaroo with well-developed hind legs, short front legs, and a long tail which comprises half of its body length. As well as a long tail, springhares have relatively large eyes and ears. Adults can attain in length (including the tail) and weigh an average of . Similar to kangaroos, they are also saltatorial animals who use their tails for balance. Springhares are reported to be able to make hops of and leaps of .\nSpringhares have long, soft fur, which shortens around the legs, heads, and ears. The colour of this mammal varies from a reddish-brown on its upperparts to an off-white belly and a black tip on the tail. Sometimes the ear tips are also black. Young springhares have finer and fluffier fur and usually have black patches of fur under their hind feet and in a patch of black under their tail base.\nSpringhares have a different number of toes on their forelegs and hindlegs. Their short forelegs have five digits, each ending in a long, sharp, curved claw, which can be 16 millimetres long. their long hindlegs have four digits, three of which are visibly developed and equipped with a strong triangular nail.\nThe oldest recorded individual was 88 months (7 years and 4 months) old.\nBiofluorescence.\nSpringhare fur is biofluorescent. Their biofluorescence is patchy, with areas important to grooming and intra-specific interactions being the most biofluorescent. Little is known about its biofluorescence, but both species of springhare are the first thoroughly documented cases of biofluorescence in an Old World eutherian mammal.\nRegeneration.\nIn a study of ear regeneration in mammals, springhares were found to have the capacity for minimal ear tissue regeneration. This regeneration is far behind to that of rabbits.\nEcology and behaviour.\nSpringhares are nocturnal animals, who forage during the night and retreat to a burrow during the day. While sleeping in their burrows, springhares sleep standing, with their head and forelimbs bent down in between their hindlegs, and their tail wrapped around their feet.\nThese animals are predated upon by a variety of predators, including humans; at least 21 species prey on springhares in the Kalahari.\nBurrowing.\nSpringhares are burrowing animals. They dig their own burrows on well-drained sandy soils, preferentially during the wet season.\nBurrows are often located near trees or shrubs, which are sparse in the typical springhare habitat. It is thought they may help with concealment as well as providing a point of reference back to the burrow. A springhare's burrow is 20\u00a0cm in diameter, may be up to 1 meter deep and up to 7 meters long. Burrows may cover an area of up to 170 m2. They usually have several entrances. Two types of entrances can be distinguished, one which is very visible thanks to the pile of sand present at the opening, and the other one which is a \"hidden\" entrance with no soil to mark its presence.\nSpringhares remain close to one of their burrow entrances while feeding and if disturbed, they return to their own burrows, ignoring other burrows in the way. Radio-tracked springhares used burrows in areas covering 0.6 to 28.5 ha.\nSpringhares tend to only reside in any given burrow for a few consecutive days at most. In a study of their burrowing activities in South Africa, they found that springhares used 4 to 27 different burrows, and most burrows (70%) were only ever used by a single springhare. Very few burrows were used by more than two animals. In the same study, they found cohabitation (two springhares using the same burrow at the same time) to be very rare. The same burrows may be used throughout generations and expanded, with new tunnels added as needed. While springhares have not been seen defending their burrows or territory, they mark the burrows with their perineal glands secretions, or by urinating at the burrow entrance, probably to warn other springhares that a specific burrow is occupied.\nSpringhares are able to plug entrances to their burrows with soil. Two plug types were distinguished. Temporary plugs formed from the inside of the burrow, probably aimed at avoiding predators entering a burrow. Permanent plugs were long (0.5 \u2013 3 m) and sometimes filled entire tunnel branches.\nThe springhare's unoccupied burrows are sometimes used for hiding during the daytime by a number of other species, including the black-footed cat and the ground pangolin.\nFeeding and foraging.\nSpringhares are herbivorous, eating a variety of plant matter, such as roots, stems, leaves, and seeds. However, springhares are picky eaters and often leave abundant plant materials behind in their feeding grounds. On occasion, springhares may feed on insects such as beetles or locusts, or even carrion.\nSpringhares feed at night and can range 150 \u2013 400 m away of one of their burrows. They may feed in large groups of up to nine individuals. In these instances, they do not display aggression or territorial behaviours.\nReproduction.\nSpringhares breed throughout the year and have a gestation period of about 77 days. The females give birth to a single young about three times a year. Moreover, females can be lactating and in the early stages of pregnancy at the same time.\nTheir ability to reproduce year-round is thought to be attributable to their highly selective diet (choosing only the best parts of the plant), their wide range of foods available to them (above and underground), and their behavioural and physical adaptations to living in arid and semi-arid conditions.\nSpringhares give birth in a burrow to a furred young of about 250 - 300 g. Springhares usually give birth to a single young, but birthing twins is known to occur. While the young remains at the burrow, the mother stops the usual behaviour of moving burrows every couple of days. She is bound to the burrow where her young is, who depends entirely on her milk. The young stays in the burrow for approximately seven weeks until they attain a body weight of approximately 1.3\u00a0kg. The extended period of parental care may help mitigate a birthrate that is, among rodents, remarkably low.\nTraditional human uses.\nSan and baTswana people both traditionally make use of springhares. Both groups of people hunt springhares, which can yield up to 1360 g (3\u00a0lb.) of meat. Aside from the meat, San people use springhare skins for a variety of uses, such as bags, mats, karosses (garments or blankets made from sewn animal skins) and hats. The tail provides sinew for sewing, and an ornamental belt that produces sounds can be made by tying springhare toes on a string."}
{"id": "732257", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732257", "title": "Brian Downey", "text": "Brian Downey may refer to:"}
{"id": "732258", "revid": "7606617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732258", "title": "Phutthamonthon", "text": "Phutthamonthon (, ; also spelled Buddha Monthon; from Sanskrit \"Buddha M\u00e1\u1e47\u1e0dala\", 'Buddha's sphere') is a Buddhist park in Salaya subdistrict of Phutthamonthon district, Nakhon Pathom province, Thailand. The park is situated just outside the western border of Bangkok. It is highlighted by a high statue of Gautama Buddha by Corrado Feroci.\nThe park was created in 1957 (the year 2500 in the Thai Buddhist Era) on the basis of an idea of Thailand's prime minister, Phibunsongkhram. The park covers an area of about 400 hectares, which in traditional Thai units is 2500 rai. Construction started 29 July 1955, and the park was inaugurated on the Vaisakh Bucha day, 13 May 1957.\nAfter a long pause, construction on the park resumed in 1976. The main Buddha statue was built after that time. Already designed in 1955 by art professor Silpa Bhirasri, the statue was cast in 1981. The Leela Attitude statue, 15.875 m high and at the centre of the park, was given the name \"Phra Si Sakkaya Thotsaphonlayan Prathan Phutthamonthon Suthat\" (, literally 'the Graceful Statue of the Shakyamuni who was of the Tenfold Power, the Presiding Buddha of the Beautiful Phutthamonthon') by King Bhumibol Adulyadej. Around the statue are sites memorialising the four main stations in the life of Buddha: his birth symbolized by seven lotus flowers, his enlightenment under the Bodhi tree, his first sermon, and his death. Another important building is the marble viharn, which contains the entire Buddhist canon engraved in 1418 marble stelas.\nIn July 2017, a group of smooth-coated otters was spotted in the park. They are believed to be descendants of the otter population that inhabited this area before it was developed into the park it is today."}
{"id": "732260", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732260", "title": "Religious segregation", "text": "Religious segregation is the separation of people according to their religion. The term has been applied to cases of religious-based segregation which occurs as a social phenomenon, as well as segregation which arises from laws, whether they are explicit or implicit.\nThe similar term, religious apartheid has also been used for situations where people are segregated based on their religion, including sociological phenomena.\nBosnia and Herzegovina.\nReligious segregation has been practiced in Bosnia and Herzegovina since the 12th century. Being historically a multi-ethnic and multi-religious nation, ethnicity and religion are interchangeable within the nation: Croatians are largely Catholic, Bosniaks are largely Muslim, and Serbs are largely Orthodox. These ethnoreligious linkages have influenced political and cultural dynamics, especially during periods of political dominance under foreign dominance where in one group would hold power over the others. Bosniak Muslims held more political influence and power under the Ottoman Empire than any other group, the Catholic Croats held power under the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and the Serbs held major political influence during the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.\nSchooling in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been segregated by religion with educational services being provided by religious groups and organizations, this practice finds its roots as far back as the Vidovdan Constitution of 1921. Religious segregation in schooling continued during Communist Yugoslavia with government intervention proving ineffective. Since 1995 with the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, the Bosnian government has agreed and maintained upon a \u201ctwo schools under one roof policy\u201d, allowing religious schooling to continue as a form of cultural protection. In 2014, Herzegovina-Neretva became the first canton to ban religious schooling.\nIndia.\nThe debate over the ban on non-Hindus entering Hindu temples began around 30 years ago when singer Yesudas, who planned to take part in a music program, was stopped at the Guruvayur Temple gate. He finally had to sing \"bhajans\" outside the temple wall. Though several temples in Kerala have signs saying non-Hindus are barred entry, few of them enforce it as strictly as Guruvayur Temple, which insists on following its distinct traditions. 'Only Orthodox Hindus are allowed\u2019, reads a signboard hanging from the Lion's Gate of the Sri Jagannath Temple in Puri. The issue has triggered many a controversy in the past and continues to arouse strong feelings even today.\nIn the past a number of dignitaries, including former prime minister Indira Gandhi, had not been allowed to enter the 12th century shrine; she was married to a Parsi, Feroze Gandhi. In 2005, Princess Mahachakri Sirindhorn of Thailand was not allowed inside the temple as she is a Buddhist.\nIn 2006, the shrine did not allow a citizen of Switzerland named Elizabeth Jigler, who had donated 17.8 million Indian rupees to the temple, because she is a Christian. Kashi Vishvanath Varanasi in Varanasi, the temple stands on the western bank of the holy river Ganga, and is one of the 12 Jyotirlingas, the holiest of Shiva temples. The most famous of the many temples in Varanasi is the one dedicated to \"Vishveswara\"\u2014Shiva as Lord of the Universe. Non-Hindus are not allowed inside the temple, although this is not always enforced. On the northern side of Vishwanath Temple is the Gyan Kupor Well. Non-Hindus are also strictly forbidden entry here.\nPartition of British India.\nThe partition of India entailed creating two countries - India and Pakistan - on the basis of religion, as demanded by Muhammad Ali Jinnah and the All India Muslim League, though not without significant opposition.\nIn the colonial Indian province of Sind, the historian Ayesha Jalal describes the actions that the All India Muslim League used in order to undermine the government of Allah Bakhsh Soomro, which stood for a united India:\nIn the few years before the partition, the Muslim League \"monetarily subsidized\" mobs that engaged in communal violence against Hindus and Sikhs in the areas of Multan, Rawalpindi, Campbellpur, Jhelum and Sargodha, as well as in the Hazara District. The Muslim League paid assassins money for every Hindu and Sikh they murdered. As such, leaders of the pro-separatist Muslim League, including Muhammad Ali Jinnah, issued no condemnation of the violence against Hindus and Sikhs in the Punjab.\nIran.\nShi'a Islam has been the state religion of Iran since the Iranian Revolution in 1979. While Judaism, Christianity, and Zoroastrianism are officially recognized and legally protected religious minorities, they are not allowed to evangelize or allow Muslim Iranians to convert to other faiths.\nOther religious minorities, such as those of the Bah\u00e1\u02bc\u00ed Faith, are not recognized by the government and thus do not have any legal protections nor the constitutional right to practice their religion. The Muslim Network for Bah\u00e1\u02bc\u00ed Rights has reported cases of Bah\u00e1\u02bc\u00ed students being expelled from university due to their religion.\nAccording to the Times Higher Education, Bah\u00e1\u02bc\u00ed educators are required to renounce their faith in order to teach in Iranian universities. Due to its heterodox beliefs, the Bah\u00e1\u02bc\u00ed faith is officially considered a heretical movement because of the Bah\u00e1\u02bc\u00ed belief that Bah\u00e1'u'll\u00e1h is a divinely ordained prophet in contradiction of the Qur'an, which asserts that Muhammad is the last and final messenger sent to mankind.\nMalaysia.\nIn 2015, Malaysian human rights activist Shafiqah Othman Hamzah noted that the practice of apartheid policies against different religions in Malaysia is institutionalised and widespread, adding that \"What we are living in Malaysia is almost no different from apartheid.\"\nMyanmar.\nThe 2012 Rakhine State riots are a series of ongoing conflicts between Rohingya Muslims and ethnic Rakhine in northern Rakhine State, Myanmar. The riots broke out after weeks of sectarian disputes and they have been condemned by most people on both sides of the conflict.\nThe immediate cause of the riots is unclear, with many commentators citing the killing of ten Burmese Muslims by ethnic Rakhine after the gang rape and murder of a Rakhine woman as the main cause.\nWhole villages have been \"decimated\". Over three hundred houses and a number of public buildings have been razed. According to Tun Khin, the President of the Burmese Rohingya Organisation UK (BROUK), as of 28 June 650 Rohingyas have been killed, 1,200 are missing, and more than 80,000 have been displaced. According to the Myanmar authorities, the violence, between ethnic Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, left 78 people dead, 87 injured, and thousands of homes destroyed. It also displaced more than 52,000 people.\nThe government has responded by imposing curfews and by deploying troops in the region. On 10 June 2012, a state of emergency was declared in Rakhine, allowing the military to participate in the administration of the region. The Burmese army and police have been accused of targeting Rohingya Muslims through mass arrests and arbitrary violence. A number of monks' organisations that played a vital role in Burma's struggle for democracy have taken measures to block any humanitarian assistance to the Rohingya community.\nIn July 2012, the Myanmar Government did not include the Rohingya minority group\u2013-classified as stateless Bengali Muslims from Bangladesh. Myanmar immigration law was amended in 1982 declared 135 indigenous ethnic races of Myanmar without the Rohingya and therefore they are not granted the indigenous rights and only small part of the people can claim Myanmar citizenship per the law.\nAccording to Amnesty International, the Muslim Rohingya people have continued to suffer from human rights violations under the Burmese junta since 1978, and many have fled to neighbouring Bangladesh as a result.\nAs of 2005, the UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) had been assisting with the repatriation of Rohingya from Bangladesh, but allegations of human rights abuses in the refugee camps have threatened this effort.\nDespite earlier efforts by the UN, the vast majority of Rohingya refugees have remained in Bangladesh, unable to return because of the regime in Myanmar. Now they face problems in Bangladesh where they do not receive support from the government. In February 2009, many Rohingya refugees were helped by Acehnese sailors in the Strait of Malacca, after 21 days at sea.\nOver the years thousands of Rohingya also have fled to Thailand. There are roughly 111,000 refugees housed in nine camps along the Thai-Myanmar border. There have been charges that groups of them have been shipped and towed out to open sea from Thailand, and left there. In February 2009, there was evidence of the Thai army towing a boatload of 190 Rohingya refugees out to sea. A group of refugees rescued by Indonesian authorities also in February 2009 told harrowing stories of being captured and beaten by the Thai military, and then abandoned at open sea. By the end of February, there were reports that of a group of five boats were towed out to open sea, of which four boats sank in a storm, and one washed up on the shore. On 12 February 2009, Thailand's prime minister Abhisit Vejjajiva said there were \"some instances\" in which Rohingya people were pushed out to sea.\n\"There are attempts, I think, to let these people drift to other shores. [...] when these practices do occur, it is done on the understanding that there is enough food and water supplied. [...] It's not clear whose work it is [...] but if I have the evidence who exactly did this I will bring them to account.\"\nNepal.\nOn the banks of the Bagmati River in Kathmandu, Nepal is a Pashupatinath Temple dedicated to Pashupatinath. This temple complex which is on the UNESCO World Heritage Sites's list since 1979 was erected anew in the 15th century by King kirat Yalamber.\nEntry into the inner courtyard is strictly monitored by the temple security, which is selective of who is allowed inside. Only practicing Hindus and Buddhists of Indian and Tibetan descendant are allowed into temple courtyard. Practicing Hindus and Buddhists of other than Nepali, Indian, Tibetan descent are not allowed into the temple complex along with other non Hindu visitors. Others can look at the main temple from adjacent side of the river.\nNorthern Ireland.\nIn Northern Ireland religious segregation has been a phenomenon which increased in many areas, particularly in the capital city of Belfast and Derry. This trend increased since the Troubles, a protracted series of conflicts and tensions between Roman Catholics and Protestants from the late 1960s to the late 2000s. Segregation does not occur everywhere. State schools are non-denominational, but many Roman Catholics send their children to Roman Catholic Maintained Schools.\nIn government housing, most people will choose to be housed within their own communities. This form of segregation is most common among lower income people who live in larger towns and cities, and areas where there have been heightened levels of violence.\nIn 2012 \"Foreign Policy\" reported: \nPakistan.\nToday, Pakistan is officially an Islamic country and defines who is and who is not a Muslim. Under these conditions, Ahmadi Muslims are declared non-Muslim by law of the land and cannot claim to be Muslim. They are not permitted to call their mosques as mosques, or meet with people with the Islamic greeting of Peace. Ahmadi Muslims are excluded from government and any other high-profile positions within Pakistan unless they sign a covenant stating themselves to be non-Muslim. There have been cases when the Ahmadi Muslims have been expelled from schools, colleges and universities, for being Ahmadi Muslim. Once the entire population of Rabwah, the Pakistani headquarters of Ahmadi Muslims was charged under Anti-Ahmadiyya laws.\nPakistan also houses some holy sites for Sikhism. Due to security concerns, Muslims are not allowed in the Samadhi of Ranjit Singh at Lahore fort.\nSaudi Arabia.\nPrior to 1 March 2004, the official Saudi government website stated that Jews were forbidden from entering the country; however, this practice was not enforced.\nIn Mecca, only Muslims are allowed, while non-Muslims may not enter or pass through. Attempting to enter Mecca as a non-Muslim can result in penalties such as a fine; being in Mecca as a non-Muslim can result in deportation.\nIn Medina, non-Muslims are not allowed to enter Nabawi Square, where the Al-Masjid Al-Nabawi is located."}
{"id": "732261", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732261", "title": "Garth Marenghi's Darkplace", "text": "Garth Marenghi's Darkplace is a British horror parody television series created by Richard Ayoade and Matthew Holness for Channel 4. The show focuses on fictional horror author Garth Marenghi (played by Holness) and his publisher Dean Learner (played by Ayoade), characters who originated in the stage show \"Garth Marenghi's Fright Knight\".\nThe series is presented as a special release of the fictional television series \"Darkplace\". Within the reality of the show, \"Darkplace\" was produced in the 1980s for Channel 4, but never broadcast anywhere but Peru, eventually becoming a lost series. Saved footage has recently resurfaced, with Marenghi republishing with the intent of gaining interest from a modern audience. The \"original footage\" of the show is intercut or bookended with commentary from many of the \"original\" cast, where characters such as Marenghi and Learner reflect on what it was like to make the show. \"Darkplace\" parodies the fashion, special effects, production gaffes, and music of low-budget '80s television, as well as the arrogant attitude of certain writers and performers.\n\"Darkplace\" was broadcast in a late-night timeslot, with very little advertising, and met with poor viewing figures. It built up a significant internet following, leading Channel 4 to repeat the series and produce a DVD release. In 2005, Channel 4's Film4 asked Holness and Ayoade to write a script for a film adaptation, but the project never saw further development.\nThe show was later broadcast in the United States on the Sci-Fi Channel and Adult Swim and is available to stream on Peacock.\nShow overview.\nThe spoof comedy series, released in 2004, lampoons 1980s television drama, particularly horror, sci-fi, and \"the rampant egotism of self-appointed 'mastermind' authors\". The show presents \"Garth Marenghi's Darkplace\" as though it were a real, low-budget television series produced in the 1980s and is now getting its first screening, framed as part of a director's commentary series. \"Darkplace\"s fictional show-within-a-show includes deliberately poor production and special effects, sub-par acting, choppy editing and storylines that are \"severely flawed and open-ended\". This is interspersed with present-day interviews with the cast.\nThe series' fictional premise is that some time in the 1980s, bestselling horror author Garth Marenghi and his publisher/publicist, Dean Learner, made their own low-budget television series with a single intent: \"to change the evolutionary course of Man over a series of half-hour episodes.\" Set in Darkplace Hospital, \"over the very gates of Hell\", in Romford, London, \"Garth Marenghi's Darkplace\" shows the adventures of Dr. Rick Dagless, M.D., as he fights the forces of darkness while simultaneously coping with the pressures of \"day-to-day admin\". Within this fictional context, Marenghi wrote 63 teleplays from which 50 shows were produced (in the commentary, he mentions that there were 67 episodes at one point, though it may have been intentional by Holness to show discontinuity); however, Channel 4 was eventually forced to reject the show due to its \"radicality\", though Marenghi also cites possible government suppression: \"MI8, which is actually three levels above MI6, pulled the plug. And they did it because I knew the truth.\" In 2004, due to the \"worst artistic drought in broadcast history\", Channel 4 decided to air six of the original episodes.\nThe makers of \"Darkplace\" endeavoured to make the show seem authentic. From \"the retro Channel 4 logo at the start to the distortion of the analogue music track at the start of scenes\", \"the fashion, ... the texture of film stock\", \"[the] deliberately poor continuity, cheesy lines, wooden acting and cheap special effects\"; it is delivered \"in such a pitch perfect way you can't help but laugh\". Also included are \"present-day interviews\", in which Marenghi, Learner, and their co-star Todd Rivers comment on the show-within-the-show. The interview segments further reveal the delusional and self-absorbed attitudes of Marenghi and Learner.\nAs with promotion for their earlier Perrier Award-winning stage show, the official website speaks of Garth Marenghi, and other characters as though they were real people, while making no mention of the real actors. Press releases also contained \"realistic looking fake back stories for Marenghi and the other characters instead of making any mention of what the real cast have appeared in\", and an article by \"Garth Marenghi\" appeared in \"The Daily Telegraph\" discussing his \"groundbreaking television series\". \"More than a few\" people and media outlets were caught out by this fictional framing.\nThe show's musical soundtrack, ostensibly composed by \"Stig Baasvik\" (but with a further credit stating that it is \"based on melodies whistled by Garth Marenghi\") parodies the same subjects as the writing, and gained its actual composer, Andrew Hewitt, a BAFTA Nomination as Best New Composer for Film and T.V. (2004).\nCharacters.\nNoel Fielding appears as a mutant \"Ape-oid\" in Episode 4, \"The Apes of Wrath\".\nEpisodes.\nThis list is ordered by the original air dates on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom.\nReception.\nRotten Tomatoes gives the series an 87% rating based on reviews from 23 critics, with an average rating of 6.7/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"The short-lived \"Garth Marenghi's Darkplace\" is strangely brilliant, even while buried under its own layers of satire.\"\nBroadcasts.\n\"Darkplace\" originally aired in 2004. Only one series was produced. There is media speculation that the \"average\" or \"poor\" viewing figures led Channel 4 to decide against commissioning a second series. Channel 4 started a re-run of the series in October 2006 and released the show on DVD in the same month, while allowing the show to be re-broadcast on Virgin Media's On-demand service. In 2005, it was reported that the channel's cinema division, Film Four, had asked Holness and Ayoade to write a script for a film version of their programme.\nOn 27 July 2006, \"Darkplace\" made its U.S. debut on the Sci-Fi Channel.\nThe series had a spin-off, the spoof chat show \"Man to Man with Dean Learner\", which began on 20 October 2006 on Channel 4. Dean's first guest was Garth Marenghi. During the interview with Garth a clip from the supposedly forthcoming movie, \"War of the Wasps\", is shown, again featuring Dean Learner and his acting ability. Marenghi would also appear on the final episode of the series, which featured a clip from a video nasty that Garth and Dean had supposedly produced, which featured cameos from various \"Darkplace\" cast members.\n \"Darkplace\" is available to watch on All 4 (Channel 4's free streaming service) and BritBox, and was screened on UK Gold in January 2016. In the United States it is available on Amazon Prime and Pluto TV.\nHome media.\nThe complete series was released on DVD (PAL, region 2 only) on 16 October 2006, including the following special features:\nThe cover of the DVD also features a play on the DVD logo, which instead reads \"DEANVD\".\nHolness and Ayoade reprise their roles as Garth and Dean in \"Man to Man with Dean Learner\", which is also available on DVD."}
{"id": "732262", "revid": "37052726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732262", "title": "Oem", "text": ""}
{"id": "732263", "revid": "62", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732263", "title": "Acad\u00e9mie des sciences", "text": ""}
{"id": "732264", "revid": "35107032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732264", "title": "6Music", "text": ""}
{"id": "732266", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732266", "title": "Institut de France", "text": "The ; ) is a French learned society, grouping five , including the . It was established in 1795 at the direction of the National Convention. Located on the Quai de Conti in the 6th arrondissement of Paris, the institute manages approximately 1,000 foundations, as well as museums and ch\u00e2teaux open for visit. It also awards prizes and subsidies, which amounted to a total of over \u20ac27\u00a0million per year in 2017. Most of these prizes are awarded by the institute on the recommendation of the .\nHistory.\nThe building was originally constructed as the Coll\u00e8ge des Quatre-Nations by Cardinal Mazarin, as a school for students from new provinces attached to France under Louis XIV. The inscription over the fa\u00e7ade reads \"JUL. MAZARIN S.R.E. CARD BASILICAM ET GYMNAS F.C.A M.D.C.LXI\", attesting that Mazarin ordered its construction in 1661.\nThe was established on 25 October 1795, by the National Convention.\nOn 1 January 2018, Xavier Darcos took office as the 's chancellor. Elected in 2017 to succeed Gabriel de Broglie, he was reelected in 2020. The chancellor acts as the institute's secretary general, whilst the organisation itself is placed under the protection of the president of the republic.\nInfluence.\nThe Royal Society of Canada, initiated in 1882, was modeled after the and the Royal Society of London.\nThe Lebanese Academy of Sciences, known officially by its French name \"Acad\u00e9mie des Sciences du Liban\" (ASL), is broadly fashioned after the French Academy of Sciences, with which it continues to develop joint programmes."}
{"id": "732267", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732267", "title": "Komitas", "text": "Soghomon Soghomonian, ordained and commonly known as Komitas (; 22 October 1935), was an Ottoman-Armenian priest, musicologist, composer, arranger, singer, and choirmaster, who is considered the founder of the Armenian national school of music. He is recognized as one of the pioneers of ethnomusicology.\nOrphaned at a young age, Komitas was taken to Etchmiadzin, Armenia's religious center, where he received education at the Gevorgian Seminary. Following his ordination as vardapet (celibate priest) in 1895, he studied music at the Frederick William University in Berlin. He thereafter \"used his Western training to build a national tradition\". He collected and transcribed over 3,000 pieces of Armenian folk music, more than half of which were subsequently lost and only around 1,200 are now extant. Besides Armenian folk songs, he also showed interest in other cultures and in 1903 published the first-ever collection of Kurdish folk songs titled \"Kurdish melodies\". His choir presented Armenian music in many European cities, earning the praise of Claude Debussy, among others. Komitas settled in Constantinople in 1910 to escape mistreatment by ultra-conservative clergymen at Etchmiadzin and to introduce Armenian folk music to wider audiences. He was widely embraced by Armenian communities, while Arshag Chobanian called him the \"savior of Armenian music\".\nDuring the Armenian genocide\u2014along with hundreds of other Armenian intellectuals\u2014Komitas was arrested and deported to a prison camp in April 1915 by the Ottoman government. He was soon released under unclear circumstances and, having witnessed indiscriminate cruelty and relentless massacres of other Armenians by the Ottoman Turks, Komitas experienced a mental breakdown and developed a severe case of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The widespread hostile environment in Constantinople and reports of mass-scale Armenian death marches and massacres that reached him further worsened his fragile mental state. He was first placed in a Turkish military-operated hospital until 1919 and then transferred to psychiatric hospitals in Paris, where he spent the last years of his life in agony. Komitas is widely seen as a martyr of the genocide and has been depicted as one of the main symbols of the Armenian Genocide in art. Collection of Works of the Composer Komitas Vardapet is included to UNESCO Memory of the World Register.\nBiography.\nChildhood (1869\u201381).\nKomitas was born Soghomon Soghomonian in K\u00fctahya, H\u00fcdavendig\u00e2r (Bursa) Vilayet, Ottoman Empire on 26 September (8 October in New Style) 1869 to Armenian parents Kevork and Takuhi. According to his autobiographical sketches, his parents' ancestors moved to western Anatolia from the Tsghna village in Nakhichevan's Goghtn province at the turn of the century. His family only spoke Turkish due to restrictions by the Ottoman government. Soghomon was their only child. He was baptized three days after his birth. His mother was originally from Bursa and was sixteen at the time of his birth. People who knew her described her as melancholic, while his father was a cheerful person; but both were interested in music. She died in March 1870, just six months after giving birth to him. Her death left deep scars on him, whose earliest poems were devoted to her. Thereafter, according to different sources, either his father's sister-in-law or his paternal grandmother, Mariam, looked after him.\nIn 1880, four years after he finished primary school in K\u00fctahya, Soghomon was sent by his father to Bursa to continue his education. He possibly stayed with his maternal grandparents who lived in the city. He was sent back to K\u00fctahya four months later, following the death of his father who had become an alcoholic. Although Soghomon was adopted by his paternal uncle Harutyun, his \"familiar and social structure had collapsed.\" A childhood friend described him as \"virtually homeless.\" He was completely deprived of paternal care and was \"placed in circumstances that made him vulnerable to the mental illness he suffered later in life\".\nEtchmiadzin (1881\u201395).\nHis life took a radical turn in the fall of 1881. In September, the twelve-year-old Soghomon was taken to Etchmiadzin by Kevork Vartabed Tertsagyan, the local Armenian bishop, who was asked by the Holy See of Etchmiadzin to find an orphan boy with good singing voice to be enrolled in the prestigious Gevorgian Seminary. On 1 October 1881, Komitas was introduced to Catholicos Gevorg IV, who was disappointed with his lack of knowledge of Armenian, but was so impressed with his singing talent that he often asked Komitas to sing for visitors. After an unfortunate childhood, Komitas found \"emotional and intellectual stability\" in the seminary.\nBetween 1881 and 1910, Komitas was mainly based in Etchmiadzin, although he did spend a significant time in Europe. During his first year at the seminary, Komitas learned the Armenian music notation (khaz) system based on ancient neumes developed earlier in the 19th century by Hampartsoum Limondjian and his students. He gradually discovered a great passion for music and started writing down songs sung by Armenian villagers near Etchmiadzin, who affectionately called him \"Notaji Vardapet\", meaning \"the note-taking priest\".\nIn the early 1890s, Komitas made his first attempts to write music for the poems of Khachatur Abovian, Hovhannes Hovhannisyan, Avetik Isahakyan (his younger classmate) and others. In 1891, the \"Ararat\" magazine (the Holy See's official newspaper) published his \"National Anthem\" (\u0531\u0566\u0563\u0561\u0575\u056b\u0576 \u0555\u0580\u0570\u0576\u0565\u0580\u0563, lyrics by seminary student A. Tashjian) for polyphonic choirs. He finished the seminary in 1893, became a music teacher and was appointed the choirmaster of the Etchmiadzin Cathedral, Armenia's mother church.\nHis earliest major influence was Kristapor Kara-Murza, who taught at the seminary only one year, in 1892. Kara-Murza composed and organized performances of European music for schoolchildren throughout Armenian-populated areas for educational purposes. And although Komitas criticized his works as not authentically Armenian, Kara-Murza was the person who taught Komitas the polyphonic choral structure around which he built his musical achievements.\nIn 1894, Soghomon was ordained hieromonk (\u056f\u0578\u0582\u057d\u0561\u056f\u0580\u0578\u0576 \u0561\u0562\u0565\u0572\u0561) and given the name of the 7th-century poet and musician Catholicos Komitas. In February 1895, he was ordained vardapet (celibate priest) and became thereafter known as Komitas Vardapet. In the same year, his first collection of transcribed folk music, \"The Songs of Agn\" (\u0547\u0561\u0580 \u0531\u056f\u0576\u0561 \u056a\u0578\u0572\u0578\u057e\u0580\u0564\u0561\u056f\u0561\u0576 \u0565\u0580\u0563\u0565\u0580\u056b), was completed, which included 25 pieces of love songs, wedding tunes, lullabies and dances. It was disapproved by a reactionary and ultraconservative faction of the Etchmiadzin clergy, who harassed and sarcastically referred to Komitas as \"the love-singing priest\". Rumors of alleged sexual misconduct were spread, leading Komitas into experiencing an identity crisis.\nTiflis and Berlin (1895\u20131899).\nIn October 1895, Komitas left Etchmiadzin for Tiflis to study harmony under composer Makar Yekmalyan, whose polyphonic rendering of Armenian liturgy is the most widely used and who became one of Komitas's most influential teachers. At the time, Tiflis was the most suitable option for Komitas as it was both relatively close to the Armenian lands and had a rectory, where he could stay. The six months Komitas spent with Yekmalyan deepened his understanding of European harmonic principles and laid the groundwork for his further education in European conservatories. As Komitas prepared for entrance exams, the wealthy Armenian oil explorer Alexander Mantashev agreed to pay 1,800 rubles for his three-year tuition at the request of Catholicos Mkrtich Khrimian.\nKomitas arrived in Berlin in early June 1896 without having been accepted by any university. A group of Armenian friends helped him to find an apartment. He initially took private lessons with Richard Schmidt for a few months. Afterwards, he was accepted into the prestigious Frederick William University. With little left of Mantashev's money after paying for rent and supplies, Komitas cut on food, having one or no meal each day. However, this did not distract him from education and he effectively absorbed the erudition of highly accomplished German teachers. Among them were 18th\u201319th century folk music specialist Heinrich Bellermann, Max Friedlaender, Oskar Fleischer. Fleischer in May 1899 established the Berlin chapter of the International Musical Society (), of which Komitas became an active member. He lectured there on Armenian folk music and suggested that it dated back to pre-Christian, pagan times. His studies at the university ended in July 1899.\nMain period of work (1899\u20131910).\nUpon his return to Etchmiadzin in September 1899, Komitas resumed teaching and composing. He assembled and trained a large polyphonic choir based on his acquired knowledge. Until 1906, he directed the Gevorgian Seminary choir. It was in this period when he completed \"most of the theoretical and research papers that earned him his place among the pioneers of ethnomusicology.\" Komitas spent summers in Armenian countryside, developing a unique relationship with villagers. He thus took the scholarly task of transcribing and preserving rural Armenian songs. In the fall of 1903 after three years of collection and transcription, Komitas published a collection of 50 folks songs titled \"One Thousand and One Songs\" (\u0540\u0561\u0566\u0561\u0580 \u0578\u0582 \u0574\u056b \u056d\u0561\u0572). Lyricist Manuk Abeghian helped him compile the folk pieces. The same collection was reprinted in 1904, while in 1905 a further 50 songs were published.\nConstantinople (1910\u201315).\n\"Seeking to bring appreciation of Armenian music to a wider audience\", Komitas moved to Constantinople (modern-day Istanbul), the Ottoman imperial capital in 1910. \"There he trained a group of students in Armenian melody and formed a choir that toured Armenian communities and gave performances of the folk compositions that Komitas had arranged for four-part choir.\" He founded the \"Gusan\" choir (\"Hay gusan\" since 1912), made up of tens of musicians. With the aim to produce professional musicians, he taught musicology to Barsegh Kanachyan, Mihran Tumacan, Vagharshak Srvandztian and others.\nDeportation and final years (1915\u201335).\nOn 24 April 1915, the day when the Armenian genocide officially began, he was arrested and put on a train the next day together with 180 other Armenian notables and sent to the city of \u00c7ank\u0131r\u0131 in northern Central Anatolia, at a distance of some . The Turkish nationalist poet Mehmet Emin Yurdakul, the writer Halide Edip and U.S. ambassador Henry Morgenthau intervened with the government, and by special orders from Talat Pasha, Komitas was dispatched back to the capital alongside eight other Armenians who had been deported. Grigoris Balakian's \"Armenian Golgotha\" offers details of his deportation, during which Komitas suffered tremendously and was afflicted with traumatic neurosis. In one passage Balakian recounts how:\nIn the autumn of 1916, he was taken to a hospital in Constantinople, H\u00f4pital de la paix, and then moved to Paris in 1919, where he died in a psychiatric clinic in Villejuif in 1935. Next year, his ashes were transferred to Yerevan and buried in the Pantheon that was named after him.\nLegacy.\nIn the 1950s, his manuscripts were also transferred from Paris to Yerevan.\nBadarak was first printed in 1933 in Paris and first recorded onto a digital media in 1988 in Yerevan. In collecting and publishing so many folk songs, he saved the cultural heritage of Western Armenia that otherwise would have disappeared because of the genocide. His works have been published in Armenia in a thoroughly annotated edition by Robert Atayan. Lately, nine songs on German poetry, written during his stay in Berlin, have been excavated from the archives in Yerevan and interpreted by soprano Hasmik Papian.\nThe Yerevan State Musical Conservatory is named after Komitas. There also exists a world-renowned string quartet named after Komitas.\nOn 6 July 2008, on the occasion of Quebec City's 400th anniversary celebration, a bronze bust of Komitas was unveiled near the Quebec National Assembly (provincial legislature, Auteuil street) in recognition of his great input to music in general and to Armenian popular and liturgical music in particular. Previously, a granite and bronze statue of Komitas was erected in Detroit in 1981 in honor of the great composer and as a reminder of the tragedy of the Armenian Genocide.\nIn September 2008, the CD \"Gomidas Songs\", sung by Isabel Bayrakdarian and accompanied by the Chamber Players of the Armenian Philharmonic and pianist Serouj Kradjian, was released on the Nonesuch label. This CD was nominated for a Grammy Award in the Best Vocal Recording category. A major North American tour by Ms. Bayrakdarian in October 2008 featured the music of Komitas, with concerts in Toronto, San Francisco, Orange County, Los Angeles, Vancouver, Boston and New York's Carnegie Hall. She was accompanied by the Manitoba Chamber Orchestra conducted by Anne Manson, and pianist Serouj Kradjian. The \"Remembrance Tour\" was dedicated to victims of all genocides and sponsored by the International Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies (a division of the Zoryan Institute). \nThe complete piano works of Komitas are recorded by \u015eahan Arzruni on Kalan M\u00fczik label in 2010 and remain the definitive interpretation of these compositions. Among the other performers of his music are Evgeny Kissin and Grigory Sokolov.\nSince 2018 Komitas appears on the 10000 Armenian dram banknote.\nIn 2019, the Gurdjief Ensemble debuted in New York City performing Komitas's folk songs on traditional instruments.\nModern performers, like Rew\u015fan \u00c7eliker and Pervin Chakar, reinterpret and promote his collected works, ensuring their continued relevance.\nLandmarks.\nThe following landmarks in Armenia have been named after him: \nReferences.\nNotes\nCitations"}
{"id": "732268", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732268", "title": "Bessemer Convertor", "text": ""}
{"id": "732271", "revid": "22041646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732271", "title": "Abkhaz", "text": "Abkhaz and Abkhazian may refer to:"}
{"id": "732272", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732272", "title": "Abano Bagni", "text": ""}
{"id": "732273", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732273", "title": "Abkhaz Language", "text": ""}
{"id": "732278", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732278", "title": "Hvalstad", "text": "Hvalstad is a village and a small part of the municipality of Asker. Hvalstad has slightly over 2,000 inhabitants, a number that has doubled since the 1970s. Hvalstad lies 20 kilometres from the centre of Oslo.\nHvalstad Station is on the Drammen Line, which opened on October 7, 1872.\nAsker Museum.\nAsker Museum is located in Hvalstad. The museum primarily shows the audience art of many kinds. It's a source to knowledge, understanding and inspiration. This Museum was the home of Otto and Tilla Valstad. They are related to the family that Hvalstad got its name from. When they died in the forties they gave their properties including their house to the Municipality of Asker and in this way it became a museum.\nHvalstad school.\nThe school in Hvalstad is relatively new; its construction was finished in 1999. Hvalstad School has a basket court and a grass football pitch. Hvalstad school is currently closed and being expanded.\nNotable residents.\nNotable people that were born or lived in Hvalstad include:"}
{"id": "732283", "revid": "41021449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732283", "title": "Intellectual rigour", "text": ""}
{"id": "732287", "revid": "13054498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732287", "title": "Institute of France", "text": ""}
{"id": "732288", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732288", "title": "Bank of Queensland", "text": "The Bank of Queensland (BOQ), formerly known as the Brisbane Permanent Benefit Building and Investment Society (BPBBIS) between 1874\u20131970, is an Australian retail bank with headquarters in Brisbane, Queensland. The bank is one of the oldest financial institutions in Queensland, having begun as a building society. It previously had 111 owner-managed branches throughout Australia, including thirty-six corporate branches and third-party intermediaries. They also have over 2,300 ATMs. The bank also owns Virgin Money Australia and ME Bank.\nIn 2021, customer satisfaction with BOQ was rated at 82.9% by Roy Morgan. In 2007 customer satisfaction levels were placed at 88%. The bank does not currently have any board directors who are based in Queensland.\nHistory.\nA Bank of Queensland was established in 1863. It collapsed in 1866 closing its doors in the severe financial depression known as the Panic of 1866. Another bank took the same name in 1917 but disappeared into the National Bank in 1922.\nThe current Bank of Queensland was established in 1874 as The Brisbane Permanent Benefit Building and Investment Society. It was incorporated in 1887. It amalgamated with City and Suburban Building Society in 1921 and with Queensland Deposit Bank a decade later. It remained a savings bank come building society until a trading bank licence was obtained in 1942 in the name of Brisbane Building and Banking Company.\nBrisbane Building and Banking Company changed its name to Bank of Queensland (BOQ) on 1 May 1970 and was listed on the Australian Securities Exchange in 1971. Its operations were computerised in 1970.\nBank of Queensland incorporated Bank of Queensland Savings Bank as a wholly owned subsidiary in 1982. In 1991 BOQ acquired Stowe Electronic Switching Pty Ltd and renamed it Queensland Electronic Switching Pty Ltd.\nIn 1999, Bank of Hawaii bought 5.8\u00a0m shares (approx. 10%) in Bank of Queensland. Two years later Bank of Hawaii sold its 6.2\u00a0m shares and 5.4\u00a0m convertible notes in Bank of Queensland to refocus on its operations in Hawaii.\nIn 2002, the Bank launched the tagline \"bank different\" which was to be their branding until 2011.\nBOQ acquired the equipment financing business of UFJ Bank in Australia and New Zealand in 2003. The bank also acquired ATM Solutions.\nBetween 2001 and 2004, BOQ accelerated its branch opening program, opening 55 new branches throughout Queensland and then branches in New South Wales, Victoria, and the Australian Capital Territory in 2004.The following year BOQ acquired the $78\u00a0million debtor finance division of Orix Australia. In 2006 the bank acquired Queensland-based Pioneer Permanent Building Society with full integration completed in November 2007.\nThe bank opened branches in the Northern Territory and Western Australia in 2006 and then merged with Western Australia-based Home Building Society and the Queensland-based Mackay Permanent Building Society in 2007.\nIn 2010, BOQ joined the rediATM network, and purchased St Andrew's Insurance. St Andrew's is an Australian manufacturer of consumer credit insurance products. It also acquired the Australian and New Zealand divisions of CIT Group Inc, a supplier of vendor finance to small businesses and middle market companies. In that year, BOQ launched a new slogan \"Your own personal bank\" which was replaced in 2013.\nIn 2011, the bank experienced a profit slump due to lending losses from the 2010\u201311 Queensland floods.\nIn 2013 BOQ bought Virgin Money Australia for $40 million. Under the deal, BOQ has rights to the Virgin Money name in Australia for four decades while paying royalties to the Virgin Group, and Virgin has a seat on the BOQ board.\nBOQ launched a new branding in 2013 \u2013 \u201cIt\u2019s possible to love a bank\".\nBOQ launched a new five-year five pillar strategy focused on growth and digitisation in February 2020. This included reducing some of the 220 banking products it offered and reducing processing times to counter underperformance\nIn January 2021, BOQ was given approval by the Australian Competition &amp; Consumer Commission to purchase ME Bank for $A1.3 billion raised through an underwritten capital raising of $A1.35 billion. Half of the Bank of Queensland's customers are in Queensland with another 30% split across New South Wales and Western Australia. One third of ME Bank's with another 47% based in New South Wales and Queensland. Combined, the group will have pro forma total assets over $88 billion, with total deposits of more than $56 billion. The ME brand will be maintained together with BOQ and Virgin Money. The purchase was approved by the Treasurer of Australia in June 2021, with the sale expected to be completed on 1 July 2021.\nIn October 2021, BOQ sold its St Andrew\u2019s Insurance business to Farmcove Investment Holdings for $23 million.\nIn August 2024, BOQ announced it would make up to 400 employees redundant and end its franchise model, moving to a corporate-owned branch structure by March 2025.\nFranchise model.\nThe BOQ chose a franchise model as a key part of its expansion nationally across Australia in the early 2000s. Many of the bank's branches are run as franchises, under which the bank pays franchisees commissions on the loans they generate, the deposits they source and other products they retail. BOQ calls the franchisees \"Owner Managers\", and selects small business owners who have strong community relationships to set up a local branch in a suburb or town. BOQ's stated aim was to offer \"communities the security of a national bank combined with local know-how\" and a personal banker.\nThe branch owner is responsible for employing and managing the branch staff and all other operating costs associated with running the business whilst operating according to BOQ's policies and procedures. BOQ is responsible for overall brand, policy, product, and operations. Owner Managers were eligible for a series of rewards including BMW car and travel vouchers.\nFollowing the 2011 loss, the BOQ reduced its branch network which included taking control of some of the franchise branches and buying the branch owners out.\nBOQ experienced a series of litigation actions between 2014 and 2016 by some franchise owners who believed that they had been unfairly treated.\nTwo of BOQ's Victorian franchisees sued the bank in the Supreme Court of Victoria in 2014, claiming senior bank management forced them out of business. In 2013, the bank terminated the franchise agreement with the owner-managers of its Geelong West branch in Victoria and used police and security guards to prevent them entering their branch.\nIn 2014, BOQ won a large class action proceeding in the Supreme Court of New South Wales.\u00a0In this case, the Bank successfully defended claims of misleading and deceptive conduct, unconscionable conduct and negligence brought by eleven franchisees who claimed loss and damage caused by the failure of their franchise branches. In 2015, the NSW Court of Appeal rejected the claimants' appeal.\nDuring the Royal Commission into Misconduct in the Banking, Superannuation and Financial Services Industry, the banks franchise model was scrutinised.\nIn February 2020, the CEO stated that as part of a new five year strategy, that owner-manager branches would continue to be an important and growing part of the business.\nIn August 2024, BOQ announced it would buy all owner-managed branches and convert them to corporate branches by March 2025. CEO Patrick Allaway said \"The current operating model and structure is not sustainable for us.\"\nNotable former franchisees include Simon Black, Mark Bartholomeusz and Ben Tune.\nInvolvement with Storm Financial.\nIn 2010, it was found that one of the Townsville branches of the Bank of Queensland was giving loans to clients of the collapsed Storm Financial. Australian Securities &amp; Investments Commission undertook compensation suits on behalf of Storm Financial clients against the BOQ.\nAwards.\nBOQ was inducted into the Queensland Business Leaders Hall of Fame in 2014, in recognition of its excellence in providing banking services to Queensland for over a century and its continuing expansion nationally."}
{"id": "732289", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732289", "title": "French Institute", "text": ""}
{"id": "732298", "revid": "1956573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732298", "title": "Denison Barb", "text": ""}
{"id": "732299", "revid": "1630116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732299", "title": "Earl of Belvidere", "text": ""}
{"id": "732300", "revid": "1398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732300", "title": "Sahyadria denisonii", "text": ""}
{"id": "732301", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732301", "title": "Viscount Bellfield", "text": ""}
{"id": "732302", "revid": "237572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732302", "title": "Anemonoides nemorosa", "text": "Anemonoides nemorosa (syn. \"Anemone nemorosa\"), the wood anemone, is an early-spring flowering plant in the buttercup family Ranunculaceae, native to Europe. Other common names include windflower, European thimbleweed, and smell fox, an allusion to the musky smell of the leaves. It is a perennial herbaceous plant growing tall.\nDescription.\n\"Anemonoides nemorosa\" is a rhizomatous herbaceous perennial plant less than in height. The compound basal leaves are palmate or ternate (divided into three lobes). They grow from underground root-like stems called rhizomes and die back down by mid summer (summer dormant).\nThe plants start blooming in spring, March to May in the British Isles soon after the foliage emerges from the ground. The flowers are solitary, held above the foliage on short stems, with a whorl of three palmate or palmately-lobed leaflike bracts beneath. The flowers are diameter, with six or seven (and on rare occasions eight to ten) tepals (petal-like segments) with many stamens. In the wild the flowers are usually white but may be pinkish, lilac or blue, and often have a darker tint on the backs of the tepals.\nSimilar species.\nThe yellow wood anemone (\"Anemonoides ranunculoides\") is slightly smaller, with yellow flowers and usually without basal leaves.\nWood sorrel \"Oxalis acetosella\", which grows in similar shaded places, can be readily distinguished by its 3-parted, clover-like leaves and smaller flowers with only white petals and 5 sepals.\nDistribution and habitat.\nThe native range of \"Anemonoides nemorosa\" extends across Europe to western Asia, reaching as far south as the Caucasus Mountains in Turkey. It has been introduced into New Zealand and elsewhere. In North America, there are naturalized populations at well-known sites in Newfoundland, Quebec, and Massachusetts.\n\"A.\u00a0nemorosa\" is often found in shady woods. The species is common in the British Isles but it spreads very slowly there, by as little as six feet per century, so it is often used as an indicator for ancient woodland.\nEcology.\nThe flowers are pollinated by insects, especially hoverflies. The seeds are achenes.\nIn cultivation.\nMany cultivars have been selected for garden use, The \"RHS Plant Finder 2008\u20132009\" lists 70 cultivars sold by nurseries in the UK. Some of the most widely available are:\nThose marked are recipients of the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. \n\"Anemonoides\" \u00d7 \"lipsiensis\", a hybrid between \"A. nemorosa\" and \"A. ranunculoides\", has pale yellow flowers; \"A.\" \u00d7 \"lipsiensis\" 'Pallida' is the best-known result of this cross. It has also been awarded the AGM."}
{"id": "732303", "revid": "1630116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732303", "title": "Baron Bellfield", "text": ""}
{"id": "732306", "revid": "65843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732306", "title": "Robert T. Morris, Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "732311", "revid": "1476295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732311", "title": "Sumatra Barb", "text": ""}
{"id": "732314", "revid": "32001896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732314", "title": "Axiomatic method", "text": ""}
{"id": "732315", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732315", "title": "Scientific wager", "text": "A scientific wager is a wager whose outcome is settled by experiment or observation, following the scientific method. It typically comprises a commitment to pay out when a currently-unknown or uncertain statement is resolved, and either proven or disproved. Some wagers have specific date restrictions for collection, but many are open. Wagers occasionally exert a powerful galvanizing effect on society and the scientific community.\nNotable scientists who have made scientific wagers include Stephen Hawking and Richard Feynman. The Stanford Linear Accelerator has an open book containing about 35 wagers in particle physics dating back to 1980; many are still unresolved.\nNotable scientific wagers.\nThere are many examples of scientific wagers from the past two centuries, many related to large-scale questions in science at the time. \nIn 1870, Alfred Russel Wallace bet a flat-Earth theorist named John Hampden that he could prove the flat Earth hypothesis incorrect. The sum staked was . A test involving a stretch of the Old Bedford River, in Norfolk, was agreed on: Wallace measured the curvature of the canal's surface using two markers separated by about and suspended at equal heights above the water's surface. Using a telescope mounted 5\u00a0km from one of the markers, Wallace established that the nearer one appeared to be the higher of the two. An independent referee agreed that this showed the Earth's surface to curve away from the telescope, and so Wallace won his money. However, Hampden never accepted the result and made increasingly unpleasant threats to Wallace. This test is now known as the Bedford Level experiment.\nIn 1975, cosmologist Stephen Hawking bet fellow cosmologist Kip Thorne a subscription to \"Penthouse\" for Thorne against four years of \"Private Eye\" for him that Cygnus X-1 would turn out to not be a black hole. In 1990, Hawking acknowledged that he had lost the bet. Hawking's explanation for his position was that if black holes did not actually exist much of his research would be incorrect, but at least he would have the consolation of winning the bet.\nIn 1975, Michael Sipser wagered an ounce of gold with Leonard Adleman that the P versus NP problem would be solved with a proof that P\u2260NP by the end of the 20th century. Sipser sent Adleman an American Gold Eagle coin in 2000 because the problem remained (and remains) unsolved.\nIn 1978, chess International Master David Levy won from four artificial intelligence experts by never losing a match to a chess program in a ten-year span from 1968 to 1978.\nIn 1980, biologist Paul R. Ehrlich bet economist Julian Lincoln Simon that the price of a portfolio of US$200 () of each of five mineral commodities (copper, chromium, nickel, tin, and tungsten) would rise over the next 10 years. He lost, and paid the amount the total price had declined: . See: Simon\u2013Ehrlich wager\nIn 1997, Stephen Hawking and Kip Thorne made a bet with John Preskill on the ultimate resolution of the apparent contradiction between Hawking radiation resulting in a loss of information, and a requirement of quantum mechanics that information cannot be destroyed. Hawking and Thorne bet that information must be lost in a black hole; Preskill bet that it must not. The formal wager was: \"When an initial pure quantum state undergoes gravitational collapse to form a black hole, the final state at the end of black hole evaporation will always be a pure quantum state\". The stake was an encyclopaedia of the winner's choice, from which \"information can be recovered at will\". Hawking conceded the bet in 2004, giving a baseball encyclopaedia to John Preskill. Thorne has not formally conceded. See: Thorne-Hawking-Preskill bet\nIn 2000 roughly 40 physicists made a bet about the existence of supersymmetry, to be settled in 2011, but because the Large Hadron Collider was delayed the bet was extended to 2016. As of summer 2016 there had been no signs of superparticles, and the losers delivered \"good cognac at a price not less than $100\" each to the winners ().\nIn 2000, Steven Austad and Jay Olshansky bet US$150 () each on whether anyone born before 2001 will reach the age of 150. They later increased the bet to $300 () each. The pot is invested in a fund, and could be worth several hundred million dollars by 2150.\nFrom 2000 to 2003, scientists placed bets on the number of genes in the human genome in a sweepstakes known as GeneSweep organised by Ewan Birney.\nIn 2005, British climate scientist James Annan laid bets with global warming denialists concerning whether future temperatures will increase. Two Russian solar physicists, Galina Mashnich and Vladimir Bashkirtsev, accepted the wager of US$10,000 () that the average global temperature during 2012\u20132017 would be lower than during 1998\u20132003. The bet ended in 2017 with a win to Annan. Mashnich and Bashkirtsev did not honour the bet. Previously, Annan had directly challenged Richard Lindzen. Lindzen had been willing to bet that global temperatures would drop over the next 20 years. Annan says that Lindzen wanted odds of 50\u20131 against falling temperatures. Lindzen, however, says that he asked for 2\u20131 odds against a temperature rise of over 0.4\u00a0\u00b0C. Annan and others state they have challenged other denialists to bets over global warming that were not accepted, including Annan's attempt in 2005 to accept a bet that had been offered by Patrick Michaels in 1998 that temperatures would be cooler after ten years. Annan made a bet in 2011 with astrophysicist David Whitehouse that the Met Office temperature would set a new annual record by the end of the year. Annan was declared to have lost on January 13, 2012.\nIn 2005, \"The Guardian\" columnist George Monbiot challenged Myron Ebell of the Competitive Enterprise Institute to a \u00a35,000 bet () of global warming versus global cooling.\nOn July 8, 2009, at a FQXi conference in the Azores, Antony Garrett Lisi made a public bet with Frank Wilczek that superparticles would not be detected by July 8, 2015. On August 16, 2016, after agreeing to a one-year delay to allow for more data collection from the Large Hadron Collider, Frank Wilczek conceded the superparticle bet to Lisi.\nIn 2012, Stephen Hawking lost to Gordon Kane of the University of Michigan because of the Higgs boson discovery.\nZvi Bern has won many bets connected to quantum gravity. In 2016 David Gross lost a wager about supersymmetry, but he continues to believe in the theory. In 2017, Daniel J. Bernstein made a bet for US$2,048 () with Francisco Rodr\u00edguez-Henr\u00edquez that quantum computers will publicly break the RSA-2048 factoring challenge no later than 2033. In 2023, John Preu\u00df Mattsson bet $2,050 that the challenge will withstand quantum computing until at least 2050. Daniel J. Bernstein, John Sahhar, Daniel Apon, and Michele Mosca accepted the bet.\nIn 2021 Alexander Kusenko lost a $10,000 wager to Derek Muller over the possibility of sailing directly downwind faster than the wind as documented on Muller's channel, Veritasium."}
{"id": "732316", "revid": "30268075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732316", "title": "Windflower", "text": "Windflower may refer to:"}
{"id": "732317", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732317", "title": "European thimbleweed", "text": ""}
{"id": "732319", "revid": "3790501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732319", "title": "Colli Euganei", "text": ""}
{"id": "732320", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732320", "title": "Baron Deedes", "text": ""}
{"id": "732321", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732321", "title": "Lady Blackstone", "text": ""}
{"id": "732323", "revid": "3492060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732323", "title": "Del Pezzo surface", "text": "In mathematics, a del Pezzo surface or Fano surface is a two-dimensional Fano variety, in other words a non-singular projective algebraic surface with ample anticanonical divisor class. They are in some sense the opposite of surfaces of general type, whose canonical class is big.\nThey are named for Pasquale del Pezzo who studied the surfaces with the more restrictive condition that they have a very ample anticanonical divisor class, or in his language the surfaces with a degree \"n\" embedding in \"n\"-dimensional projective space , which are the del Pezzo surfaces of degree at least 3.\nClassification.\nA del Pezzo surface is a complete non-singular surface with ample anticanonical bundle. There are some variations of this definition that are sometimes used. Sometimes del Pezzo surfaces are allowed to have singularities. They were originally assumed to be embedded in projective space by the anticanonical embedding, which restricts the degree to be at least 3.\nThe degree \"d\" of a del Pezzo surface \"X\" is by definition the self intersection number (\"K\", \"K\") of its canonical class \"K\".\nAny curve on a del Pezzo surface has self intersection number at least \u22121. The number of curves with self intersection number \u22121 is finite and depends only on the degree (unless the degree is 8).\nA (\u22121)-curve is a rational curve with self intersection number \u22121. For \"d &gt; 2\", the image of such a curve in projective space under the anti-canonical embedding is a line.\nThe blowdown of any (\u22121)-curve on a del Pezzo surface is a del Pezzo surface of degree 1 more. \nThe blowup of any point on a del Pezzo surface is a del Pezzo surface of degree 1 less, provided that the point does not lie on a (\u22121)-curve and the degree is greater than 2. When the degree is 2, we have to add the condition that the point is not fixed by the Geiser involution, associated to the anti-canonical morphism.\nDel Pezzo proved that a del Pezzo surface has degree \"d\" at most 9. Over an algebraically closed field, every del Pezzo surface \nis either a product of two projective lines (with \"d\"=8), or the blow-up of a projective plane in 9 \u2212 \"d\" points with no three collinear, no six on a conic, and no eight of them on a cubic having a node at one of them. \nConversely any blowup of the plane in points satisfying these conditions is a del Pezzo surface.\nThe Picard group of a del Pezzo surface of degree \"d\" is the odd unimodular lattice I1,9\u2212\"d\", except when the surface is a product of 2 lines when the Picard group is the even unimodular lattice II1,1.When it is an odd lattice, the canonical element is (3, 1, 1, 1, ...), and the exceptional curves are represented by permutations of all but the first coordinate of the following vectors:\nExamples.\nDegree 1: they have 240 (\u22121)-curves corresponding to the roots of an \"E\"8 root system. They form an 8-dimensional family. The anticanonical divisor is not very ample. The linear system |\u22122\"K\"| defines a degree 2 map from the del Pezzo surface to a quadratic cone in P3, branched over a nonsingular genus 4 curve cut out by a cubic surface.\nDegree 2: they have 56 (\u22121)-curves corresponding to the minuscule vectors of the dual of the \"E\"7 lattice. They form a 6-dimensional family. The anticanonical divisor is not very ample, and its linear system defines a map from the del Pezzo surface to the projective plane, branched over a quartic plane curve. This map is generically 2 to 1, so this surface is sometimes called a del Pezzo double plane. The 56 lines of the del Pezzo surface map in pairs to the 28 bitangents of a quartic.\nDegree 3: these are essentially cubic surfaces in P3; the cubic surface is the image of the anticanonical embedding. They have 27 (\u22121)-curves corresponding to the minuscule vectors of one coset in the dual of the \"E\"6 lattice, which map to the 27 lines of the cubic surface. They form a 4-dimensional family.\nDegree 4: these are essentially Segre surfaces in P4, given by the intersection of two quadrics. They have 16 (\u22121)-curves. They form a 2-dimensional family.\nDegree 5: they have 10 (\u22121)-curves corresponding to the minuscule vectors of one coset in the dual of the \"A\"4 lattice. There is up to isomorphism only one such surface, given by blowing up the projective plane in 4 points with no 3 on a line.\nDegree 6: they have 6 (\u22121)-curves. There is up to isomorphism only one such surface, given by blowing up the projective plane in 3 points not on a line. The root system is \"A\"2 \u00d7 \"A\"1\nDegree 7: they have 3 (\u22121)-curves. There is up to isomorphism only one such surface, given by blowing up the projective plane in 2 distinct points.\nDegree 8: they have 2 isomorphism types. One is a Hirzebruch surface given by the blow up of the projective plane at one point, which has 1 (\u22121)-curves. The other is the product of two projective lines, which is the only del Pezzo surface that cannot be obtained by starting with the projective plane and blowing up points. Its Picard group is the even 2-dimensional unimodular indefinite lattice II1,1, and it contains no (\u22121)-curves.\nDegree 9: The only degree 9 del Pezzo surface is P2. Its anticanonical embedding is the degree 3 Veronese embedding into P9 using the linear system of cubics.\nWeak del Pezzo surfaces.\nA weak del Pezzo surface is a complete non-singular surface with anticanonical bundle that is nef and big.\nThe blowdown of any (\u22121)-curve on a weak del Pezzo surface is a weak del Pezzo surface of degree 1 more. \nThe blowup of any point on a weak del Pezzo surface is a weak del Pezzo surface of degree 1 less, provided that the point does not lie on a \u22122-curve and the degree is greater than 1.\nAny curve on a weak del Pezzo surface has self intersection number at least \u22122. The number of curves with self intersection number \u22122 is at most 9\u2212\"d\", and the number of curves with self intersection number \u22121 is finite."}
{"id": "732324", "revid": "20585603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732324", "title": "Del Pezzo", "text": "Del Pezzo may refer to:"}
{"id": "732325", "revid": "861759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732325", "title": "Lunch Money (game)", "text": "Lunch Money is an elimination-style card game designed by C.E. Wiedman and released in May 1996 by Atlas Games. The game consisted of 110 cards and was sold as a complete box set.\nGameplay.\nThe art on the cards consists of dark, somewhat Gothic photographic images of a small girl (photos by Andrew Yates), usually accompanied by humorous quotes pertaining to the card's name.\nIn the game, players control a character with fifteen \"health\" points, and draw a hand of five cards. The players take turns playing cards to \"attack\" other players, who try to block, dodge, and counterattack the attacker. When the defender is done responding, he or she takes any applicable damage, and both players then redraw their hands to five cards, passing the turn to the next player. When a player loses all her health points she passes out. The last one \"conscious\" wins the game.\nThe game's name derives from its theme, that of children involved in a schoolyard fight. There is also a small expansion set called Sticks and Stones, and a larger sequel/expansion called Beer Money.\nThere are several types of cards, including Basic Attacks, Special Attacks, Weapons, and Defense cards. Each is distinguished by a different background color to the artwork: for example, the images on Defense cards have a blue tint.\n\"Basic Attack\" cards do a set amount of damage (i.e., take away health points) if not countered. Damage ranges from one to seven points depending on the card played. Basic Attacks can be countered by Block or Dodge. If not countered, the targeted player marks off the appropriate number of points, and the turn ends.\n\"Special Attacks\" usually do damage, but have other effects as well. For example, Poke In The Eye does only one point of direct damage, but also renders the target unable to defend against a follow-up attack from the same player who used Poke In The Eye, and either leaves the target defenseless against an attack from the next player to take a turn, or, if the next player is the victim, makes the victim lose a turn. Special Attacks can be countered by playing Block, Dodge, or, in the case of Grab (which does no initial damage, but sets up the victim for other attacks like Headlock and Choke), Freedom.\n\"Weapons,\" like Basic Attacks, do simple damage (always three points) without additional harmful effects to the target, but unlike all other cards, they are not discarded when played. A player can thus use the Hammer, for example, repeatedly over the course of many turns. Weapon attacks may be countered with Block or Dodge. They can also be countered by the otherwise useless Disarm, which forces the attacker to discard the Weapon. Persons playing Disarm are not allowed to capture the weapon for their own use.\n\"Defense\" cards either negate Attacks, allowing the target to avoid taking damage, or repair damage already taken. Dodge may be used against any attack card: Block against any attack other than Grab. Freedom is useful only against Grab attacks, and may also be used to escape from Special Attacks that do ongoing damage, such as Headlock. First Aid \"heals\" two points of damage when played. Any number of First Aid cards may be played at the same time, either on a player's turn, or as a last-ditch defense if a player takes enough damage from an attack that he or she would otherwise be out of the game.\n\"Humiliation,\" the trump card of the game, is usually used as a Defense since it immediately cancels the effect of any single card. However, since it can be played at any time and for any reason (without the player needing to wait for his or her turn), it can also be used offensively to, for example, cancel another player's successful Dodge or use of First Aid. Humiliation cannot be countered except with the use of another Humiliation.\nAccording to the game directions, Humiliation, when played, should always be accompanied by a detailed description of what has been done to thoroughly Humiliate the victim. This is an example of the way the game encourages boasting and trash talking as part of the fun.\nReception.\nDerek Pearcy reviewed \"Lunch Money\" for \"Pyramid\" magazine and stated that \"the cards were cool. I'd known about the game for some time, but playing it late at night after a busy day on the con floor, watching industry mavens pause from play to laugh over a caption or ooh over the beautiful photos, struck home for me just how unique a game \"Lunch Money\" would be. In an industry that was - even then - sick of cards and card games, this one got an awful lot of attention.\"\nAndy Butcher reviewed \"Lunch Money\" for \"Arcane\" magazine, rating it a 7 out of 10 overall. Butcher comments that \"\"Lunch Money\" succeeds at what it sets out to do, which is to provide a quick, fun-packed combat game that takes virtually no preparation and can be learnt in five minutes. Even if the artwork is a bit weird.\"\nIn 1997, \"Lunch Money\" jointly won the Origins Award for \"Best Card Game of 1996\" in a three-way tie with \"Legend of the Five Rings: Battle of Beiden Pass\" and \"Mythos\".\nIn 1999, \"Pyramid\" magazine named \"Lunch Money\" as one of \"The Millennium's Best Card Games\". Editor Scott Haring said that \"what puts it on this list is the twisted sensibility of using arty photographs of innocent young girls in spooky settings, juxtaposed with the cruel whimsy on the card text.\""}
{"id": "732326", "revid": "40781349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732326", "title": "Sexbierum", "text": "Sexbierum (; ) is a village in the municipality of Waadhoeke, in the central north of the Netherlands.\nSexbierum is located in the province of Friesland and located about north-east of Harlingen, about north-west of Franeker. The distance to Amsterdam is about .\nThe village consists of approximately 600 houses, with 1,744 inhabitants in January 2014.\nHistory.\nIn history the village is first mentioned in the 13th century as Sixtisberen. The name means \"houses of Sixtus\" and is a reference to pope Sixtus II. The name can be read in Dutch as sex, beer, rum, and therefore, the place name signs get occasionally stolen.\nSexbierum is a \"terp\" (artificial living hill) village from the 8th century. It was originally separated from Pietersbierum by a trench of the Wadden Sea. The Dutch Reformed church dates from the 13th century. The Liauckema State was a \"stins\" from the 13th century which was demolished in 1824, however the gate house was remained. The grist mill De Korenaar was built in 1868 as a replacement of an earlier wind mill which burnt down. It is currently used as a conference and party centre.\nSexbierum was home to 934 people in 1840. There was a station on the North Friesland Railway which opened in 1903 and closed to passengers in May 1935. In the late 1960s, Sexbierum and the adjoining village of Pietersbierum merged into a single urban area, however they remain separate villages.\nUp to 2018, the village was part of the Franekeradeel municipality and up to 1984 it was part of the Barradeel municipality.\nCulture.\nWest Frisian is the main language in Sexbierum, but the Dutch language has an increasing influence. Circa 1972 the primary schools in Sexbierum switched to Dutch as the main teaching language, instead of West Frisian. Before 1972 the only lessons taught in Dutch were the Dutch language lessons.\nNotable people.\nSeventeenth century admiral Tjerk Hiddes de Vries was born in the village."}
{"id": "732329", "revid": "29738728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732329", "title": "Mevagissey", "text": "Mevagissey (; ) is a village, fishing port and civil parish in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. The village is approximately five miles (8\u00a0km) south of St Austell. At the 2021 census the population of the parish was 2,160 and the population of the built up area was 1,749.\nThe village nestles in a small valley and faces east to Mevagissey Bay. The inner and outer harbours are busy with a mixture of pleasure vessels and working fishing boats. It has a thriving fishing industry and is the second biggest fishing port in Cornwall.\nMevagissey village centre consists of narrow streets with many places to eat and shops aimed at the tourist trade. The outer areas are built on the steep slopes of the surrounding hillsides and are mostly residential.\nHistory.\nThe first recorded mention of Mevagissey dates from 1313 (when it was known as Porthhilly), although there is evidence of settlement dating back to the Bronze Age.\nThe old name of the parish was Lamorrick, and it was part of the episcopal manor of Tregear. The church was dedicated to Saints Meva and Ida in 1259 by Bishop Bronescombe and in 1329 Sir Otho Bodrugan appropriated it to Glasney College. The Norman church was cruciform and some Norman work remains but the church was more or less rebuilt in the 15th century. In the Commonwealth period the tower became ruinous and the bells were taken down and sold to a Quaker of St Austell. According to tradition there has been a church on the same site since about 500 AD. Meva may well be the same as St Mewan and Issey is also the patron saint of St Issey.\nMevagissey is home to three holy wells. The Brass Well and Lady's Well are both situated in the manor of Treleaven, and the third is within the gardens of Mevagissey House, the old vicarage.\nTowards the end of the 17th century, Porthhilly merged with the hamlet of Lamoreck (or Lamorrick) to make the new village. It was renamed \"Meva hag Ysi\", after two saints; St Mevan/Mewan, a Welsh man and an Irish woman, St Issey or Ida/Ita, (\"hag\" is the Cornish word for \"and\"). There is no evidence for why this new name was adopted but it may have been due to the Church replacing a Cornish name with a Christian one. The modern Cornish name is Lannvorek, after the old parish name. At this time the main sources of income for the village were pilchard fishing and smuggling and the village had at least ten inns, of which the Fountain and the Ship still remain.\nAndrew Pears, the founder of Pears' Soap was born in the village in 1768 and set up a barber's shop here until he moved to London in 1789.\nCornish wrestling tournaments, for prizes, were held in Mevagissey in the 1800s and 1900s.\nGovernance.\nThere are two tiers of local government covering Mevagissey, at parish and unitary authority level: Mevagissey Parish Council and Cornwall Council. The parish council generally meets at the Mevagissey Activity Centre on Valley Road.\nThe parish lies within the parliamentary constituency of St Austell and Newquay; it had previously been in the Truro and St Austell, &amp; Truro constituencies.\nAdministrative history.\nMevagissey was an ancient parish in the Powder Hundred of Cornwall. The parish was abolished in 1934 when the area was absorbed into the St Austell Urban District. St Austell Urban District was replaced in 1968 by the larger borough of St Austell with Fowey, which was in turn abolished six years later in 1974 to become part of the larger borough of Restormel. A new civil parish of Mevagissey was created in 1983.\nRestormel was abolished in 2009. Cornwall County Council then took on district-level functions, making it a unitary authority, and was renamed Cornwall Council.\nReligion.\nIt is in the Anglican diocese of Truro, the archdeaconry of Cornwall, and the deanery of St Austell.\nHarbour.\nThe harbour is built on the site of a medieval quay. The first act of Parliament allowing the new port to be built was the ' (15 Geo. 3. c. 62). The inner harbour, consisting of the current East and West Quays, was constructed from this time. An outer harbour was added in 1888, having been authorised by the ' but seriously damaged in a blizzard in 1891. Repairs were authorised by the , and the outer walls were rebuilt by 1897. The harbour was given charitable trust status in 1988.\nThe Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) opened Mevagissey Lifeboat Station in 1869, although the lifeboat was kept at Portmellon until 1888. It was kept afloat in the harbour for a few years but a purpose-built concrete boat house with a slipway was opened in 1897. The neighbouring station at was provided with a motor lifeboat in 1928 which proved capable of covering the area around Mevagissey so the station was closed in 1930. The old boat house was later turned into an aquarium.\nMevagissey lighthouse was built in 1896 to mark the south breakwater that protects the small harbour.\nIn 1880 there were around sixty fishing-boats engaged in the mackerel fishery, and herring and pilchards were also important fisheries. Pilchards were also imported from Plymouth for curing at the Cornish Sardine Factory and the imported salt was also used for adding to butter at the same factory. Barley, grown nearby, was exported to Campbeltown, Scotland.\nThere are currently 63 registered fishing vessels in the harbour worked by 69 fishermen. The harbour also offers tourist fishing trips and there is a regular summer passenger ferry to Fowey.\nMevagissey today.\nEach year at the end of June, Mevagissey celebrates Feast Week, a week of family fun, music, and floral dances through the streets. At the end of the week there is a carnival and a fireworks display.\nMevagissey is within the Cornwall Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB). Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty, along with national parks, are considered to be the most special landscapes in the country and belong to an international family of protected areas. It is a designation aimed at conserving and enhancing the natural beauty of the area.\nHealthcare.\nIn May 2019 the sole partner at the Mevagissey GP surgery announced that she was handing back the contract, and villagers faced a trip to St Austell to see a doctor.\nHitler's Walk.\nA park in Mevagissey is popularly named \"Hitler's Walk\" by locals. Local folklore attributes this naming to the 1930s use of the park by a local councillor who was perceived to have displayed petty authoritarian tendencies; while others say it was because the home guard would patrol there looking for invasion forces from Germany. The park was the subject of controversy and national news headlines in September 2005 when signs bearing the name were removed after complaints to Restormel Borough Council, and again in January 2015 after the Mevagissey Parish Council decided to reinstate them. Harvey Kurzfield of Kehillat Kernow described the decision to restore the signage as \"outrageous and completely unfeeling\" and urged Jewish people to boycott the village. In February 2015 it was reported that the council had dropped the plans to reinstate the signs.\nHeligan.\nThe Heligan estate is located on the steep slopes above Mevagissey, albeit mostly in the adjoining civil parish of St Ewe. The long term home of the Tremayne family, the estate is now best known as the location of the Lost Gardens of Heligan, a recently restored Victorian garden.\nIn popular culture.\nThe writer Susan Cooper based two of her books (\"Over Sea, Under Stone\" and \"Greenwitch\") in her well-known fantasy series \"The Dark Is Rising\" in Mevagissey (named 'Trewissick' in the books), where she used to holiday as a child. Mevagissey House is the vicarage from the first book 'Over Sea Under Stone', where Jane first meets the mysterious Mr Hastings.\nThe Wurzels wrote a song called \"Mevagissey\".\nIn an episode of the 1990s BBC children's television series \"Maid Marian and Her Merry Men\", the Sheriff of Nottingham (played by Tony Robinson) says that \"The country is suffering under the worst cold spell since King Arthur sat on The Magic Icicle of Mevagissey\".\nThe inaugural episode of the popular BBC Two television cooking series \"Two Fat Ladies\" was filmed primarily in Mevagissey and the surrounding countryside.\nIn film.\nMevagissey is a popular location for filmmakers and advertisers. It featured in \"The Next of Kin\", 1942; \"Johnny Frenchman\", 1945; \"Never Let Me Go\", 1953; \"Dracula\", 1979; \"Bad Education\", 2015; and \"Playing Nice\", 2025."}
{"id": "732330", "revid": "48736052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732330", "title": "Brian Moriarty", "text": "Brian Moriarty (born 1956) is an American video game developer who authored three of the original Infocom interactive fiction titles, \"Wishbringer\" (1985), \"Trinity\" (1986), and \"Beyond Zork\" (1987), as well as \"Loom\" (1990) for LucasArts.\nCareer.\nPrior to joining Infocom, Moriarty was a Technical Editor for the Atari 8-bit computer magazine \"ANALOG Computing\". He wrote two text adventures for \"ANALOG\": \"Adventure in the 5th Dimension\" (1983) and \"Crash Dive!\" (1984). He also worked on \"Tachyon\" (1985), an adaptation of Atari's \"Quantum\" arcade game, which was previewed but never published.\nMoriarty joined Lucasfilm Games, later known as LucasArts, in 1988 at the invitation of Noah Falstein. There he designed his first graphic adventure game, \"Loom\", published in 1990. Though the game was a commercial success and Moriarty had an idea for sequels which were briefly entertained, he opted to move on to other projects.\nAfter working on an unreleased game based on \"The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles\" for the studio's educational division, he took over \"The Dig\", a science fiction adventure game based on an idea from Steven Spielberg. The project had a notoriously lengthy and troubled development, with Moriarty leading the second of ultimately three incarnations the game underwent before finally shipping in 1995. When his version of the project collapsed in 1993, Moriarty departed LucasArts and joined Rocket Science Games. Moriarty said of his stint at Rocket Science Games, \"It was a silly time. The Rocket Science executives were out to be Hollywood moguls, and, to their credit, they got hold of some serious money, and to start off with, it looked as if it was going to be a really fun gig. And they got most of it right. ... But the \"Wired\" cover should have warned us. I mean, \"Wired\" is the kiss of death. If they're on top of you, then you should know that you're already out of date.\"\nIn 1995 Moriarty became the head of game design for the online gaming service Mpath.\nOn occasion, Moriarty delivers public lectures. One of these, his 2002 Game Developers Conference presentation \"The Secret of Psalm 46,\" has been adapted into a dramatic production and a graphic novel, and was included in its entirety as a video Easter egg in Jonathan Blow's puzzle game \"The Witness\" (2016).\nMoriarty is a Professor of Practice in the Interactive Media and Game Development program at Worcester Polytechnic Institute."}
{"id": "732331", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732331", "title": "Geoffrey Keynes", "text": "Sir Geoffrey Langdon Keynes ( ; 25 March 1887, Cambridge \u2013 5 July 1982, Cambridge) was a British surgeon and author. He began his career as a physician in World War I, before becoming a doctor at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London, where he made notable innovations in the fields of blood transfusion and breast cancer surgery. Keynes was also a publishing scholar and bibliographer of English literature and English medical history, focusing primarily on William Blake and William Harvey.\nEarly life and education.\nGeoffrey Keynes was born on 25 March 1887 in Cambridge, England. His father was John Neville Keynes, an economics lecturer at the University of Cambridge and his mother was Florence Ada Brown, a successful author and a social reformer. Geoffrey Keynes was the third child, after his older brother, the prominent economist John Maynard Keynes, and his sister Margaret, who married the Nobel Prize\u2013winning physiologist Archibald Hill.\nHe attended Rugby School, where he became friends with English poet Rupert Brooke. In 1915 he was appointed literary executor for Brooke's estate.\nHe graduated from Pembroke College, Cambridge, where he earned a first-class degree in the Natural Sciences Tripos. He was later made an honorary fellow of Pembroke College. Keynes then qualified for a scholarship to become a surgeon with the Royal College of Surgeons in London.\nCareer.\nFirst and Second World Wars.\nKeynes delayed his medical education in order to serve in World War I, where he served as a Lieutenant in the Royal Army Medical Corps and then worked as a consultant surgeon, becoming an expert in blood transfusion. His experience in the First World War led him to publish \"Blood Transfusion\", the first book on the subject written by a British author. Keynes also founded the London Blood Transfusion Service with P. L. Oliver. Alexander Bogdanov acquired a copy of this book whilst visiting London to negotiate the Anglo-Soviet Trade Agreement in 1922. Bogdanov went on to found the Institute for Haematology and Blood Transfusions in Moscow.\nKeynes was deeply affected by the brutality and gore that he witnessed in the field, which may have influenced his dislike for radical surgery later in his career.\nKeynes enlisted to be a consulting surgeon to the Royal Air Force at the outbreak of World War II. In 1944 he was promoted to the rank of acting air vice-marshal.\nMedical career.\nKeynes began working full-time at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London, where he worked under George Gask and Sir Thomas Dunhill, after returning from World War I. Keynes used his influence as an assistant surgeon to advocate for limited surgery instead of the invasive radical mastectomy. Frustrated with the mortality rate and gruesomeness of the radical mastectomy, Keynes experimented by inserting 50 milligrams of radium in a patient's tumour. He later observed that, \"The ulcer rapidly healed ... and the whole mass became smaller, softer and less fixed.\"\nKeynes pursued his new idea through a number of trials, observing the effectiveness of injecting radium chloride into breast cancer tumours compared with the effectiveness of the radical mastectomy. The promising results of these trials led Keynes to be cautiously optimistic, writing in 1927 that the \"extension of [an] operation beyond a local removal might sometimes be unnecessary.\" Keynes' outlook was considered a radical break from the medical consensus at the time. Keynes wrote in his autobiography that his work with radium \"was regarded with some interest by American surgeons,\" but that the concept of a limited mastectomy failed to gain significant traction in the medical community at the time. His doubts regarding the radical mastectomy were vindicated some 50 years later, when innovators like Bernard Fisher and others revisited his data and pursued what became known as a lumpectomy. Limited surgeries, like the lumpectomy, accompanied by radiation are now the standard treatment for breast cancer.\nKeynes was also a pioneer in the treatment of myasthenia gravis. Much like with breast cancer, the medical community knew little about how to treat the disease at the time. Keynes pioneered the removal of the thymus gland, which is now the standard treatment for myasthenia gravis.\nIn 1955 Keynes received a knighthood for services to medicine.\nLiterary work.\nKeynes maintained a passionate interest in English literature all his life and devoted a large amount of his time to literary scholarship and the science of bibliography. He was a leading authority on the literary and artistic work of William Blake. He also produced biographies and bibliographies of English writers such as Sir Thomas Browne, John Evelyn, Siegfried Sassoon, John Donne and Jane Austen.\nKeynes held the Sandars Readership in Bibliography at Cambridge University in 1933 speaking on \"John Evelyn: a study in bibliography\" which was included in \"John Evelyn: A Study in Bibliophily with a Bibliography of His Writings.\"\nHe was also a pioneer in the history of science, with studies of John Ray, William Harvey and Robert Hooke. His biography \"The Life of William Harvey\" was awarded the 1966 James Tait Black Memorial Prize. Keynes also collected books, with a personal library with around four thousand works.\nHis autobiography \"The Gates of Memory\" was published in 1981, and he died the following year, aged 95. \"The Gates of Memory\" includes anecdotes of Keynes' numerous run-ins and friendships with other famous public figures. For example, Keynes often went climbing with George Mallory, the renowned British mountaineer; he also once performed life-saving treatment on Virginia Woolf after the budding author overdosed on pills.\nPersonal life.\nOn 12 May 1917 Keynes married Margaret Elizabeth Darwin, the daughter of Sir George Howard Darwin and granddaughter of Charles Darwin. They had one daughter, who died in infancy, and four sons:\nKeynes dedicated his life to his work and was also sociable with many friends. He took pride in never having been drunk, and was known by most as an affable, well-mannered man.\nLegacy.\nKeynes' contributions profoundly influenced the fields of surgery and English literature. He pioneered limited breast cancer surgery accompanied by radiation, a strategy that has endured the test of time. His work on William Blake \"was instrumental in establishing Blake as a central figure in the history of English art and literature.\"\nA library of his scholarly works, notes, and correspondences is held by the University of Cambridge."}
{"id": "732332", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732332", "title": "Lord Richard", "text": ""}
{"id": "732333", "revid": "52021802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732333", "title": "Leafy seadragon", "text": "The leafy seadragon (Phycodurus eques) or Glauert's seadragon, is a marine fish. It is the only member of the genus Phycodurus in the family Syngnathidae, which includes seadragons, pipefish, and seahorses.\nIt is found along the southern and western coasts of Australia. The name is derived from their appearance, with long leaf-like protrusions coming from all over the body. These protrusions are not used for propulsion; they serve only as camouflage. The leafy seadragon propels itself utilising a pair of pectoral fins on the sides of its neck and a dorsal fin on its back closer to the tail end. These small fins are almost completely transparent and difficult to see as they undulate minutely to move the creature sedately through the water, completing the illusion of floating seaweed.\nPopularly known as \"leafies\", they are the marine emblem of the state of South Australia and a focus for local marine conservation.\nTaxonomy.\nThe generic name is derived from the Ancient Greek words \u03c6\u1fe6\u03ba\u03bf\u03c2 (\"ph\u00fbkos\") \"seaweed\", and \u03b4\u03ad\u03c1\u03bc\u03b1 (\"d\u00e9rma\"] \"skin\".\nDescription.\nMuch like the seahorse, the leafy seadragon's name is derived from its resemblance to another creature (in this case, the mythical dragon). While not large, they are slightly larger than most seahorses, growing to about . They feed on plankton and small crustaceans.\nThe lobes of skin that grow on the leafy seadragon provide camouflage, giving it the appearance of seaweed. It is able to maintain the illusion when swimming, appearing to move through the water like a piece of floating seaweed. It can also change colour to blend in, but this ability depends on the seadragon's diet, age, location, and stress level.\nThe leafy seadragon is related to the pipefish and belongs to the family Syngnathidae, along with the seahorse. It differs from the seahorse in appearance, form of locomotion, and its inability to coil or grasp things with its tail. A related species is the weedy seadragon, which is multicoloured and grows weed-like fins, but is smaller than the leafy seadragon. Another unique feature is the small, circular gill openings covering tufted gills, very unlike the crescent-shaped gill openings and ridged gills of most fish species.\nHabitat and distribution.\nThe leafy seadragon is found only in southern Australian waters, from Wilson's Promontory in Victoria at the eastern end of its range, westward to Jurien Bay, north of Perth in Western Australia. Individuals were once thought to have very restricted ranges; but further research has discovered that seadragons actually travel several hundred metres from their habitual locations, returning to the same spot using a strong sense of direction. They are mostly found over sand patches in waters up to deep, around kelp-covered rocks and clumps of seagrass. They are commonly sighted by scuba divers near Adelaide in South Australia, especially at Rapid Bay, Edithburgh, and Victor Harbor.\nEcology.\nLeafy seadragons usually live a solitary lifestyle. When the time comes, males court the females, they then pair up to breed. From the moment they hatch, leafy seadragons are completely independent. By the age of two years, they are typically full grown and ready to breed.\nThe species feeds by sucking up small crustaceans, such as amphipods and mysid shrimp, plankton, and larval fish through its long, pipe-like snout.\nReproduction.\nAs with seahorses, the male leafy seadragon cares for the eggs. The female produces up to 250 bright pink eggs, then deposits them onto the male's tail with her ovipositor, a long tube. The eggs then attach themselves to a brood patch, which supplies them with oxygen. After 9 weeks, the eggs begin to hatch, depending on water conditions. The eggs turn a ripe purple or orange over this period, after which the male pumps his tail until the young emerge, a process which takes place over 24\u201348 hours. The male aids the hatching of the eggs by shaking his tail, and rubbing it against seaweed and rocks. Once born, the young seadragon is completely independent, eating small zooplankton until large enough to hunt mysids. Only about 5% of the eggs survive. Each newborn fry begins life with a small, externally-attached yolk-sac. This sac provides them sustenance for their first few days of life. Despite this initial nutrition source, the majority of fry will instinctively learn to hunt and catch prey upon hatching, and will become self-reliant before the sac is gone.\nMovement.\nThe leafy seadragon uses the fins along the side of its head to allow it to steer and turn. However, its outer skin is fairly rigid, limiting mobility. Individual leafy seadragons have been observed remaining in one location for extended periods of time (up to 68 hours), but will sometimes move for lengthy periods. The tracking of one individual indicated it moved at up to per hour.\nConservation.\nLeafy seadragons are subject to many threats, both natural and man-made. They are caught by collectors, but unlike other syngnathid fish, are not used in alternative medicine. They are vulnerable when first born, and are slow swimmers, reducing their chance of escaping from a predator. Seadragons are sometimes washed ashore after storms.\nThe species has become endangered through pollution and industrial runoff, as well as collection for the aquarium trade. In response to these dangers, the species has been totally protected in South Australia since 1987, Victoria since at least 1995, and Western Australia since 1991. Additionally, the species' listing in the Australian government's \"Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999\" means that the welfare of the species has to be considered as a part of any developmental project.\nIn captivity.\nDue to being protected by law, obtaining seadragons is often an expensive and difficult process as they must be from captive bred stock, and exporters must prove their broodstock were caught before collecting restrictions went into effect, or that they had a license to collect seadragons. Seadragons have a specific level of protection under federal fisheries legislation as well as in most Australian states where they occur. Seadragons are difficult to maintain in aquaria. Success in keeping them has been largely confined to the public aquarium sector, due to funding and knowledge that would not be available to the average enthusiast. Attempts to breed the leafy seadragon in captivity have so far been unsuccessful.\nAustralia.\nAustralian aquaria featuring leafy seadragons include the Sydney Aquarium, the Melbourne Aquarium, and the Aquarium of Western Australia.\nCanada.\nRipley's Aquarium of Canada in Toronto displays both leafy and weedy seadragons.\nSouth East Asia.\nS.E.A. Aquarium, located in the Marine Life Park of Singapore, displays both leafy and weedy seadragons.\nUnited States.\nA number of aquaria in the United States have leafy seadragon research programs or displays. Among these are the Adventure Aquarium in Camden, New Jersey; Aquarium of the Pacific at Long Beach; Birch Aquarium in San Diego; the Minnesota Zoo; Monterey Bay Aquarium; the Dallas World Aquarium &amp; the Dallas Children's Aquarium, Dallas; the New England Aquarium, Boston; the Point Defiance Zoo &amp; Aquarium in Tacoma, Washington; the Newport Aquarium in Kentucky, the Shedd Aquarium, Chicago; the California Academy of Sciences; the Tennessee Aquarium; Sea World Orlando, Florida; the Pittsburgh Zoo &amp; PPG Aquarium; Ripley's Aquarium of the Smokies, Gatlinburg, Tennessee; the Florida Aquarium in Tampa, Florida; the Mote Aquarium in Sarasota, Florida; and Ripley's Aquarium Broadway at Myrtle Beach, South Carolina.\nEurope.\nThe Lisbon Aquarium (Lisboa Oceanarium) has both leafy sea dragons and weedy sea dragons.\nCultural references.\nThe leafy seadragon is the official marine emblem of the state of South Australia. It is also featured in the logos of the Adelaide University Scuba Club Inc. and the Marine Life Society of South Australia Inc., two South Australian associations.\nA biennial Leafy Sea Dragon Festival is held within the boundaries of the District Council of Yankalilla in South Australia. It is a festival of the environment, arts and culture of the Fleurieu Peninsula, with the theme of celebrating the leafy seadragon. The inaugural festival in 2005 attracted over 7,000 participants including 4000 visitors.\nIn 2006, an animated short film, \"The Amazing Adventures of Gavin, a Leafy Seadragon\", was made on behalf of several South Australian organisations involved in conserving the marine environment, including the Coast Protection Board, the Department of Environment and Heritage and the Marine Discovery Centre. Made through a collaboration of The People's Republic of Animation, Waterline Productions and the SA Film Corporation, the film is an introductory guide to marine conservation and the marine bioregions of South Australia suitable for 8\u201312 year olds, and copies were distributed on DVD to all primary schools in the State. An educator's resource kit to accompany the film was released in 2008.\nExternal links.\nAustralia\nInternational"}
{"id": "732334", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732334", "title": "Baron Richard", "text": ""}
{"id": "732335", "revid": "3145267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732335", "title": "Great patriotic war", "text": ""}
{"id": "732336", "revid": "20585603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732336", "title": "Lady Dunn", "text": "Lady Dunn may refer to:"}
{"id": "732338", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732338", "title": "Baron Waddington", "text": ""}
{"id": "732339", "revid": "45775227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732339", "title": "External Short Messaging Entity", "text": "External Short Messaging Entity (ESME) is an external application that connects to a Short Message Service Center (SMSC) to engage in the sending or receiving of SMS messages. The term was coined by Aldiscon.\nSME is a term used in many cellular circles to describe a network entity (mobile/cell phone) that can send/receive messages. ESME (pronounced EZ-mee) is essentially one of these but without all the wireless aspects; i.e. it is connected via TCP/IP, X.25 or similar. On SMPP 3.4 protocol specifications ESME refers only to external sources and sinks of short messages as Voice Processing Systems, WAP Proxy Servers or Message Handling computers, and it specifically excludes SMEs which are located within the Mobile Network, i.e., a mobile station (MS).\nTypical examples of ESMEs are systems that send automated marketing messages to mobile users and voting systems that process SMS votes (\"Pop Idol\", \"Big Brother\").\nSMSC uses protocols such as SMPP, UCP, OIS, CIMD, SMCI all of which denote the concept of an ESME connecting to an SMSC.\nRelation between SMSC and ESME.\nESME always connects to SMSC using a TCP/IP, X.25, etc. and then binds for the service it needs from SMSC.\nFor SMPP it can bind for Receiving only service, Transmitting only service or both (Transceiver service). Before SMPP 3.4 it was required to have two different connections, one for Transmitting and the other one for Receiving. Starting with SMPP 3.4 a Transceiver connection is enough for both.\nThe relation between ESME and SMSC is somehow a master-slave relation because SMSC is providing services to ESME, and usually ESME just uses these services from SMSC. One of the functions of the SMSC is to store and forward the messages while the ESME does not have this function. When a message is sent by an ESME to SMSC towards its destination, this message may stay in a SMSC queue until its destination will become available. During this time the ESME has the options to cancel the message in queue, to replace it or to check its status. ESME can also send a message to multiple destinations which will be handled by SMSC.\nESME are usually termination points of an SMS network while SMSC are the core of it. SMSC can connect between them while ESME only connects to an SMSC. SMPP protocol is designed exactly in this manner for connecting a small end of the SMS network (which is an ESME) to the entire SMS network (which is done through the SMSC)\nESME is submitting MTs to SMSC, while SMSC is delivering MOs to ESME.\nRouting in SMSC for ESME.\nAn example of how the routing can be done at SMSC level, but not mandatory as this depends a lot on the implementation of SMSC and the way the connection inside the SMSC is between routing part of the SMSC and SMPP interface can be as below:\nDuring the service agreement between ESME and service provider (SMSC side) one unique short code will be allocated to ESME. At the SMSC end smpp server will have list of all ESME address and active connection. When any message gets sent to short code, messages first comes to SMSC, SMSC decodes it according to GSM 3.4 spec, then one of the modules in SMSC checks the destination address and if it is short code then that module routes messages to SMPP server part of the SMSC. Now SMPP server will have all active connection, according to destination address it selects the ESME - SMPP server connection object, that object will be responsible to encode message according to SMPP protocol and forward to ESME.\nCommunication between SMSC and ESME can be on either SMPP or HTTP.\nIf one has a SMPP account, they could connect to the SMPP IP+Port on TCP/IP and the SMPP will push MOs to ESME on SMPP connection, and ESME will push MTs on the same connection in reverse.\nIf they have a HTTP account with the operator's SMSC, then the SMSC will submit MO to a given URL and to push MTs SMSC will be given on URL."}
{"id": "732340", "revid": "37005538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732340", "title": "Neuroticfish", "text": "Neuroticfish is a German musical project whose styles are borrowed from electronic body music, futurepop, and synthpop, as well as other types of electronic music. It has released music on the Dancing Ferret Discs record label.\nHistory.\nNeuroticfish's sole member is Sascha Mario Klein. Klein cites his musical inspirations as such bands as Skinny Puppy, Nine Inch Nails, The Cure, and Depeche Mode, and began experimenting with music on his own in the early 90s. After starting Neuroticfish, Klein did not make the typical efforts of a musician to send out a demo; instead, he relied on the internet to release and promote his music. Klein was eventually offered a place on a synthpop sampler called A Reflexion of Synthpop, which allowed the project to gain popularity within the club scene.\nThe project gained some notoriety for two songs\u2014\"Black Again\" and \"Prostitute\"\u2014containing the sample \"Electronic body music is dead\", which Neuroticfish adopted as a catchphrase. The single \"The Bomb\" contains advertisement for the band's website, www.ebmisdead.com.\nIn 2002, two singles charted on the Deutsche Alternative Charts: \"Prostitute\" at number 3 for 8 weeks and \"WakeMeUp!\" at number 4, also for 8 weeks.\nOn 4 January 2008, the official Neuroticfish MySpace page announced that the band would cease to exist after its performance at the 2008 Wave-Gotik-Treffen festival in Leipzig, Germany. On 12 May, the official web site for the project stated that the musical project had been \"closed\".\nOn 20 July 2012 an official Facebook page and Homepage resurfaced, stating that Neuroticfish are back and working on a new album.\nOn March 13, 2013, a new Song (\"Former Me\") was released on SoundCloud.\nOn July 4, 2013, the band revealed a new track off the upcoming album (\"Illusion of Home\") on SoundCloud, which received more than 1000 plays in the first 24 hours of being uploaded. In an interview with South African music news website Downtuned.co.za a few days later, the band confirmed that the album title would be \"A Sign of Life\", and that the band was aiming for release later in the year. Although it would be delayed, the album saw release on March 27, 2015."}
{"id": "732341", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732341", "title": "Baron Renfrew of Kaimsthorn", "text": ""}
{"id": "732343", "revid": "665998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732343", "title": "Lord Rix", "text": ""}
{"id": "732344", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732344", "title": "Baron Rodgers of Quarry Bank", "text": ""}
{"id": "732346", "revid": "25820411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732346", "title": "Lady Thatcher", "text": ""}
{"id": "732347", "revid": "11521989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732347", "title": "Dismantled", "text": "Dismantled (born Gary Zon) is an electronic music artist from the United States.\nHistory.\nDismantled is the product of an experiment that began in late 2000 by Gary Zon, who was attempting to create something similar to Front Line Assembly's sound. After overwhelming positive feedback from online listeners, Gary began further sonic construction by drawing influences from television, movies, and music as well as adding vocals into the mix. The resulting sound was a unique blend of very melodic, yet complex mix of layered electro-industrial merged with intelligent dance music elements. This dark, brooding, futuristic ensemble yielded more and more positive feedback, while comparing it to Front Line Assembly, Haujobb, Wumpscut and Velvet Acid Christ.\nDismantled's first and only demo release came in March 2001 through mp3.com. Demo Variation was sent to labels and radio stations. After four months of waiting, the demo caught the attention of dependent, who released the track \"Purity\" on their Septic II compilation alongside of such bands as Apoptygma Berzerk, Front Line Assembly, and VNV Nation. In late October 2001, Metropolis Records contacted Zon and expressed interest in working with Dismantled.\nIn 2002, another Dismantled song, \"Survivor,\" landed a place on the Dystopian Visions Resist the Command 2 compilation, and Dismantled won a re-mix contest for Wumpscut's \"Wreath of Barbs.\" The self-titled debut of Dismantled was released June 4 on Metropolis Records for North America and dependent for Europe. Several media publications named Dismantled the electronic newcomer of the year for 2002.\nDismantled's 2004 second release, \"Post Nuclear\", set a new standard for aggro-electro. Gary also added supporting members to the live line-up; \"Loud\" Chris DeMarcus on keys/percussion, Adrian White on Drums, Jimie Kurczodyna on bass/keyboards, and Dale on bass/keyboards. Not only were there aggressive and edgy songs, but also tracks with a softer side that help to offset the release. Atmospheric layers drenched in crunchy synths, distorted beats, growling vocals, clean melodies, and cleverly hidden samples highlighted the different aspects of Post Nuclear.\nAfter the success of the critically acclaimed album, \"Post Nuclear\", Dismantled remained busy in the studio preparing their next album, \"Standard Issue\", which was released in 2006. As a preview of the album, Dismantled presented the Breed To Death EP. Described by Gary Zon himself as having a \"predictable, club-oriented sound that is a reaction to the social grid surrounding me at the present time,\" Breed to Death is designed for the clubs. A fusion of 80's, electro-clash, and trance alongside traditional electro elements and harsh synthetics, the title track was meant to exaggerate and stereotype the new wave of electro, as well as balance the edge and complexity inherent in Dismantled's music. It was supporting \"Standard Issue\" that brought the band to Europe to perform for 2007's Wave-Gotik-Treffen. There Zon was supported by Brian DiDomenico on keyboards and Jon Siren on drums, both of Mankind Is Obsolete\nMore recently, Gary Zon is also involved in two side projects. One is Aerodrone, an electroclash band signed to Warner/Cordless Records. The other, which includes female vocalist TZA, is called no.not.never. No.not.never's sound is that of melodic futurepop and alternative rock.\nDismantled has since participated in tours supporting Combichrist in the US in 2009 and in Europe in 2010 featuring the lineup of TZA on keyboards and Jon Siren on drums with an appearance at GothicFest in the Netherlands supporting Skinny Puppy revealing some new tracks for the upcoming album. On June 14, 2011, Zon is slated to release \"The War Inside Me\" on Metropolis Records."}
{"id": "732348", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732348", "title": "James Hinks", "text": "James Hinks (7 January 1829 \u2013 10 October 1878) was a dog breeder who bred and named the English Bull Terrier in the 1860s, as well as the English White Terrier. He lived most of his life in Birmingham and died there in 1878.\nBiography.\nHinks was born in 1829 in the town of Mullingar in Ireland, his father being a shoemaker from Birmingham in England named John Hinks. They returned to Birmingham shortly after James' birth. The elder James worked in the industrial sector, where Hinks Jr. began to work in the forges. This same year he married Elizabeth Moore and they had three children, the eldest, James II, a girl named Mary and the youngest, Frederick. Already by 1854 Hinks began to trade with poultry, which gave him a better status and as a hobby had the breeding of ornamental birds, wild mice. With his bulldog \"Old Madman\" he started raising dogs, and his social position and comforts for his family improved. In 1858 a fourth son was born, Alfred, and in 1864 the family already had eight children in total, it was not until the sixties that Hinks appeared registered in the address book as a breeder of birds and dogs. Hinks died at the young age of 47, affected by a deadly tuburculosis, and his inheritance according to his testament was at the hands of his wife Elizabeth.\nBull terrier.\nAlthough very little is known about the crossings that Hinks carried out to obtain the Bull Terriers, it is documented by Henry Walsh, that perhaps Hinks used the old English Bulldog, English White Terrier, the Dalmatian and perhaps even the Greyhound. Without a doubt it was his dog Old Madman, who being raised for exhibitions and not for fights played a determining role in the birth of the new race. As part of the folklore of the race, it is said that the dog of Hinks, called \"Puss\", after an exhibition or during it, fought against a bitch bull and terrier owned by Mr. Tupper and after half an hour, Puss returned triumphantly with small marks on his snout.\nBetween 1855 and 1868 Hinks was the owner of at least the following dogs: Bull Terrier \"Spring\" (Jerry x Daisy), \"Bulldog Nettle\" (Grip x Nettle), Bull Terrier, \"Young Puss\" (Old Madman x Old Puss), the Terrier, \"Lady\" (Stormer x Daisy), Bull Terrier, \"Kit\" (unknown pedigree), Dalmatian, \"Spot\" (Joss x Dinah) and a Greyhound called \"Dart\" (Chap x Fly). Hinks even was the owner of all the parents of these dogs and not only Hinks contributed to the development of the Bull Terrier breed, but all those people who bought their white puppies, and it was not until after 1900 that he had a colored Bull\nThe legacy of Hinks is known worldwide, and his sons James II and Frederick, continued the work of his father including the son of James II, Carleton, was a breeder of the breed until his death in 1977. This being the way to honor the passionate work of his grandfather and his love for exhibition, breeding and their dogs."}
{"id": "732349", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732349", "title": "Baron Parkinson of Carnforth", "text": ""}
{"id": "732350", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732350", "title": "Henri Michaux", "text": "Henri Michaux (; 24 May 1899 \u2013 19 October 1984) was a Belgian-born French experimental poet, writer and painter. Michaux is renowned for his strange, highly original poetry and prose, and also for his art: the Paris Museum of Modern Art and the Guggenheim Museum in New York had shows of his work in 1978 (see below, Visual Arts). His autobiographical texts that chronicle his psychedelic experiments with LSD and mescaline include \"Miserable Miracle\" and \"The Major Ordeals of the Mind and the Countless Minor Ones\". He is recognised for his idiosyncratic travelogues and books of art criticism. Michaux is also known for his stories about Plume \u2013 \"a peaceable man\" \u2013 one of the most unenterprising heroes in literature, a character subject to many misfortunes.\nHis poetic works have often been republished in France, where they are studied along with significant poets of French literature. In 1955 he became a citizen of France, and he lived the rest of his life there. He became a friend of Romanian pessimist philosopher Emil Cioran around the same time, along with other literary luminaries in France. In 1965 he won the grand prix national des Lettres, which he refused to accept, as he did every honor he was accorded in his life.\nBiography.\nTravels.\nIn 1930 and 1931, Michaux visited Japan, China and India. The result of this trip was the book \"A Barbarian in Asia\". Asian culture became one of his biggest influences. The philosophy of Buddhism and calligraphy later became principal subjects of many of his poems and inspired many of his drawings. He also visited Ecuador and published a travelogue book of the same name. His travels across the Americas finished in Brazil in 1939, and he stayed there for two years.\nVisual arts.\nMichaux was a visual artist of some originality, associated with the Tachiste movement in the 1940s and 50s, although that describes only a small part of his artistic achievement\u2014for example, his hallucinatory representations of faces and heads. His work often makes use of dense, suggestively gestural strokes that incorporate elements of calligraphy, asemic writing, and abstract expressionism. The Museum of Modern Art in Paris and the Guggenheim Museum in New York both had shows of his work in 1978.\nAdaptations.\nJapanese animator Ryo Orikasa adapted Michaux's poetry for the 2023 short film \"Miserable Miracle\", winner of the top animated short prize at the Ottawa International Animation Festival.\nWorks.\nHis complete works were published by Gallimard in three volumes of the Pl\u00e9iade series, 1998\u20132004."}
{"id": "732351", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732351", "title": "Lord Parkinson of Carnforth", "text": ""}
{"id": "732353", "revid": "492039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732353", "title": "Yuri Olyesha", "text": ""}
{"id": "732355", "revid": "52101679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732355", "title": "San Francisco volcanic field", "text": "The San Francisco volcanic field is an area of volcanoes in northern Arizona, north of Flagstaff, US. The field covers 1,800 square miles (4,700\u00a0km2) of the southern boundary of the Colorado Plateau. The field contains over 600 volcanoes ranging in age from nearly 6 million years old to less than 1,000 years (Miocene to Holocene), of which Sunset Crater is the youngest. The highest peak in the field is Humphreys Peak, at Flagstaff's northern perimeter: the peak is Arizona's highest at 12,633 feet (3,851.5 m) and is a part of the San Francisco Peaks, an active stratovolcano complex.\nDescription.\nThe first volcanoes in the San Francisco Volcanic Field began to erupt about 6 million years ago, in an area where the town of Williams, Arizona is now. Subsequently, a several-mile-wide belt of successively younger eruptions migrated eastward, to the area of modern Flagstaff, Arizona, and beyond toward the valley of the Little Colorado River. Today, this belt of volcanoes extends about from west to east.\nMost volcanoes are located near boundaries of the Earth's tectonic plates, but Arizona is well within the interior of the North American Plate. Some geologists suggest that there is a site of localized melting fixed deep within the Earth\u2019s mantle beneath northern Arizona. As the North American Plate moves slowly westward over a stationary source of magma, eruptions produce volcanoes that are strung out progressively eastward. By looking at seismic waves and studying elements and isotopes within rocks from the region, scientists now believe that the layers of molten material in the mantle circulate beneath the Colorado Plateau. Warm material from the asthenosphere is able to invade the lithosphere. The influx of hotter asthenospheric material below the crust provides the heat necessary for volcanism.\nMost of the more than 600 volcanoes in the San Francisco Volcanic Field are monogenetic basalt cinder cones. The cinder cones are relatively small, usually less than tall, and formed within months to years. They are built when gas-charged frothy blobs of basalt magma are erupted as a lava fountain. During flight, these lava blobs cool and fall back to the ground as dark volcanic rock containing cavities created by trapped gas bubbles. If small, these fragments of rock are called \u201ccinders\u201d and, if larger, \u201cbombs.\u201d As the fragments accumulate, they build a cone-shaped hill. Once sufficient gas pressure has been released from the supply of magma, lava oozes quietly out to form a lava flow. This lava typically squeezes out from the base of the cone and tends to flow away for a substantial distance because of its low viscosity. SP Crater, north of Flagstaff, is an excellent example of a cinder cone, and its associated lava flow extends for to the north of the cone. Several zones of concentrated eruptive activity have been identified \u2013 the more silicic volcanic centers appear to have begun with basaltic activity and then evolved to more silicic compositions.\nSan Francisco Mountain is the only stratovolcano in the San Francisco Volcanic Field. Stratovolcanoes have moderately steep slopes and form by the accumulation of layer upon layer of andesite lava flows, cinders, and ash, interspersed with deposits from volcanic mudflows at lower elevations. San Francisco Mountain was built by eruptions between about 1 and 0.4 million years ago. Since then, much of the mountain has been removed to create the \u201cInner Basin.\u201d The missing material may have been removed quickly and explosively by an eruption similar to the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens, Washington, or it may have been removed slowly and incrementally by a combination of large landslides, water erosion, and glacial scouring.\nThe San Francisco Volcanic Field also includes several lava domes, formed by highly-viscous dacite and rhyolite magmas. These magmas are so viscous that they tend to pile up and form very steep-sided bulbous domes at the site of eruption. Domes can be active for decades or sometimes centuries. Mount Elden, at the eastern outskirts of Flagstaff, is an excellent example of an exogenous dacite dome and consists of several overlapping lobes of lava. Sugarloaf Peak, at the entrance to San Francisco Mountain\u2019s Inner Basin, is a rhyolite lava dome.\nFuture.\nAlthough there has been no eruption for nearly 1,000 years, it is likely that eruptions will occur again in the San Francisco Volcanic Field. With an average interval of several thousand years between past periods of volcanic activity, it is impossible to forecast when the next eruption will occur. USGS scientists believe that the most probable sites of future eruptions are in the eastern part of the field and that the eruptions are likely to be small. These future eruptions may provide spectacular volcanic displays but should pose little hazard because of their small size and the relative remoteness of the area.\nVisitation and usage.\nPopular tourist and hiking destinations in the volcanic field include the Kendrick Mountain Wilderness, 20 miles northwest of Flagstaff; and Sunset Crater. Sunset Crater has a hiking trail along an \u02bba\u02bb\u0101 lava flow to its base.\nAreas of the volcanic field have been used by NASA for testing techniques for exploration in a simulated extraterrestrial terrain environment. NASA has also conducted the Desert Research and Technology Studies (DRATS) tests here."}
{"id": "732356", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732356", "title": "Baron Merlyn-Rees", "text": ""}
{"id": "732357", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732357", "title": "Lord Moore of Lower Marsh", "text": ""}
{"id": "732358", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732358", "title": "Yury Olesha", "text": "Yury Karlovich Olesha (, \u2013 10 May 1960) was a Russian and Soviet novelist. He is considered one of the greatest Russian novelists of the 20th century, one of the few to have succeeded in writing works of lasting artistic value despite the stifling censorship of the era. His works are delicate balancing acts that superficially send pro-Communist messages but reveal far greater subtlety and richness upon a deeper reading. Sometimes, he is grouped with his friends Ilf and Petrov, Isaac Babel, and Sigismund Krzhizhanovsky into the Odessa School of Writers.\nBiography.\nYuri Olesha was born on to Catholic parents of Polish descent in Elizavetgrad (now Kropyvnytskyi, Ukraine). Olesha's father, Karl Antonovich, was an impoverished landowner who later became a government inspector of alcohol and developed a proclivity for drinking and gambling. In 1902 Olesha and his family settled in Odessa, where Yuri would eventually meet many of his fellow writers such as Isaac Babel, Ilya Ilf, and Valentin Kataev, and ultimately maintain a lifelong friendship with the latter. As a student, Yuri demonstrated a knack for science but favored literature above his other subjects and began writing during the year before his graduation cum laude from high school. In 1917 Olesha entered law school but postponed his studies two years later to volunteer for the Red Army during the Civil War; during this time, Olesha began producing propaganda for the revolution.\nOlesha's writing career began while he was involved with the literary group of young writers in Odessa called \"The Green Lamp,\" which included not only Kataev and Olesha, but such influential writers as Eduard Bagritski and Dmitry Merezhkovsky. He also formed a close friendship with Isaac Babel. Olesha continued to produce propaganda materials for the revolution in Odessa and then in Kharkov, where he relocated in 1921. In 1922, Olesha published his first short story, \"Angel,\" and moved to Moscow the same year to work at a popular railway worker's periodical called \"The Whistle\". Here Olesha began writing featured satirical poetry under the pseudonym \"\u0417\u0443\u0431\u0438\u043b\u043e\" (\"The Chisel\"), eventually publishing two collections of poems in 1924 and 1927 before turning to prose writing and drama.\nOlesha's literary debut would also become one of his most popular works: the novel \"Envy\", which he published in 1927, follows five leading characters. Largely regarded as his greatest work, the novel thematically contrasts the old and new order, as well as individualism and collectivism, in Soviet Russia. During this period Olesha published another popular success: the fairy tale \"The Three Fat Men\" which he wrote in 1924 but did not publish until the year after his initial literary success. Olesha also wrote several short stories in the 1920s and 1930s, the most prominent of which are \"Liompa\" (1928), \"The Cherry Stone\" (1929), and \"Natasha\" (1936). In addition to prose fiction, Olesha also wrote for the stage, not only adapting his novel \"Envy\" for the theater in 1929 under the title \"Conspiracy of Feelings\", but also writing an original play called \"A List of Assets\" in 1931 and dramatizing Dostoevsky's novel \"The Idiot\" later in life.\n\"The Right to Despair\".\nIn the 1930s and 1940s Olesha found it increasingly difficult to publish his work as a result of stringent Stalinist censorship. Speaking to the First Congress of Soviet Writers, he said that he could not write about workers and industrial production, as required of Soviet writers, because \"it is difficult for me to understand the type of worker, the type of revolutionary hero. I can't be them.\"\nEarly in 1936, after Stalin had instigated a public attack on Dmitri Shostakovich, a report filed at the headquarters of the NKVD quoted Olesha as saying that the composer was \"a brilliant, and a blow against Shostakovich is a calamity for art.\" He had written the script of a film \"A Severe Young Man\", directed by Abram Room, which dealt with inequalities in Soviet society, but according to the same police report, he feared it would be banned because it was \"many times more left-art than Shostakovich\" The film was suppressed until the 1970s. In August 1936, he allowed himself to be pressured into signing a declaration calling for death sentences for the defendants at the first of the Moscow show trials, but when the praesidium of the writers' union discussed Boris Pasternak's refusal to sign a similar denunciation, Olesha defended him as \"a perfectly soviet person\".\nWhen Isaac Babel was under arrest, in 1940, he told his interrogators that Olesha was practising \"the right to despair\"\u2014by getting into a series of loud arguments in taverns. Despite continuing to write and edit, Olesha's career was stunted by his political environment, and on 10 May 1960 the author died of heart failure."}
{"id": "732359", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732359", "title": "Baron Moore of Lower Marsh", "text": ""}
