{"id": "761546", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761546", "title": "Gareth Evans (politician)", "text": "Gareth John Evans (born 5 September 1944) is an Australian politician, international policymaker, academic, and barrister. He represented the Labor Party in the Senate and House of Representatives from 1978 to 1999, serving as a Cabinet Minister in the Hawke and Keating governments from 1983 to 1996 as Attorney-General, Minister for Resources and Energy, Minister for Transport and Communications and most prominently, from 1988 to 1996, as Minister for Foreign Affairs. He was Leader of the Government in the Senate from 1993 to 1996, Deputy Leader of the Opposition from 1996 to 1998, and remains one of the two longest-serving federal Cabinet Ministers in Labor Party history.\nAfter leaving politics, he was president and chief executive officer of the Brussels-based International Crisis Group from 2000 to 2009. On returning to Australia he was appointed in 2009 honorary professorial fellow at the University of Melbourne. He has served on a number of major international commissions and panels, including as co-chair of the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty (2000\u201301) and the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament (2008\u201310). Evans has written extensively on international relations and legal, constitutional and political affairs, and has been internationally recognised for his contributions to the theory and practice of mass atrocity and conflict prevention, arms control and disarmament.\nFrom 2010 to 2020, Evans was the Chancellor of the Australian National University (ANU). He was appointed an Honorary Professorial Fellow at the ANU in 2012.\nEarly life and education.\nEvans was born in Melbourne, Victoria. His Welsh father was a tram driver, and his mother, who had been a wartime Woolworths store manager, ran a small baby-wear business from home. He was educated at Hawthorn West Central School (1950\u201357); Melbourne High School, where he was school captain (1958\u201361); the University of Melbourne (1962\u201367) where he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws with First-Class Honours, sharing the Supreme Court Prize, was a Member of the Melbourne University Law Review and was President of the Students Representative Council from 1964 to 1966; and Magdalen College, Oxford (1968\u201370), where he attended on a Shell scholarship and graduated with a Master of Arts with First-Class Honours in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE).\nCareer.\nIn 2004, he was elected an Honorary Fellow of Magdalen College, his alma mater at Oxford.\nFrom 1971 to 1976, he was law academic at the University of Melbourne, teaching crime, torts, civil liberties law and federal constitutional law, and becoming a prominent commentator on legal issues, especially at the time of the dismissal of the Whitlam Government in 1975. In 1977 he edited \"Labor and the Constitution\" 1972\u201375, a collection of essays on constitutional issues arising during the life of the Whitlam government, and later co-authored \"Australia's Constitution\", arguing for major constitutional reforms. From 1976 to his entry into the Parliament he practised full-time as a barrister, specialising in industrial law, and appellate argument, and became a Queen's Counsel (in Victoria and the ACT) in 1983.\nEvans was active in civil liberties issues from his student days on, campaigning on issues such as censorship, capital punishment, the White Australia policy, apartheid and abortion law reform. He was a long-serving vice-president of the Victorian Council for Civil Liberties (now Liberty Victoria), and an active executive member of the Victorian Aboriginal Legal Service.\nDuring the Whitlam Labor government, he acted as a consultant to Aboriginal Affairs Minister Gordon Bryant, advising on Indigenous land rights and legal services issues, and Attorney-General Lionel Murphy, where he was closely involved in drafting the \"Racial Discrimination Act 1975\" and the (unsuccessful) Human Rights Bill 1973. He was appointed by Murphy as a foundation member of the Australian Law Reform Commission, chaired by Justice Michael Kirby, and was primarily responsible for the commission's 1975 report on \"Criminal Investigation\".\nEvans joined the Australian Labor Party while at University of Melbourne and became actively involved after his return from Oxford in 1975, joining the centrist Labor Unity faction and working closely with its leaders including Clyde Holding, Peter Redlich and Ian Turner \u2013 and Bob Hawke, whose ambition to lead the party he strongly supported. He was an unsuccessful Labor candidate for the Senate in 1975, but was elected in 1977 and took his seat in 1978.\nParliamentary and ministerial career.\nOpposition, 1978\u20131983.\nAs a young backbencher, Evans was one of the two parliamentarians chosen to sit \u2013 along with international architects I. M. Pei and John Andrews \u2013 on the Parliament House Competition Assessment Panel which in 1979 chose the winning design for the new Australian Parliament House.\nIn his first years in the Senate, Evans focused strongly on legal and constitutional reform issues, attracting early attention with his series of attacks on Sir Garfield Barwick, for potential conflict of interest between his role as the Chief Justice of the High Court and his involvement in his family company Mundroola. After the October 1980 election he was promoted to the Opposition front bench in 1980, becoming Shadow Attorney-General.\nEvans played an active part in ALP National Conferences during this period seeking to modernize the party's platform, in particular the language of the \"socialist objective\", and within the Parliamentary Party in developing a detailed \"transition to government\" strategy. He supported Bob Hawke's leadership challenge against Bill Hayden in 1982 which led ultimately to Hayden resigning just hours before Malcolm Fraser announced the March 1983 election and Hawke leading Labor to victory.\nAttorney-General, 1983\u20131984.\nAs Attorney-General, Evans undertook a large agenda for law reform on a range of issues. He immediately ran into controversy, arranging for the Royal Australian Air Force to take surveillance photos of the Franklin Dam project in Tasmania. The Hawke government was pledged to (and ultimately did) stop the project, over the objections of the Tasmanian Liberal government, on the ground that it endangered a World Heritage listed area. The Hawke government was accused of misusing the RAAF for domestic political purposes, and Evans's use of RAAF planes led to his earning the nickname \"Biggles\", after Captain W. E. Johns's fictional aviation hero \u2013 a self-inflicted wound, following his remark to journalists at the time \"whatever you do, don't call me Biggles\". This incident also led to Evans coining the expression \"streaker's defence\" (i.e. \"it seemed like a good idea at the time\"), which has entered the Australian vocabulary. More serious controversy surrounded the Government's handling of national security issues including the Combe-Ivanov affair and the attempted suppression of publication of leaked documents by journalist Brian Toohey, and the allegations of impropriety made against High Court Justice Lionel Murphy, all of which created stress for Evans as an avowed civil libertarian. He achieved a number of reforms, including the establishment of the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions and the National Crime Authority, the strengthening of the Family Law and \"Freedom of Information Act\", and some business regulation changes, but failed in his attempts to achieve uniform national defamation law, a legislative bill of rights, and constitutional reform. In a demotion following this mixed record, Hawke moved him to the less sensitive portfolio of Resources and Energy after the 1984 election.\nResources, energy, transport and communications, 1984\u20131988.\nIn the two major industry portfolios he held over the next five years, Evans was generally perceived as playing himself back into the government mainstream. As Minister for Resources and Energy from 1984 to 1987 he won industry support for his role in rescuing from possible collapse of the huge North West Shelf gas project, managing the Australian fallout from the crash in world oil prices in 1986, and seeking to strike a workable balance, between resource sector and competing interests, on uranium mining, the environment and Aboriginal land rights.\nIn February 1987, shortly after his appointment as Manager of Government Business in the Senate, Evans caused controversy by making comments comparing a Senate debate to rape, stating \"that if rape is inevitable, one might as well if not enjoy it, at least succumb with such grace as one can muster in the circumstances\". His ALP colleague Susan Ryan asked him to withdraw the comment, but he refused to do so. The Canberra Rape Crisis Centre requested that Evans apologise and staged a protest in the public gallery of the Senate two days later. On the same day, Evans caused further controversy by comparing three female Liberal senators to a half-back line and stated that they were among \"things [that] frighten me\". In a personal explanation to the Senate he said his remarks were a throwaway line and that he \"did not say, nor would I ever say, in jest or otherwise, that rape could ever be enjoyed\".\nAs Transport and Communications minister in 1987\u201388, he was involved in some controversy with the Australian Broadcasting Commission over funding guarantees and charter reform, but primarily concerned with issues at the heart of the government's micro-economic strategy: major airline deregulation, and the reform of government business enterprises in the telecommunications and other sectors, designed to corporatize their commercial practices, as a necessary prelude to the privatisation that later followed.\nMinister for Foreign Affairs, 1988\u20131996.\nEvans was appointed Foreign Minister in September 1988, after his predecessor Bill Hayden retired to become Governor-General. He held the position for seven years and six months, the longest-serving Labor minister in that portfolio, since Evatt. He became a well-known Foreign Minister and highly regarded internationally, and continues to be regarded as one of Australia's most successful. The Hawke and Keating governments were committed to shifting emphasis from Australia's traditional relationships with the United States and the United Kingdom to increased involvement with Asian neighbours, particularly Indonesia and China, and were strongly committed to multilateral diplomacy both globally and regionally.\nEvans brought a strongly structured and analytical approach to foreign policymaking and is credited with significant innovative thinking in his articulation, in particular, of the concepts of middle power and niche diplomacy, \"good international citizenship\" as a national interest, and cooperative security (see \"Contributions to international relations thinking\", below).\nHis most widely acknowledged successes as foreign minister were his initiation of the UN peace plan for Cambodia, and the roles that he and Australia played in bringing to fruition the International Chemical Weapons Convention and establishing both the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum and the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF). Major contributions to international agenda setting, though not bearing much immediate fruit, were his book on UN reform launched in New York City in 1993, and his initiation with Paul Keating of the Canberra Commission on the Elimination of Nuclear Weapons.\nIn 1990, Evans famously became the first person to drop the f-bomb in the Australian Parliament, interjecting \"for fuck's sake\" during a speech by Senator Robert Hill. Despite his reputation as a negotiator he was widely reputed to be in possession of a short-temper with a particular intolerance for elected representatives of the Australian Greens.\nEvans ran into significant controversy on two major issues: relations with Indonesia over East Timor and French Nuclear Tests in the Pacific. Evans continues to be strongly criticised by many commentators \u2013 most prominently Noam Chomsky and John Pilger \u2013 for supporting Australia's recognition of Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor following its military invasion in 1975, negotiating (and celebrating \"replete with champagne\") with then Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas the Timor Gap Treaty, and describing the 1991 Dili massacre as \"an aberration, not an act of state policy\". Evans has replied at length to these charges in various forums, acknowledging that the Indonesian military's behaviour had been appalling and conceding that Australia had been too optimistic about its capacity for redemption, but arguing, that de jure recognition by Australian (and other) governments had never denied the continuing right of the East Timorese to self-determination; that he personally had worked hard (as subsequently acknowledged by Jos\u00e9 Ramos-Horta) to achieve real autonomy for East Timor as the only realistic option before the events of 1997; and that independent East Timor had fully inherited the benefits of the Timor Gap Treaty. The Timor Gap Treaty was replaced by the Timor Sea Treaty after East Timor's independence in 2002. However, after the Australia-East Timor spying scandal came to light, East Timor terminated the treaties, which were favorable to Australia. In 2018, the treaty in force today was concluded, which is far more favorable to East Timor.\nWhen in June 1995 the resumption of French underground nuclear tests at Moruroa Atoll was announced, Evans generated a storm of press and public criticism for remarking that while Australia deplored the decision \"it could have been worse\". This was strictly accurate as the test series was limited in number, and France promised to then permanently close the test facility and join the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty negotiations, but it politically damaged Evans and his party.\nLeader of the government in the Senate, 1993\u20131996.\nIn 1993, as a member of the Keating government, Senator Evans became Leader of the Government in the Senate, replacing the retiring John Button, whose Deputy he had been since 1987. In this position he led the government's domestic legislative agenda in the upper house, where the government did not have a majority, and every bill had to be negotiated with the minor parties. In what was described at the time as \"perhaps the finest moment in his political career\", he played the leading role in getting the government's Native Title Act 1993 through the Senate in one of the Parliament's longest-ever debates following the High Court of Australia's decision in \"Mabo v Queensland\".\nReturn to opposition, 1996\u20131999.\nEvans had long desired to move from the Senate to the House of Representatives, where he hoped to pursue leadership ambitions. His first attempt to do so, in 1984, had been thwarted by the Socialist Left faction, but in 1995 he gained endorsement for the seat of Holt, in Melbourne's eastern suburbs, and was elected at the 1996 election. He was elected Deputy Leader of the Labor Party, defeating Simon Crean, and appointed Shadow Treasurer by Leader Kim Beazley. As Deputy Leader Evans led a major policy review in every shadow portfolio area, and during 1997 orchestrated in secret the defection to the Labor Party of the popular leader of the Australian Democrats, Senator Cheryl Kernot, who resigned from the Senate in October and became a Labor House of Representatives candidate at the 1998 election. The political triumph of the defection was, however, soured by the later revelation \u2013 by Laurie Oakes in his column in \"The Bulletin\" in 2002 \u2013 that Evans and Kernot had been having an affair at the time.\nEvans, after eighteen years in the Senate, found the transition to the much rowdier and fast-paced lower house environment not easy to manage, and \u2013 with Australia sailing comfortably through the 1997 Asian financial crisis \u2013 also found it difficult to get traction with his own economic policy brief. He also did not enjoy the move to opposition after thirteen years in government, coining the expression \"relevance deprivation syndrome\", which \u2013 while he was criticised more than applauded for his honesty at the time \u2013 is now entrenched in the national vocabulary. His biographer, Keith Scott, commented that \"Overwhelmingly, Evans's period as deputy leader and shadow treasurer \u2013 from March 1996 to October 1998 \u2013 was his least successful in federal parliament\". Labor's defeat at the 1998 election led to Evans's resignation from the opposition front bench, and in September 1999 he resigned from Parliament causing a by-election, which was later won by Labor candidate Anthony Byrne.\nThroughout his time as a member of both houses of Parliament, Evans served in three of the four leadership positions, deputy Senate leader, Senate leader and deputy leader in the House of Representatives.\nInternational activity after politics.\nInternational Crisis Group.\nIn 1994, while Foreign Minister of Australia, Evans committed his government to donate $500,000 as initial funding for Brussels-based conflict prevention and resolution organisation, the International Crisis Group (ICG).\nFrom 2000 to 2009 Evans was president and CEO of the ICG, which during his tenure grew in staff from 25 to over 130, in budget from $US2 million to over $15 million, and in operating area from a handful of countries in the Balkans and Central Africa to over 60 across four continents, and published 784 worldwide-distributed reports.\nThe ICG made important contributions during this period in early-warning bellringing in cases like Darfur and Ethiopia-Eritrea, supporting conflict mediation in situations like Southern Sudan, Kosovo and Aceh, making path-breaking recommendations on Israel-Palestine, Iran and Burma/Myanmar, analysing the different strands of Islamism, and generally providing timely and detailed field-based analysis and recommendations to policymakers on hundreds of separate conflict-related issues.\nAlthough subject to occasional attack for the positions it has taken, the ICG was firmly established by the time of Evans's departure, and has remained, the preeminent international NGO working on the prevention and resolution of deadly conflict, praised by leaders across the spectrum from Condoleezza Rice to Hillary Clinton, and regularly being identified as one of the world's most influential think tanks.\nThe responsibility to protect.\nIn 2000\u20132001 Evans co-chaired, with Mohamed Sahnoun, the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty (ICISS), appointed by the government of Canada to address the issue of genocide and other mass atrocity crimes, which published its report, \"The Responsibility to Protect\", in December 2001.\nThe co-chairs then wrote an article on this matter: a state's sovereignty is also under question in times of mass murder, in terms of legitimacy. Sovereignty is dependent upon the state's responsibility to its people; if not fulfilled, then the contract between the government and its citizen is void, thus the sovereignty is not legitimate. In that crucible lies the genesis of the Responsibility to protect (R2P) doctrine.\nThe core idea of the R2P doctrine, as endorsed by the United Nations General Assembly at the 2005 World Summit, is that every state has the responsibility to protect its population from genocide and other mass atrocity crimes; the international community has a responsibility to assist the state if it is unable to protect its population on its own; and that if the state fails to protect its citizens from mass atrocities and peaceful measures have failed, the international community has the responsibility to intervene with appropriate measures, with coercive military intervention, approved by the UN Security Council, available as a last resort. The concept was expressly designed to supersede the idea of \"humanitarian intervention\", which had failed to generate any international consensus about how to respond to the 1990s catastrophes of Rwanda, Bosnia and Kosovo.\nEvans has been widely acknowledged as playing a crucial role in initiating, and advocating the international acceptance of, the concept, first as co-chair of the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty which introduced the expression in its 2001 report of that name, and subsequently as a member of the UN Secretary-General's High Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, Co-Chair of the Advisory Board of the Global Centre on the Responsibility to Protect, a member of the Editorial Board of the journal Global Responsibility to Protect and as the author of the Brookings Institution-published \"The Responsibility to Protect: Ending Mass Atrocity Crimes Once and For All\" and many other published works. He has made innumerable speeches and presentations on the issue, including in July 2009 participating at the UNGA in an interactive dialogue with Noam Chomsky.\nOther international panels and commissions.\nHe was a member of the UN Secretary General's High Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, whose report \"A More Secure World: Our Shared Responsibility\", addressing mass atrocity crimes and many other UN reform issues, was published in December 2004.\nEvans also served on the UN Secretary-General's Advisory Committee on Genocide Prevention.\nEvans had previously served as a member of the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict (1994\u201397), co-chaired by Cyrus Vance and David Hamburg. He was also a member of the International Task Force on Global Public Goods, sponsored by Sweden and France and chaired by Ernesto Zedillo, which reported in September 2006.\nHe is a member of the Crimes Against Humanity Initiative Advisory Council, a project of the Whitney R. Harris World Law Institute at Washington University School of Law in St. Louis to establish the world's first treaty on the prevention and punishment of crimes against humanity.\nEvans drew on this personal experience in his chapter on \"Commission Diplomacy\" in The Oxford Handbook of Modern Diplomacy.\nNuclear issues.\nOn nuclear issues, he was a member of the Commission on Weapons of Mass Destruction sponsored by Sweden and chaired by Hans Blix which reported in June 2006; and the Commission of Eminent Persons on The Role of the IAEA to 2020 and Beyond, chaired by Ernesto Zedillo, whose report \"Reinforcing the Global Nuclear Order for Peace and Prosperity\" was launched in June 2008. From 2008 to 2010 he co-chaired (with former Japanese Foreign Minister Yoriko Kawaguchi) the Australia and Japan sponsored International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament: its report \"Eliminating Nuclear Threats: A Practical Agenda for Global Policymakers\" was published in December 2009.\nEvans was the founding Convenor of the Asia-Pacific Leadership Network on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament in 2011, and Chair of the International Advisory Board of the ANU Centre for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament 2011-15.\nOther organisations.\nHis other recorded affiliatins with internationally focused organisations include:\nAcademic career and published writing.\nBefore entering Australian politics Evans was a lecturer, then senior lecturer, in law at the University of Melbourne, teaching constitutional and civil liberties law, crime and torts, from 1971 to 1976. In 2009, after his retirement from politics and his subsequent career as head of the International Crisis Group, he returned to academic life as an honorary professorial fellow (later professorial fellow) in the School of Social and Political Sciences at the University of Melbourne, teaching a graduate course on international policymaking in practice in 2011 and 2012.\nHe was elected as chancellor of the Australian National University (ANU) from 1 January 2010, replacing Kim Beazley following Beazley's appointment as Australian Ambassador to the United States. Evans was installed by Governor-General Quentin Bryce at a ceremony in Canberra on 18 February 2010, and served until 1 January 2020. \nHe is also elected an Honorary Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford in 2024; and since 2020 has been Distinguished Honorary Professor at ANU; he is also a Distinguished Fellow of the Australia India Institute at the University of Melbourne. Evans has maintained strong academic and scholarly connections throughout his career, lecturing at many universities around the world, including Oxford, Cambridge (where he delivered the 2013 Humanitas Lectures on Statecraft and Diplomacy), Princeton, Yale, Stanford, Indiana and the Central European University in Budapest.\nEvans has written or edited 14 books, most recently Good International Citizenship: The Case for Decency (Monash Publishing, 2022). His other major works include Incorrigible Optimist: A Political Memoir (Melbourne University Press, 2017), Inside the Hawke Keating Government: A Cabinet Diary (Melbourne University Press, 2014), \"The Responsibility to Protect: Ending Mass Atrocity Crimes Once and for All\" (Brookings Institution Press, September 2008, paperback edition 2009), which was awarded an Honorable Mention in the US Council on Foreign Relations Arthur Ross Book Award 2009 as one of the best three books on international relations published in the previous year, as well as \"Australia's Foreign Relations\" (with Bruce Grant, Melbourne University Press 1991, 2nd ed 1995), \"Cooperating for Peace: The Global Agenda for the 1990s\" (Allen &amp; Unwin, 1993), \"Australia's Constitution\" (with John McMillan and Haddon Storey, Allen &amp; Unwin, 1983) and the edited collection, \"Labor and the Constitution\", 1972\u20131975 (Heinemann, 1977). He co-edited the annual \"Labor Essays\" series from 1980 to 1982.\nEvans has also published nearly 150 chapters in books, monographs and articles in refereed and other journals \u2013 and many more newspaper and magazine articles \u2013 on foreign relations, politics, human rights and legal reform.\nContributions to international relations thinking.\nGood international citizenship.\nEvans introduced the idea of \"good international citizenship\" in his first major speeches as Australian foreign minister, and repeated and refined it in subsequent writing, most recently his monograph Good International Citizenship: The Case for Decency (Monash Publishing, 2022). The core notion was that \"being, and being seen to be, a good international citizen\" should be seen not as the \"foreign policy equivalent of boy-scout good deeds\", but as a distinct component of any country's national interest, \"quite distinct from the familiar duo of security and economic interests\":\nThe interest in question here is more than just the pleasure of basking in approbation. There are many direct reciprocal benefits to be gained in a world where no country can solve all its own problems: my assistance for you today in solving your drugs and terrorism problem might reasonably lead you to be more willing to help solve my environmental problem tomorrow. But the reputational benefit does also count. The perception of being a country willing to take principled stands for other than immediately self-interested reasons does no harm at all \u2013 as the Scandinavians in particular seem to have well understood \u2013 when it comes to advancing one's own commercial or political agendas.\nThe concept of \"good international citizenship\" has been specifically attributed to Evans in academic writing; its \"idealistic pragmatism\" has been seen as a way of bridging or transcending rival doctrines of realism and idealism in international relations theory; and the idea has been advanced as mapping a possible \"third way for British foreign policy\".\nNiche diplomacy.\n\"Niche diplomacy\" was identified by Evans as one of the characteristic methods of the larger and more familiar concept of middle power diplomacy which has traditionally characterized the approach to international relations of Canada (especially during the Pearson years) and Australia (especially under the Labor governments of Hawke, Keating and Rudd). He defined it as \"concentrating resources in specific areas best able to generate returns worth having, rather than trying to cover the field. By definition, middle powers are not powerful enough in most circumstances to impose their will, but they may be persuasive enough to have likeminded others see their point of view, and to act accordingly\". The concept is now familiar in academic discourse, and has been specifically attributed to Evans.\nCooperative security.\nEvans won the 1995 Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order (following Mikhail Gorbachev the year before) for his fall 1994 \"Foreign Policy\" article, \"Cooperative Security and Intra-State Conflict\", which was cited as presenting ideas that, following the end of the Cold War \"could quicken the process\u00a0... to help maintain a new world order\". He described \"cooperative security\" as being a single conceptual theme that effectively captured the essence of three more familiar concepts in international security discourse, viz. comprehensive security, common security and collective security. Its defining \u2013 and attractive \u2013 characteristics were that \"the term tends to connote consultation rather than confrontation, reassurance rather than deterrence, transparency rather than secrecy, prevention rather than correction, and interdependence rather than unilateralism\".\nHonours and awards.\nOn 11 June 2012, Evans was named a Companion of the Order of Australia for \"eminent service to international relations, particularly in the Asia Pacific Region as an adviser to governments on a range of global policy matters, to conflict prevention and resolution, and to arms control and disarmament.\" He had previously been made an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) in 2001 for \"service to the Australian Parliament, particularly through advancing Australia's foreign policy and trade interests, especially in Asia and through the United Nations\", and has been awarded Honorary Doctorates of Laws by the University of Melbourne in 2002, Carleton University in 2005, the University of Sydney in 2008 and Queen's University Ontario in 2010. In October 2005 he and the International Crisis Group were named European and Asian \"Heroes of 2005\". In July 2008, he was selected as an inaugural fellow of the Australian Institute of International Affairs in recognition of his \"outstanding contribution to Australian international relations\". In May 2010 he was awarded the 2010 Roosevelt Institute Four Freedoms Award for Freedom from Fear for his pioneering work on the responsibility to protect concept and his contributions to conflict prevention and resolution, arms control and disarmament. In October 2011, he was presented by the Nuclear Threat Initiative, led by Sam Nunn and Ted Turner, the Amartya Sen Award \"for intrepid and creative leadership in creating momentum toward a world free of nuclear weapons\". In December 2011 \"Foreign Policy\" magazine cited him, along with Francis Deng, as one of the Top 100 Global Thinkers for 2011 \"for making 'the responsibility to protect' more than academic\". In 2012 Evans was elected an honorary fellow of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia.\nIn 2016 he was awarded the Sir Edward 'Weary' Dunlop Asialink Medal \"for long-term commitment to enhancing the quality of life in the region and improving Australia-Asia relations\". In March 2017 he received the Canadian Simons Foundation Award for Distinguished Global Leadership in the Service of Peace and Disarmament. In May 2023 he was given the ROK Jeju 4.3 Peace Award for his significant contribution over three decades to promoting peace, reconciliation and human rights as foreign minister, NGO head, international commission member, writer and advocate.\nEarlier in his career he was designated Australian Humanist of the Year in 1990 by the Council of Australian Humanist Societies, won the ANZAC Peace Prize in 1994 for his \"leadership role in the Cambodian Peace Process\", was awarded in 1995 the prestigious University of Louisville $150 000 Grawemeyer Prize for Ideas Improving World Order for his 1994 \"Foreign Policy\" article \"Cooperative Security and Intrastate Conflict\", and in 1999 received the Chilean Order of Merit (Grand Officer) for his work in initiating APEC.\nPersonal life.\nEvans has been married since 1969 to Professor Merran Evans, of Monash University, with whom he has two adult children. They have four grandchildren.\nIn 2002, Evans admitted to having an extramarital relationship with Cheryl Kernot.\nHe has been a lifelong supporter, and was during his time in Australian government a special patron, of the Hawthorn Football Club. His other stated leisure interests are reading and writing, travel, architecture, opera and golf."}
{"id": "761548", "revid": "31530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761548", "title": "Test Card D", "text": ""}
{"id": "761549", "revid": "79805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761549", "title": "Turkmenian language", "text": ""}
{"id": "761551", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761551", "title": "Karen Rolton", "text": "Karen Louise Rolton (born 21 November 1974) is an Australian former cricketer and captain of the national women's team. A left-handed batter, she has scored the most runs for her country in women's Test cricket.\nInternational cricket.\nAfter making her international debut in 1995, Rolton went on to become a member of two successful world championship campaigns. In the final of the 2005 Women's Cricket World Cup, she scored 107 not out and was adjudged Player of the Match. Her numerous individual honours include being named ICC Women's Cricketer of the Year in 2006 and winning the Belinda Clark Award four times. New Zealand coach Steve Jenkin once remarked that the best tactic against her was to avoid dismissing the Australian team's openers so she could not bat.\nIn 2006, Rolton became the captain of the national team, taking over from Belinda Clark. She led Australia in the 2009 Women's Cricket World Cup on home soil, although the team performed below expectations and finished in fourth place.\nRecords and statistics.\nAcross 14 Test matches, Rolton scored 1,002 runs at an average of 55.66 which included two centuries and five half-centuries. She made her top score of 209 not out against England at Headingley in 2001, a world record at the time. She also scored 4,814 runs at 48.14 in Women's One Day Internationals. Rolton became the first player to score a century in the knockout stage of a Women's Cricket World Cup and set a record for the highest individual score on debut in Women's Twenty20 Internationals with 96 not out. In addition to her batting prowess, she enjoyed success as a left-arm medium-pace bowler, taking 102 international wickets across all three formats.\nRetirement and post-career.\nIn January 2010, Rolton announced her retirement from international cricket after a 14-year career. She continued to play domestic cricket for South Australia until the end of the 2010\u201311 Women's National Cricket League season.\nIn 2016, Rolton was inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame. In January 2018, she was inducted into the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame. A few months later, the South Australian Cricket Association unveiled a new community sporting facility in Adelaide, announcing the name of the main ground as Karen Rolton Oval.\nRolton currently lives in Victoria and remains involved with cricket through her coaching roles at the Melbourne Renegades and also at local level."}
{"id": "761553", "revid": "34212885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761553", "title": "Alfredo Ovando Cand\u00eda", "text": ""}
{"id": "761554", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761554", "title": "Online dispute resolution", "text": "Online dispute resolution (ODR) is a form of dispute resolution which uses technology to facilitate the resolution of disputes between parties. It primarily involves negotiation, mediation or arbitration, or a combination of all three. In this respect it is often seen as being the online equivalent of alternative dispute resolution (ADR). However, ODR can also augment these traditional means of resolving disputes by applying innovative techniques and online technologies to the process.\nODR is a wide field, which may be applied to a range of disputes; from interpersonal disputes including consumer to consumer disputes (C2C) or marital separation; to court disputes and interstate conflicts. It is believed that efficient mechanisms to resolve online disputes will impact in the development of e-commerce. While the application of ODR is not limited to disputes arising out of business to consumer (B2C) online transactions, it seems to be particularly apt for these disputes, since it is logical to use the same medium (the internet) for the resolution of e-commerce disputes when parties are frequently located far from one another. Designing an appropriate ODR system requires attention to the interests of both consumers and companies as well as a deep understanding of the requirements of procedural justice.\nDefinition.\nDispute resolution techniques range from methods where parties have full control of the procedure, to methods where a third party is in control of both the process and the outcome. These primary methods of resolving disputes may be complemented with Information and Communication Technology (ICT). When the process is conducted mainly online it is referred to as ODR, i.e. to carry out most of the dispute resolution procedure online, including the initial filing, the neutral appointment, evidentiary processes, oral hearings if needed, online discussions, and even the rendering of binding settlements. Thus, ODR is a different medium to resolve disputes, from beginning to end, respecting due process principles.\nODR was born from the synergy between ADR and ICT, as a method for resolving disputes that were arising online, and for which traditional means of dispute resolution were inefficient or unavailable. The introduction of ICT in dispute resolution is currently growing to the extent that the difference between off-line dispute resolution and ODR is blurry. It has been observed that it is only possible to distinguish between proceedings that rely heavily on online technology and proceedings that do not. Some commentators have defined ODR exclusively as the use of ADR assisted principally with ICT tools. Although part of the doctrine incorporates a broader approach including online litigation and other sui generis forms of dispute resolution when they are assisted largely by ICT tools designed ad hoc. The latter definition seems more appropriate since it incorporates all methods used to resolve disputes that are conducted mainly through the use of ICT. Moreover, this concept is more consistent with the fact that ODR was born from the distinction with off-line dispute resolution processes.\nIn ODR, the information management is not only carried out by physical persons but also by computers and software. The assistance of ICT has been named by Katsh and Rifkin as the 'fourth party' because ODR is seen as an independent input to the management of the dispute. In addition to the two (or more) disputants and the third neutral party, the labelling of technology as the fourth party is a clear metaphor which stresses how technology can be as powerful as to change the traditional three side model. The fourth party embodies a range of capabilities in the same manner that the third party does. While the fourth party may at times take the place of the third party, i.e. automated negotiation, it will frequently be used by the third party as a tool for assisting the process.\nThe fourth party may do many things such as organize information, send automatic responses, shape writing communications in a more polite and constructive manner e.g. blocking foul language. In addition, it can monitor performance, schedule meetings, clarify interests and priorities, and so on. The assistance of the fourth party will increase the more technology advances, thus reducing the role of the third neutral party. It has been predicted that virtual \"fourth party\" avatars will be created to judge disputes and could become more skilled and intelligent over time. Katsh and Wing argue that ICT advance is occurring exponentially since ICT advance speeds up over the time. As a result, ODR processes are increasing in efficiency providing their disputants with greater advantages in terms of time saving and cost reductions.\nAlternative definitions.\nIn practice it is difficult to provide a self-contained definition of ODR, and given the pace of change it may not even be possible to do so. The use of technology usually involves the use of Internet-based communications technology at some stage, but ODR does not necessarily involve purely online processes \u2013 further, many could be replicated offline using pen and paper, or could be achieved using computers without Internet connections.\nThe range of terms and acronyms used to describe the field augments the confusion often felt by those unfamiliar with the new field of ODR. These terms include:\nODR has emerged as the most used term in recent years.\nIt is uncertain whether these processes form a new \"discipline\" of ADR or a \"tool\" to aid existing methods of dispute resolution. The most appropriate view would be to view ODR as an interdisciplinary field of dispute resolution.\nMethods.\nConsensual.\nAutomated negotiation.\nAutomated negotiation relates to those methods in which the technology takes over (aspects of) a negotiation. Most of the ODR services in this area are so-called 'blind-bidding' services. This is a negotiation process designed to determine economic settlements for claims in which liability is not challenged. The blind bidding service may be thought of as a type of auction mechanism where some or all information about the players' bids is hidden. \nA resolution is declared by the system at the end of a negotiating session if all parties have accepted one or more packages (of one or more proposed decision values) at the end of that session. Which of those packages becomes the agreement may be determined by an algorithm that rewards the party that moves soonest into the Zone of Agreement. This algorithm is thought to encourage concessions and quickly indicate that they are willing to accept a fair outcome. This is in contrast to the chilling effect that occurs with the more common split-the-difference algorithm.\nAutomated negotiation has proven to be particularly successful with insurance compensations and commercial activities. It is also a valuable tool for lawyers because they too can use it without revealing what they're willing to accept (unless an agreement is reached) and more importantly, without waiving their right to access the court, in the case that the negotiation is unsuccessful.\nThus, ODR is useful for resolving brick and mortar disputes that arise in businesses, insurance companies and municipalities, who are finding that ODR saves them money and time when dealing with B2C disputes.\nAssisted negotiation.\nIn assisted negotiation the technology assists the negotiation process between the parties. The technology has a similar role as the mediator in a mediation. The role of the technology may be to provide a certain process and/or to provide the parties with specific (evaluative) advice.\nMediators use information management skills encouraging parties to reach an amicable agreement by enabling them to communicate more effectively through the rephrasing of their arguments. Conciliation is similar to mediation, but the conciliator can propose solutions for the parties to consider before an agreement is reached. Also, assisted negotiation procedures are designed to improve parties' communications through the assistance of a third party or software. In fact, it has been argued that assisted negotiation, conciliation, and even facilitation, are just different words for mediation. The major advantages of these processes, when used online, are their informality, simplicity and user friendliness.\nThe leading ODR provider for consumer mediation was until recently SquareTrade. It was contracted by a number of market places, the largest of which was eBay. However, due to changes in the eBay feedback system in May 2008, SquareTrade decided to stop resolving eBay feedback disputes from June 2008. SquareTrade continues providing services to eBay users, such as warranty services and the trustmark program. It appears that in the last year these services have been taken over by eBay and PayPal dispute resolution services, but results on these services are still scarce.\nSquareTrade did not handle disputes between users and eBay, only between sellers and buyers on eBay. SquareTrade offered two levels of dispute resolution: assisted negotiation and mediation. SquareTrade was only used after eBay's own consumer satisfaction process. In the last few years, SquareTrade has resolved millions of disputes across 120 countries in 5 different languages.\nThe advantage of dealing with large number of disputes is that the same issues arise many times, thus it is possible to divide the disputes into different sections. The SquareTrade process started when a buyer or a seller filed a complaint. To do so, the claimant was asked to fill out a web-based standard claim form that identified the type of dispute and presented a list of common solutions, from which the claimant selected the ones that he agreed to. The other party was contacted by email where he was informed about the SquareTrade process, and asked whether he wished to participate. The parties were often keen on participating because this was the only manner by which the buyer could get redress and the seller positive feedback. The other party filed the response, selecting the resolutions. If both parties agreed on the same resolution, the dispute was resolved. When an agreement could not be reached, parties were put into a negotiation environment. A web interface was used to shape communications into a constructive and polite negotiation. This was achieved with software tools that limited the free text space, encouraged the proposition of agreements, set deadlines and even shaped the tone of exchanges.\nThis software was the key element of the process because it took over some of the expertise of the third party. This process could be defined as 'mediated negotiation'. According to Rabinovich-Einy, SquareTrade technology,\n\"intervenes in the negotiations between the parties and, by allowing parties to formulate and reformulate the problem and the solution, performs some of what would be associated with a mediator's role, moving the parties from a problem mode to a solution stance.\"\nMost disputes (over 80 percent) were resolved during the first two stages, which was an impressive success rate given that in the majority of cases, the parties had already been involved in some type of failed direct negotiation before engaging with SquareTrade. In the rest of the cases a mediator could be requested for a nominal fee, acting as an expert evaluator or conciliator that made settlement proposals to the parties. This second stage involved the payment of a US$29.95 fee. According to SquareTrade, \"[a] sophisticated case management technology enables mediators to handle lower to medium-value consumer disputes in an efficient cost effective manner.\" The appointed mediator proposed solutions, if required by the parties to do so. Agreements were always kept confidential by SquareTrade, and became binding as contracts.\nSquareTrade has proven that processes such as online negotiation and online mediation can be efficient tools to resolve e-commerce disputes. One of the key issues for the success of SquareTrade was the simplicity and convenience of this service. In addition, SquareTrade services to eBay were concentrated on a reduced number of issues, such as delays, bad descriptions and negative feedback. This made possible the development of an efficient automatic process that enhanced online negotiation. The success of consensual and automated processes depends on the nature of the dispute, the accuracy of information provided, and the capability of the software or the third neutral party in assessing and evaluating the facts and evidence. SquareTrade was particularly effective because it introduced incentives that encourage parties' participation; i.e. both parties wished to resolve their dispute: sellers want to obtain positive feedback and buyers want redress. In general terms, widening the scope of clients' claims to the global market invites extra variables to play: cultural differences, such as high and low culture perceptions and the cross-cultural variations of what constitutes the customer satisfaction experience.\nExpedient Non-Adjudicative Online Resolution.\nAnother form of alternative dispute resolution prioritizes expedience and dispenses with adjudication all together, in recognition of the litigants' desire to simply dispose of the matter as quickly as possible. By removing any hint of adjudication, services (e.g., One Day Decisions) \"fast track\" a version similar to blind bidding which is restricted privately to the two parties and an algorithm determines a fair value to be accepted by each party. Unlike other services, once accepted by both parties, the settlement amount is applied to the issuance of a Certificate of Final Resolution which both parties accept as irrevocable proof of resolution and final settlement. By avoiding adjudication, expedient non-adjudicative online resolution saves litigants time in court, time away from work and other fees and expenses, while protecting each from ancillary damage: The winning party generally collects more of his disputed amount and the losing party suffers no credit damage from having a judgment entered against him. Expedient Non-Adjudicative Online Resolution is generally utilized in cases that might otherwise be heard in small claims or limited civil matters.\nCrowdjustice.\nAs an alternative to private, professional settlement, the concept of crowdjustice has recently taken shape as a means to leverage social norms and the wisdom of crowds to determine the outcome of a dispute. \nAdjudicative.\nOnline arbitration.\nArbitration is a process where a neutral third party (arbitrator) delivers a decision which is final, and binding on both parties. It can be defined as a quasi-judicial procedure because the award replaces a judicial decision. Arbitrators can be current or former trial judges, but that is not a requirement. However, in an arbitration procedure parties usually can choose the arbitrator and the basis on which the arbitrator makes the decision. Furthermore, it is less formal than litigation, though more than any other consensual process. It is often used to resolve businesses' disputes because this procedure is noted for being private and faster than litigation. Once the procedure is initiated parties cannot abandon it, unless they both agree to discontinuing it (e.g. when they reached a settlement - although usually the settlement will be communicated to the arbitral tribunal and an award rendered on this basis). Another feature of arbitration is that the award is enforceable almost everywhere due to the wide adoption of the 1958 New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards. Moreover, arbitral awards prove frequently easier to enforce than court decisions from overseas.\nThe majority of legal studies on online arbitration agree that, neither law, nor arbitral principles, prevent arbitration from taking place online. However, there may be several aspects in online arbitration that need to be regulated. Although online arbitration seems admissible under the New York Convention and the E-Commerce Directive, this is arguably an assumption by most commentators, rather than a legal statement. Since arbitration is based on a contractual agreement between the parties, an online process without a regulatory framework may generate a significant number of challenges from consumers and other weaker parties if due process cannot be assured. Currently, most arbitration providers allow parties to carry out online only part of the arbitration process, e.g. parties may download claim forms, the submission of documents through standard email or secure web interface, the use of telephone hearings, etc. A key element of arbitration is the right for a party to question the witnesses of the other parties and that can now be done at low cost with an online audio and video hearing process using newer technologies such as Skype Premium or Google Hangouts. Cross examination of remote witnesses regulated by the arbitrator can ensure the fairness and maintain a judicial quality for the online arbitration process.\nThe main challenge for online arbitration is that if judicial enforcement is required then it partly defeats the purpose of having an online process. Alternatively, some processes have developed self-enforcement mechanisms such as technical enforcements, black lists and trustmarks.\nThe Uniform Domain Names Dispute Resolution Policy (UDRP).\nTraditionally arbitration resolves disputes by delivering a decision that will be legally binding, i.e. enforceable by the courts in the same manner as a judgment. Non binding arbitration processes may also be effective when using ODR tools because they often encourage settlements by imparting a dose of reality and objectivity. In addition, self-enforcement measures may reinforce the efficacy of non binding processes. The most significant example is the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (UDRP) created by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). Some commentators have referred to the UDRP as an administrative process. In any case, the UDRP has developed a transparent global ODR process that allows trade mark owners to fight efficiently cybersquatting. The UDRP is used to resolve disputes between trade mark owners and those who have registered a domain name in bad faith for the purpose of reselling it for a profit, or taking advantage of the reputation of a trademark.\nTrademark owners accessing the UDRP must prove to the panel three circumstances: \nHowever, the UDRP presents its own problems that show the challenges that an online adversarial system applied to mainstream e-commerce disputes would have. The main worry is that the evaluation of the panel decisions often shows a lack of unanimous consensus in the interpretation of the UDRP. This may be due to a number of reasons, such as the lack of an appellative review and panels composed by members from a multitude of jurisdictions and informed by different legal traditions.\nOn the other side, it is undeniable what ICANN with the UDRP has achieved in developing an effective ODR procedure based on contractual adherence that allows trade mark owners to transfer or cancel a domain that blatantly violates IP rights. The UDRP providers have dealt efficiently with over 30,000 domain name disputes. Their success derives from two aspects: First, the UDRP deals only with blatant disputes, which are abusive registrations made in bad faith in order to take advantage of the reputation of existing trademarks. Secondly, it has incorporated a self-enforcement mechanism, which transfers and cancels domain names without the need for judicial involvement. This is a positive accomplishment for the development of e-commerce because it favours consumers' confidence in the Internet by reducing the number of fraudulent registered domain names.\nChargebacks.\nOne of the main focuses of e-commerce up until recently has been related to secure payments. Chargebacks is a remedy used to reverse transactions made with credit or debit cards when a fraudulent use has occurred, or when there is a violation of the contract terms. This method is very popular among online consumers since this is the main mechanism to transfer money online. In addition, consumers are not required to give evidence to cancel a payment. The vendor has the burden of proving that the merchandise or service was given according to the contract terms. Once this is proved the bank makes effective the payment to the vendor.\nChargebacks are largely used around the world by banks and the main credit card suppliers i.e. Visa, MasterCard and American Express. Yet, the coverage of debit and credit cards varies considerably amongst different countries. Commonly, debit cardholders have fewer protections than credit card holders, but it also varies depending on the jurisdiction.\nIt is then not surprising why credit cards are the major source of payments for consumers in e-commerce. They provide a remedy that reverses all transactions when a fraudulent use has occurred, or when there is a violation of the contract terms. However this method has limitations; it offers one single remedy (the return of the payment), and not all disputes imply a breach of contract or fraud.\nSimilarly, online payment providers, like PayPal.com, retain temporarily the money paid by a buyer when the latter makes a complaint within 45 days after the payment was made. PayPal.com holds the money until the dispute is settled, but only in those cases where the merchandise did not arrive, or the description of the product was significantly different from the product itself. In these circumstances PayPal.com acts akin to an online arbitrator. However, in those circumstances where the seller takes away the money from his account before the buyer makes the claim, PayPal.com will not be responsible for the buyer's loss. Despite this, PayPal is in a very strong position since in most cases it is able to freeze the amount of money and resolve the dispute providing an instant and effective enforcement.\nOverall, chargebacks intends to balance the inequality of power between consumers and businesses. It is regarded as a very efficient tool for consumers because the speed, accessibility and lack of charge for their clients, who would just have to notify their banks or card issuers to cancel a transaction. Thus, Edwards and Wilson suggested that it would be advisable to focus on developing chargebacks and other soft ODR methods because they are very effective amongst mainstream consumers. By contrast, the existing processes are considered largely inefficient and not transparent among businesses because puts businesses in bad light since the onus of the proof rests on them.\nIn the Courts.\nMany courts throughout the world are now incorporating ODR into their judicial procedures. The idea is to add a \"virtual door\" to the multi-door courthouse and promote access to justice.\nIn the European Union.\nEuropean Small Claims Procedure.\nSmall claims procedures provide a middle ground between formal litigation and ADR, where disputes involving small value claims can be resolved in courts faster, cheaply, and less formally. The main limitation of small claims procedures is that they are restricted to particular jurisdictions. In order to overcome this limitation the European Commission has adopted a regulation for a European Small Claims Procedure (ESCP) in 2007. Implementation of the ESCP was expected in all EU Member States by January 2009. The ESCP is predominantly a written procedure that deals with claims under \u20ac2,000 arising in cross-border disputes. Its main advantage is that it provides for the enforcement of decisions in any of the member states without the need to go through the formal mutual recognition of judgements (exequatur).\nGreat expectations are put on the ESCP, which in order to deliver a cost-effective process will have to rely on ICT. This will be a significant challenge, because unlike the UDRP, which is becoming a fully online process for dealing with specific complaints, the ESCP will deal with a variety of civil and commercial disputes. The objective of the ESCP was the creation of a cost efficient procedure applicable to small value claims in cross-border disputes. This objective could only be achieved by using a written procedure, assisted by electronic forms such as emails and videoconferencing as foreseen by the ESCP.\nThe Regulation allows the use of new technologies in transferring information and evidence between the courts of the different member states. But, it will be the EC Member States who will decide, through their own regulations, which specific means of communication are acceptable in their courts. Given that the ESCP is a regulation and not a directive, it is arguable whether it has left too many aspects to the discretion of member states, which could call into question the legal certainty expected from a European regulation. Nevertheless, it can be expected that, in due time, electronic communications will reach every possible and reasonable aspect of the judicial procedure to assist in the resolution of online as well as off-line B2C disputes.\nWith the implementation of the ESCP an institutionalized ODR may emerge in Europe in 2009. Many disputes will be resolved by judges communicating with parties through the Internet. It is expected that the ESCP will contribute to mitigate the legitimacy problem which also hampers the emergence of ODR. Perhaps, within the EU, where we have concern for the fairness of private procedures (i.e. restrictions in consumer arbitration) the ESCP may contribute to increase trust in ODR processes.\nODR Platform.\nThe European Commission established an Online Dispute Resolution Platform (ODR Platform) on 15 February 2016. This platform or portal is available for use by consumers located in the European Union, or in Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein, to assist in settling disputes with traders out of court. The platform is accessible at https://ec.europa.eu/consumers/odr/main/index.cfm. In addition, the Platform may be used by traders to resolve a dispute with a consumer who resides in Belgium, Germany, Luxemburg or Poland.\nIn China.\nChina's 2018 E-Commerce Law establishes the principle that \"the state regulates the platforms, and the platforms regulate online businesses\". Among other provisions, the law states in Articles 58-63 that platforms should establish online dispute resolution systems among other online institutions.\nIn India.\nOnline dispute resolution (ODR) in India is in its infancy stage and it is gaining prominence day by day. With the enactment of \"Information Technology Act, 2000\" in India, e-commerce and e-governance have been given a formal and legal recognition in India. Even the traditional arbitration law of India has been reformulated and now India has \"Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996\" in place that is satisfying the harmonised standards of UNCITRAL Model. The amendment made in the\"Code of Civil Procedure, 1908\" by introducing section 89 was made to provide methods of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) in India.\nWith a rapid growth of e-commerce in India, the number of disputes related to online transactions is on the rise. The existing dispute redressal mechanisms are falling short of the business growth and customer expectations. Conventional redressal systems require presence of the parties, and are not in synch with modern online platforms. The Department of Consumer Affairs, Government of India has taken note of this and has planned to roll out an Online Consumer Dispute Resolution platform that follows the best practices emerging in the global eCommerce arena. "}
{"id": "761555", "revid": "52043786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761555", "title": "Charles L. Mee", "text": "Charles Louis Mee Jr. (born September 15, 1938) is an American playwright, historian and author known for his collage-like style of playwriting, which makes use of radical reconstructions of found texts. He is also a Special Lecturer of theater at Columbia University.\nEarly life and career.\nCharles L. Mee was born in Evanston, Illinois, the son of Charles Louis Mee Sr. and his wife Sarah Elizabeth (Lowe) Mee. He grew up in Barrington, Illinois, after the family moved there from Evanston. Mee contracted polio at the age of fourteen. His memoir \"A Nearly Normal Life\" (1999) tells how that event informed the rest of his life.\nAfter graduating from Harvard University in 1960, Mee moved to Greenwich Village and became a part of the Off-Off-Broadway scene. Between 1962 and 1964, his plays were presented at venues that included La MaMa E.T.C., Caffe Cino, Theatre Genesis, and the Ontological-Hysteric Theater.\nIn 1961 Mee began work at American Heritage publishing company and eventually became the editor of the hardback bi-monthly \"Horizon: A Magazine of the Arts\". He was also the Advising Editor and then Contributing Editor of \"Tulane Drama Review\" \u2013 now called \"TDR\" and published from New York University \u2013 until 1964 and its Associate Editor from 1964 to 1965.\nLiterary career.\nTo support himself and his family, Mee turned from writing plays to writing books in 1965. \"Lorenzo De'Medici and the Renaissance\", the first of his many nonfiction books, was published in 1969 by HarperCollins Juvenile Books. At the same time, he increasingly became caught up in anti-Vietnam War politics, campaigning for anti-war congressional candidates and writing anti-war polemics. He did not return to writing for the theater for 20 years.\nIn the 1970s, he became the co-founder and chairman of The National Committee on the Presidency, a grassroots organization which called for the impeachment of Richard Nixon. His political activism led to his writing of political histories for the general public.\nHis \"Meeting at Potsdam\" (1975), about the 1945 Potsdam Conference, was chosen as a main selection of the Literary Guild, and was adapted for both film and television by David Susskind. He wrote other books on summit diplomacy, international power sharing, and American history, including \"The End of Order: Versailles 1919\" (1980); \"The Marshall Plan: The Launching of Pax Americana\" (1987), and \"The Genius of the People\" (1987), about the 1787 Constitutional Convention. \"Playing God: Seven Fateful Moments When Great Men Met to Change the World\" (1993) was Mee's final published work of history.\n\"A Visit to Haldeman and Other States of Mind\" (1976) was described as \"part autobiographical meditation, part elegiac crank letter to the American Republic, part confession and part essay on democratic politics\" in a review by \"Time\". Greil Marcus, in 2002, said that it was one of the best books he had read about American patriotism. In 2017, Dwight Garner in his \"New York Times\" \"American Beauties\" column, about \"undersung American books of the past 75 years,\" described the work as \"[o]ne of the finest and least-known books about Richard M. Nixon's presidency and the shrinking American soul\".\nPlaywriting career.\nMee returned to playwriting in 1985. His libretto for choreographer Martha Clarke's \"Vienna: Lusthaus\" was his first produced script since his Off-Off Broadway days. In 2002 Mee revised about a third of his \"Vienna: Lusthaus\" script. It was reprised as \"Vienna: Lusthaus (Revisited)\". Clarke and Mee collaborated again in \"Belle \u00c9poque\" (2004). For years he continued working his day job as the editor-in-chief at consumer health publisher Rebus, Inc. and writing books.\nMee's daughter, Erin B. Mee, also became involved in theater. In 1988 she was invited to direct a production at HOME for Contemporary Theatre and Art in SoHo. She chose to premiere her father's play, \"The Imperialists at the Club Cave Canem\" (1988), which received positive reviews from \"The Village Voice\" and \"The New York Times\". The play was picked up by Joseph Papp for a run at The Public Theater. In 2000 Erin B. Mee staged another production of \"The Imperialists at the Club Cave Canem\" at The Market Theatre in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which she updated with the dramaturg for this production.\n\"Another Person is a Foreign Country\" (1991) was the first of Mee's many collaborations with the director Anne Bogart. The En Garde Arts site-specific performance took place in the courtyard of the decrepit Towers Nursing Home in New York City.\nIn 1992 his \"Orestes\" was directed by Robert Woodruff at the University of California, San Diego and by Anne Bogart at the Saratoga International Theater Institute (SITI). In the summer of 1992, Tina Landau directed an En Garde Arts production as \"Orestes 2.0\" on an abandoned pier on the Hudson River in Manhattan.\nThis play was the first of ten plays for which Mee used the Greek texts as a base and added new fragments of text; he then would \"throw the scaffolding away and call whatever remained the script.\" In 1996, his \"The Constitutional Convention: A Sequel,\" was produced by Clubbed Thumb.\nIn 2001 Erin B. Mee staged the premiere of her father's \"First Love\" at New York Theatre Workshop. He had written it specifically for her to direct, and it starred Ruth Maleczech and Fred Neumann of Mabou Mines. Erin Mee staged a second production in 2002 at the Magic Theatre in San Francisco with Joan Mankin and Robert Parnell.\nIn other plays, Mee explores twentieth-century American history and culture through the points-of-view of contemporary visual artists in: \"bobrauschenbergamerica\" (Robert Rauschenberg), \"Hotel Cassiopeia\" (Joseph Cornell), \"soot and spit (the musical)\" (James Castle), and \"Under Construction\" (Jason Rhoades and Norman Rockwell).\nHis comedies and romances include \"Summertime\", \"First Love\", \"True Love\", \"Big Love\", \"Wintertime\", \"Fetes de la Nuit\", \"A Perfect Wedding\", and \"Fire Island\". As source material, Mee would use Greek tragedy, Shakespeare, Moli\u00e8re, Anton Chekhov, Ren\u00e9 Magritte paintings, Bollywood musicals, and his own writing.\nHe is the only resident playwright of the theatre ensemble SITI Company, for whom he wrote \"Orestes\", \"bobrauschenbergamerica\", \"Hotel Cassiopeia\", \"Under Construction\", and \"soot and spit (the musical)\". Mee was the Signature Theatre Playwright-in-Residence for the 2007\u20132008 season.\nIn 2008, Shakespeare and Renaissance scholar Stephen Greenblatt collaborated with Mee to write \"Cardenio\". It premiered at American Repertory Theater (A.R.T.) in 2008.\nIn 2014 Mee co-wrote This Is Not A Theatre Company's \"Pool Play\". Audiences sat at the edge of the pool with their feet in the water for an exploration of America's long, joyful, and complicated relationship with the swimming pool. The production included synchronized swimming, an existential boatman, musical numbers, and a snarky fish, along with stories about segregated pools, and a meditation on pollution.\nSarah Lucie of \"Show Business Weekly\" said:\nThe entirety of the play is well executed, featuring a strong ensemble that has absolutely no fear of diving into whatever quirky material is presented to them. Their playfulness is contagious, ultimately creating an uplifting theatrical experience that leaves the audience joyous and refreshed\u2014and maybe a little wet. Pool Play, while undeniably light-hearted, manages to communicate some profound and political themes to those who choose to pay attention.\n\"Theatre is Easy\" wrote:\nPool Play\u00a0... is definitely worth the trip\u00a0... The entire ensemble showed moments of skill, wit, and brevity far beyond their years. Erin B. Mee does a superb job directing this young group of artists to create a cohesive look at our fascination with the water, entertaining and engaging the audience along the way.\nIn fall 2015 Mee co-wrote \"Versailles 2015\", a site-specific play for a New York City apartment, conceived and directed by Erin B. Mee. \"New York Theatre Review\" noted that \"Versailles 2015 is over far too quickly. It is an hors d'oeuvre plate of scenes that collectively\u00a0... have a message about elitism and the vanity of apathy\u00a0... Brief and poignant, Versailles 2015 will linger in your mind long after you see it.\" Courtney Escoyne of \"Thoughts from a Ballet Nerd\" wrote: \"Versailles 2015 is a meditation upon privilege\u2026It blurred the lines between audience and performer, ignored entirely the idea of a fourth wall, and managed to fit in some wonderfully crafted dialogue.\" Finally, Stephen Kaplan of \"Theatre Is Easy\" said: \"Delightful and provocative\u00a0... Amidst the countless atrocities that confront us every day, at our core we are all struggling to find the naked honesty in our own lives\u00a0... Versailles 2015 allows us the time to contemplate this in its characters and in ourselves.\"\nMee's play \"The Glory of The World\" about Thomas Merton, a noted Trappist monk and activist, was directed by Les Waters at the Actors Theatre of Louisville in the spring of 2015. It transferred to the Brooklyn Academy of Music in February 2016, with support from philanthropist Roy Cockrum.\nMee teaches playwriting at the Columbia University School of the Arts.\nStyle and method of writing.\nOn Mee's website, \"the (re)making project\", he says \"There is no such thing as an original play.\" and that his plays are \"composed in the way that Max Ernst made his Fatagaga pieces toward the end of World War I: texts have often been taken from, or inspired by, other texts.\" An interview with Mee about his work by Erin B. Mee, along with a manifesto and other material, was published in TDR 46:3 (T175).\nUse of the Internet.\nMee began using the internet as a textual source for composing his pieces in the early 1990s. He first began making his own work freely available by posting three of his plays on Carnegie Mellon's humanities gopher/ftp/telnet English Server in the mid-1990s. By 1996, with the help of his friend Tom Damrauer, \"the (re)making project\", a web site with his full scripts was launched. It contained an invitation for people to \"do freely whatever they want with them.\" He is the first and only playwright to make such a large body of theatre work available on the internet.\nThis was not viewed by Mee as a challenge to the current copyright law or a vehicle to raise issues of intellectual property. It was done as a populist gesture towards his utopian vision of a free and democratic internet. In 1996 he said \"I'm attracted to the idea of things being owned in common.\" It also represented \"Mee's Golden Rule: of do unto my writing as I have done unto the writing of others.\"\nNational Public Radio called Mee the \"Public-Domain Playwright\" in 2000 and credited him with touching \"a raw cultural nerve\" by making his work freely available.\nWriter Jonathan Lethem credited Mee as one of the inspirations for his \"Promiscuous Project\" in which he made a selection of his stories available for filmmakers or dramatists to adapt at a dollar apiece.\nIn an explanation about \"the (re)making project\" on his current website, Mee says that his plays are protected by copyright if they are \"essentially or substantially performed\" as he has composed them. He continues, however, to invite others to freely pillage his texts to make their own work, without any attribution to him.\nPatronage.\nIn 1998, Mee's friend, former chairman of Morgan Stanley and philanthropist Richard B. Fisher and his wife, Jeanne Donovan Fisher, offered to provide Mee with enough money to support himself. The rare arrangement imposed no stipulations or conditions upon Mee or his writing nor did it specify how long the relationship would last. Although Richard B. Fisher died in 2004, Jeanne Donovan Fisher continues to support Mee and his work. The Fishers patronage has been hailed as one \"without parallel or precedent in American theatrical philanthropy.\"\nSometime in 2013, concurrent with the launch of a redesigned website, the language regarding patronage changed to the past tense: \"Charles Mee's work has been made possible by the support of Richard B. Fisher and Jeanne Donovan Fisher.\" It is now possible to directly support the project.\nAwards.\nAmong other awards, Charles Mee is the recipient of an Award of Merit Medal in drama from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, two Obie Awards, for \"Vienna: Lusthaus\" (1986) with Martha Clarke, and \"Big Love\" (2002), PEN/Laura Pels Theater Award for a playwright in mid-career, and the Fisher Award given by the Brooklyn Academy of Music."}
{"id": "761556", "revid": "25994772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761556", "title": "South American fox", "text": "The South American foxes (Lycalopex), commonly called raposa in Portuguese, or zorro in Spanish, are a genus inhabiting South America. Despite their name, they are not true foxes, but are a unique canid genus more closely related to wolves and jackals than to true foxes; some of them resemble foxes due to convergent evolution. The South American gray fox, \"Lycalopex griseus\", is the most common species, and is known for its large ears and a highly marketable, russet-fringed pelt.\nThe second-oldest known fossils belonging to the genus were discovered in Chile, and date from 2.0 to 2.5 million years ago, in the mid- to late Pliocene. The Vorohu\u00e9 Formation of Argentina has provided older fossils, dating to the Uquian to Ensenadan (Late Pliocene).\nNames.\nThe common English word \"zorro\" is a loan word from Spanish, with the word originally meaning \"fox\". Current usage lists \"Pseudalopex\" (literally: \"false fox\") as synonymous with \"Lycalopex\" (\"wolf fox\"), with the latter taking precedence. In 1895, Allen classified \"Pseudalopex\" as a subgenus of \"Canis\", establishing the combination \"Canis (Pseudalopex)\", a name still used in the fossil record.\nSpecies.\nSpecies currently included in this genus include:\nIn 1914, Oldfield Thomas established the genus \"Dusicyon\", in which he included these zorros. They were later reclassified to \"Lycalopex\" (via \"Pseudalopex\") by Langguth in 1975.\nPhylogeny.\nThe following phylogenetic tree shows the evolutionary relationships between the \"Lycalopex\" species, based on molecular analysis of mitochondrial DNA control region sequences.\nRelationship with humans.\nThe zorros are hunted in Argentina for their durable, soft pelts. They are also often labelled 'lamb-killers'.\nIn his diary of his well-known 1952 traveling with the young Che Guevara, Alberto Granado mentions talking with seasonal workers employed on vast sheep farms, who told him of a successful campaign by the ranch owners to exterminate the foxes who were preying on lambs. The ranchers offered a reward of one Argentinian peso for the body of a dead male fox and as much as five pesos for a female fox; to impoverished workers in the early 1950s, five pesos were a significant sum. Within a few years, foxes became virtually extinct in a large part of Argentina.\nThe \"Fuegian dog\" (), also known as the Yaghan dog, was a domesticated form of the culpeo (\"Lycalopex culpaeus\"), unlike other domesticated canids which were dogs and silver foxes. This means different canid species have been domesticated multiple times by humans independently."}
{"id": "761557", "revid": "40292988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761557", "title": "Alfredo Ovando", "text": "Alfredo Ovando Candia (6 April 1918 \u2013 24 January 1982) was a Bolivian military officer and political leader who served as the 48th president of Bolivia from 1965 to 1966 and 1969 to 1970. During his first term, he shared power with Ren\u00e9 Barrientos as co-president of a military junta.\nEarly years.\nOvando was born in Cobija from an upper-middle-class family of immigrants parents from Extremadura, Spain and Piedmont, Italy. He started his long military career in the early 1930s, when he served in the Chaco War against Paraguay. Originally rather apolitical, he was chosen (among others) to lead the reconstituted Armed Forces of Bolivia in the aftermath of the 1952 Revolution that installed in power the reformist Revolutionary Nationalist Movement party, better known as the MNR. Ovando lived through the relative deprivation, reduced budgets, and loss of prestige of the defeated Bolivian army during the early years of MNR rule. By the early 1960s, President V\u00edctor Paz Estenssoro came to rely more heavily on the military in the face of growing political divisions among the governing elites. Equally as important in this rebirth was the considerable pressure exerted by the United States to modernize and equip the troops for a decidedly more political role: that of fighting possible Cuba-styled Communist insurgencies.\nThe 1964 coup d'\u00e9tat and the co-presidency.\nWhen Paz Estenssoro amended the Constitution in 1964 in order to allow himself to run for re-election (a largely frowned-upon move in the largely personalistic world of Bolivian politics), General Ovando, along with the vice-president and former head of the Air Force Ren\u00e9 Barrientos, toppled Paz from power. They ruled together in a Junta (sometimes called \"The Co-Presidency) until January 1966, when Barrientos resigned in order to register himself as a candidate. At that point Ovando became sole President, leading the country to the elections from which the popular Barrientos emerged victorious. With the new president having taken the oath of office in August 1966, Ovando returned to his post as Commander of the Bolivian Air Forces.\nArmed forces commander and president-in-waiting, 1966-69.\nUncharismatic but tenacious, Ovando was biding his time, counting on the fact that he would be the logical choice to run for elections once Barrientos' term ended in 1970, perhaps with some electoral \"help\" from the outgoing administration. Soon, major differences emerged between Ovando and the president, however, especially in regard to the massacre of miners at Siglo XX in June 1967, and the so-called Arguedas Affair of 1968. In early 1967, a guerrilla force had been discovered to be operating in the rural Bolivian southwest under the leadership of the Argentine-Cuban revolutionary Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara. While the popular insurgency was eventually crushed by the US-trained Bolivian military troops under American CIA command, Guevara was captured and executed in October 1967. This event fostered a major spin-off scandal that surfaced in 1968. That year, Barrientos' trusted friend and Minister of Interior, Antonio Arguedas, disappeared with the captured diary of Che Guevara, which soon surfaced in Havana. From abroad, Arguedas confessed himself to have been all along a clandestine Marxist supporter, and denounced Barrientos and many of his aides as being on the CIA's payroll. This event embarrassed US military School of the Americas (SOA) graduate Barrientos as a US-controlled puppet, and prompted Ovando to distance himself from the president with an eye to the projected 1970 elections. (The US SOA notoriously trained many Latin American dictators and death squads in counterinsurgency tactics and torture and disappearance techniques). \nThe worries proved unnecessary, for Barrientos perished in a tragic helicopter crash on 27 April 1969. His vice-president, a little-known Christian-Democrat politician named Luis Adolfo Siles, was sworn as president soon thereafter, in accordance to the Constitution. Siles' poor relations with Ovando led Siles to support the candidacy of the popular Mayor of La Paz, Armando Escobar, as the true successor of the now-constantly eulogized Barrientos, threatening to spoil the carefully laid plans of Ovando. Furthermore, Ovando had been undergoing a political metamorphosis, and had come to conclude that he had to move to the Left in order to be acceptable as president in the ideologically super-charged atmosphere of the late 1960s. The changes he planned to institute could be difficult to enact in the presence of a potentially hostile Congress. For these reasons, Ovando decided not to wait for the elections (which no one could guarantee he could win, with the popular Escobar as candidate) and on 26 September 1969, he executed a coup d'\u00e9tat that overthrew Siles.\nThe 1969-70 Ovando dictatorship.\nOvando's short (13 month) dictatorship was difficult and marked by political violence. Upon taking office, he declared himself in favor of fundamental changes aimed at enhancing the deplorable living conditions of the vast majority of Bolivians. To this end, he nationalized the Bolivian operations of the U.S.-based Gulf Oil Corporation and called on known leftist intellectuals to become part of his cabinet. Ovando also announced his political adherence to the principles espoused by other so-called \"leftist military\" regimes then in vogue in Latin America, foremost of which were the regimes of Peru's Juan Velasco and Panama's Omar Torrijos.\nOvando's populist stance surprised many conservative members of the Bolivian military and failed to fully satisfy the increasingly more belligerent forces of the Left, especially the workers and students. Worse, the military (in whose name he served) had become polarized, with some sectors supporting the President and even calling for a further leftward turn (General Juan Jos\u00e9 Torres) and others criticizing Ovando and urging a more conservative, anti-Communist, and pro U.S. stance (General Rogelio Miranda). In June 1970, a new Marxist guerrilla movement emerged in the lowlands near La Paz, this time constituted mostly by Bolivian university students aligned with the outlawed Ej\u00e9rcito de Liberaci\u00f3n Nacional (National Liberation Army, or ELN). The new guerrilla outbreak was easily controlled, but Ovando's response had been rather vacillating and timid. He offered a generous safe haven to guerrillas who gave up the fight, for example, in contrast to Barrientos' call for \"heads on spikes\" in 1967. The forces of the right had had enough.\nThe October 1970 coup and retirement.\nOn 6 October 1970, an anti-government coup d'\u00e9tat took place via a junta of commanders of the Bolivian Military. However, the polarized forces of the military were evenly split. Much blood was shed on the streets of various major cities, with garrisons fighting each other on behalf of one camp or the other. Eventually, President Ovando sought asylum in a foreign embassy, believing all hope was lost. But the leftist military forces re-asserted themselves under the combative leadership of General Juan Jos\u00e9 Torres, and eventually triumphed. Embarrassed by his quick abandonment of the fight, and worn out by 13 grueling months in office, Ovando agreed to leave the presidency in the hands of his friend, General Torres. The latter was sworn in and rewarded Ovando with the Bolivian ambassadorship to Spain. Ovando remained in Madrid until 1978, when he returned to Bolivia. In his latter years, he supported the progressive UDP alliance of former President Hern\u00e1n Siles, but otherwise never participated in active politics again. He died in La Paz on 4 January 1982, at the age of 63. His wife died in 2014."}
{"id": "761558", "revid": "152352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761558", "title": "Belinda Clarke", "text": ""}
{"id": "761559", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761559", "title": "Alfredo Candia", "text": ""}
{"id": "761560", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761560", "title": "Alfredo O. Candia", "text": ""}
{"id": "761561", "revid": "31530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761561", "title": "Test Card E", "text": ""}
{"id": "761562", "revid": "26442336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761562", "title": "Darton railway station", "text": "Darton railway station is a railway station in a large village of Darton, in the Metropolitan Borough of Barnsley, South Yorkshire, England. Train services are provided by Northern Trains.\nThe station was opened by the Manchester and Leeds Railway on 1 January 1850.\nThe railway station is in South Yorkshire but West Yorkshire Metro tickets are also valid to and from this station. The reason for this is that the West-South Yorkshire boundary historically ran between the village and its main source of employment, Woolley Colliery.\nThe car park at the station was recently reported by the local police force as having the highest incidence of vehicle break-ins in the Barnsley area, but the installation of CCTV is hoped to address this problem.\nFacilities.\nThe station is unstaffed and no longer has any permanent buildings aside from standard waiting shelters on each side (the old buildings were demolished after the station lost its staffing in 1970). Timetable posters and digital display screens provide train running information and there is step-free access to both platforms.\nServices.\nThere is an hourly service to via and northbound and to via Barnsley southbound (though the last northbound train each day terminates at Wakefield Kirkgate). The service is two-hourly in each direction on Sundays."}
{"id": "761567", "revid": "50527415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761567", "title": "Brian Redhead", "text": "Brian Leonard Redhead (28 December 1929 \u2013 23 January 1994) was a British author, journalist and broadcaster. He was a co-presenter of the \"Today\" programme on BBC Radio 4 from 1975 until 1993, shortly before his death. He was a great lover and promoter of the city of Manchester and the North West in general, where he lived for most of his career.\nEducation and early life.\nRedhead was born in Newcastle upon Tyne. He was the only child of Ernest Leonard Redhead, a silk screen printer and advertising agent, and his wife, Janet Crossley (n\u00e9e Fairley). He was educated at the Royal Grammar School, Newcastle. After national service, he read history at the University of Cambridge as an undergraduate student of Downing College, Cambridge.\nCareer.\nRedhead's career in journalism started in 1954 as a journalist for the \"Manchester Guardian\" newspaper. He married Jean Salmon (known as Jenni) on 19 June 1954. They had four children: two sons, Stephen and James, and twins, Annabel (known as Abby) and William.\nHe became northern editor of \"The Guardian\" in 1965, and editor of the \"Manchester Evening News\" in 1969. After being passed over for the editorship of \"The Guardian\" in favour of Peter Preston in 1975, he left to join the \"Today\" programme on BBC Radio 4, replacing Robert Robinson. He was already an experienced broadcaster, having been 'discovered' around 1960 by a BBC Manchester producer, Olive Shapley, who was looking for a presenter of a television programme called \"Something to Read\":I held auditions over two days and there were some promising people. However, on the second day a young man turned up who was clearly highly intelligent and knowledgable [\"sic\"], oozed confidence, communicated effortlessly through the camera, was very funny and never stopped talking. I knew instantly that this was the one.Later, Redhead presented \"Points North\" on television, and chaired the Saturday night Radio 4 topical conversation programme \"A Word in Edgeways\" for many years.\nIn the 1970s Redhead appeared twice on BBC Two's music panel quiz \"Face the Music\": on 10 June 1974 and on 24 September 1975.\nHe formed a partnership with fellow \"Today\" presenter John Timpson which lasted for over 10 years. Redhead and Timpson had a series of running jokes on the programme, including the mythical organisations \"The Friends of the M6\" (long-suffering motorists trapped in its frequent traffic jams) and \"The League of Pear-Shaped Men\" (of which he and Timpson were the principal members).\nHis sense of humour often appeared in asides in the \"Today\" programme. Talking of a convoy moving at 3\u00a0mph, Redhead observed that was probably 3\u00a0mph faster than they were moving on the M25 motorway that morning. When working the same slot as John Humphrys, he gleefully reported that Humphrys had turned up for work on his day off (probably before 6.00am) and was livid. On another occasion, he reported that the weather would be \"brighter in the north than the south, like the people\". Sue MacGregor and Peter Hobday were also co-presenters, and the team was celebrated in 1987. \nDuring his time on the \"Today\" programme, Redhead was accused of political bias by Conservative Chancellor Nigel Lawson, and in reply enquired \"Do you think we should have a one-minute silence now in this interview, one for you to apologise for daring to suggest that you know how I vote and secondly perhaps in memory of monetarism which you have now discarded?\" He later had a similar set-to with Trade and Industry Secretary Peter Lilley.\nThe feeling was that Redhead was to the left of his co-presenter John Timpson. Many years later Libby Purves, who also presented \"Today\" at the time, characterised them as classic opposites \u2013 Redhead the self-made Northerner, with social democratic leanings and aspirations to better himself, Timpson the gentle (and, perhaps, gently declining in terms of social prestige) old-school conservative middle class Southerner. In her words, Timpson \"wanted it to be 1950\", while Redhead \"was more than ready for the New Britain of the 21st century, although he died before seeing its birth\". However, Redhead claimed to be more of a Tory wet, not a socialist, and stated that he had cast a personal vote for Macclesfield's Conservative MP, Nicholas Winterton.\nThe death of Redhead's youngest son, William, in a car crash in France in 1982, aged 18, led him to rediscover religious faith, and he became a confirmed member of the Church of England a few months later. In the Radio 4 series \"The Good Book\", he charted the history of the Bible.\nIn the last years of his life, there was some speculation that after his retirement from \"Today\" he would train for ordination as an Anglican priest. He was also a strong supporter of the hospice movement, ambiguously calling it \"the best thing that has happened in this country since the Second World War\". He served as Chancellor of the University of Manchester.\nDuring the First Gulf War in 1991, he was a volunteer presenter on the BBC Radio 4 News FM service.\nPublications.\nDuring his career he published the following books:\nPersonal life.\nRedhead married Jean (Jenni) Salmon in 1954 and had four children.\nIn 1993, his health started to fail and he was in pain on his left side and leg. He was thought to need hip surgery, but in fact had a ruptured appendix which was leaking toxins, causing liver and kidney failure and other problems. He took leave from \"Today\" in early December, expecting to return after Christmas, but died in January 1994."}
{"id": "761568", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761568", "title": "Ludwig Andreas Khevenh\u00fcller Graf von Aschelberg-Frankenburg", "text": ""}
{"id": "761570", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761570", "title": "Karl Wendlinger", "text": "Karl Wendlinger (; born 20 December 1968) is an Austrian professional racing and former Formula One driver.\nMercedes Juniors.\nBorn in Kufstein, Wendlinger started his career in karting and in Formula Ford before entering the German Formula 3 Championship in 1988. After managing tenth place in that inaugural season, Wendlinger won the crown in 1989, which earned him also a drive in the Mercedes-Benz sportscar team for 1990.\nDriving the Sauber-Mercedes C11 \u2013 alongside Michael Schumacher, Heinz-Harald Frentzen, Mauro Baldi and Jean-Louis Schlesser \u2013 the quintet managed to achieve fifth place in the 1990 World Sportscar Championship standings.\nIn 1991, Wendlinger continued to race with Mercedes sportscars\u00a0\u2014 alongside a Formula 3000 programme with the Helmut Marko team. Towards the end of the year, Mercedes's team boss Jochen Neerpasch placed two of his prot\u00e9g\u00e9s in Formula One. Schumacher went to the Jordan team before signing for Benetton, whilst Wendlinger made a low key Formula One debut with the Leyton House outfit for the final two Grands Prix of the season.\nFormula One.\n1991\u20131992: Leyton House/March.\nWendlinger's Formula One debut came at the 1991 Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka, bringing some money to the beleaguered Leyton House team in place of long-serving Ivan Capelli. He qualified in 22nd place in a field of 26, but was unable to convert that into anything more, after he retired due to a big collision at turn one, between himself, JJ Lehto, Andrea de Cesaris and Emanuele Pirro. His second race didn't fare much better as the Adelaide circuit was a wash-out, torrential rain leading to a curtailed event. Wendlinger was classified in 20th place, two laps down on eventual winner Ayrton Senna, after aquaplaning on some of the huge puddles of water present that day.\nWendlinger was kept at the renamed March team in 1992, alongside Paul Belmondo. The team were struggling financially due to the withdrawal of the Leyton House organisation, the only modifications to the 1991 car being reworking the cockpit to accommodate Wendlinger's tall frame. The results were very encouraging, including starting seventh at the opening South African Grand Prix but results were limited by the team's financial restraints. For example, at the Spanish Grand Prix the drying track at the start saw the Footwork team make a late change of tyres to their cars on the starting grid, incurring a fine but finishing fifth and seventh. Wendlinger was eighth, March being unable to afford the fine for changing his tyres at the same time. However, at the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal, a race of attrition allowed Wendlinger to bring the car home in fourth position, albeit a lap down\u00a0\u2014 but nonetheless a huge result considering the financial troubles his team were in. These three points allowed Wendlinger to finish 12th in the Drivers' Championship ahead of respected names such as Ivan Capelli, Thierry Boutsen, Johnny Herbert and former Brabham and Tyrrell driver Stefano Modena.\n1993\u20131995: Sauber.\nFor 1993, Wendlinger was re-united with Peter Sauber, who that year had become a Formula One team owner. Much was expected of the team and early on Wendlinger and teammate JJ Lehto mixed with the front runners. Initially, he was out-paced by Lehto, who scored points in two of the first four races, though some of this was down to bad luck; Wendlinger had qualified fifth at Donington for example, only to be eliminated by Michael Andretti on the first lap. At the Monaco Grand Prix, Wendlinger and Lehto collided, the team blaming Lehto. After that, Wendlinger's results improved. He scored his first point of the season in the next round and added three more points scores\u00a0\u2014 the best being fourth at the Italian Grand Prix after a long battle with Andretti. Other points finishes in Portugal and Hungary helped give Wendlinger 12th in the Drivers' Championship again with seven points\u00a0\u2014 two points and a place ahead of the more experienced Lehto.\nFor 1994, Wendlinger was retained as Mercedes made their official return to Formula One, buying a stake in Ilmor and becoming the team's engine supplier. Heinz-Harald Frentzen arrived in place of Lehto. The season started well for Wendlinger: He scored a point in the first race of the year at Interlagos and drove to fourth place in the San Marino race, an event marred by the deaths of both Wendlinger's countryman Roland Ratzenberger and the 3-time world champion Ayrton Senna.\nThe next race was in Monaco for the fourth round of the Championship. During the first practice session, Wendlinger exited the tunnel and lost control of the car under braking for the Nouvelle Chicane. The Sauber, sliding sideways, hit a barrier with considerable force; the barrier was protected by large plastic containers that were supposed to be filled with water but were not. Although his vital signs were quickly stabilized, he remained in a coma for several weeks and did not drive in a race for the rest of the year. He had planned to make his comeback at the Japanese Grand Prix, but pre-race testing revealed his neck was not strong enough.\nWendlinger recovered from his injuries before the start of the 1995 Formula One season, where he would be driving at Sauber (now with Ford engines) alongside Frentzen. However, he performed poorly and was reluctantly replaced in the team before the Monaco Grand Prix, a year on from the accident, by Jean-Christophe Boullion. Peter Sauber then recalled Wendlinger for the final two races of the season in one last attempt to regain his pre-accident form, without success. Wendlinger later recounted that he had admitted to himself that his Monaco crash had left him unable to \"withstand the stresses and strains of Formula One\".\nAfter Formula One.\nSince then, Wendlinger has competed successfully in sports cars and touring cars, winning the FIA GT Championship (with Olivier Beretta) in 1999. After a spell racing for Abt-Audi in DTM in 2002 and 2005, he raced for JMB Racing in FIA GT again, driving a Maserati MC12 with Andrea Bertolini.\nSince 2006, Wendlinger has been part of the JetAlliance Racing team, competing again in the FIA GT Championship. His teammate in 2006 was Phillip Peter, and in 2007 his teammate was Scottish driver, Ryan Sharp.\nIn 2007, Wendlinger competed at the 24 Hours of Daytona with Sigal Sport team in a BMW powered Riley DP. He crashed during the night on his in lap at the end of his second stint and was sent to the hospital as a precaution. The car eventually was retired from the damage.\n2008.\nWendlinger competed for JetAlliance Racing in 2008 alongside Ryan Sharp. They started well at the RAC Tourist Trophy round from Silverstone. Wendlinger and Sharp won the GT1 class and overall race ahead of Michael Bartels and Andrea Bertolini's Maserati MC12.\nPersonal life.\nWendlinger is married and has two children. His son is a professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Dutch side Almere City FC.\nHelmet.\nWendlinger's helmet is yellow with 2 blue parallel lines in the middle of the helmet, a blue circle on the top and 3 red white red arrows between the parallel lines."}
{"id": "761571", "revid": "1754504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761571", "title": "Test Card G", "text": ""}
{"id": "761573", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761573", "title": "Jose Tomas Ovalle y Bezanilla", "text": ""}
{"id": "761574", "revid": "40857617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761574", "title": "Chan\u00e9 dialect", "text": "Chan\u00e9 is an extinct language of Argentina and Bolivia. It was either a dialect of, or closely related to, the Terena language of the Arawakan language family. There is little data on this language. In Argentina, it was spoken in Salta province."}
{"id": "761575", "revid": "29060594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761575", "title": "Diencephalon", "text": "In the human brain, the diencephalon (or interbrain) is a division of the forebrain (embryonic \"prosencephalon\"). It is situated between the telencephalon and the midbrain (embryonic \"mesencephalon\"). The diencephalon has also been known as the tweenbrain in older literature. It consists of structures that are on either side of the third ventricle, including the thalamus, the hypothalamus, the epithalamus and the subthalamus.\nThe diencephalon is one of the main vesicles of the brain formed during embryonic development. During the third week of development a neural tube is created from the ectoderm, one of the three primary germ layers, and forms three main vesicles: the prosencephalon, the mesencephalon and the rhombencephalon. The prosencephalon gradually divides into the telencephalon (the cerebrum) and the diencephalon.\nStructure.\nThe diencephalon consists of the following structures:\nAttachments.\nThe optic nerve (CNII) attaches to the diencephalon. The optic nerve is a sensory (afferent) nerve responsible for vision and sight; it runs from the eye through the optic canal in the skull and attaches to the diencephalon. The retina itself is derived from the optic cup, a part of the embryonic diencephalon.\nFunction.\nThe diencephalon is the region of the embryonic vertebrate neural tube that gives rise to anterior forebrain structures including the thalamus, hypothalamus, posterior portion of the pituitary gland, and the pineal gland. The diencephalon encloses a cavity called the third ventricle. The thalamus serves as a relay centre for sensory and motor impulses between the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, and the cerebrum. It recognizes sensory impulses of heat, cold, pain, pressure etc. The floor of the third ventricle is called the hypothalamus. It has control centres for control of eye movement and hearing responses."}
{"id": "761577", "revid": "14984434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761577", "title": "Otto Ferdinand von Abensperg und Traun", "text": "Otto Ferdinand Graf von Abensperg und Traun (or sometimes Otto Ferdinand von Abensperg und Traun), (27 August 167718 February 1748) was an Austrian \"Generalfeldmarschall\". The current spelling of the name, and the spelling used in his time, is mostly Abensperg.\nLife.\nA member of the ancient Abensberg-Traun family, he was born at \u00d6denburg, Kingdom of Hungary and was the son of Imperial Count Otto Laurenz von Abensperg und Traun (1638\u20131695) and his second wife, Eva Susanna R\u00fcber von Pixendorf (1645\u20131695). He was sent to Halle to complete his education, but in 1693 left the university to serve with the Prussian contingent of the allied army in the Low Countries. He saw extensive service in the War of the Grand Alliance, and at its close entered the Imperial Army. The War of the Spanish Succession soon followed, in which Traun served with distinction in Italy and on the Rhine till 1709, when he became lieutenant-colonel and \"aide-de-camp\" to Field Marshal Count Guido Starhemberg (1654\u20131737) in Spain.\nA year later, for specially distinguished services, he was made a colonel, and in 1712 the chief of a regiment of foot. Soon after the close of the war he was again actively employed, and at the action of Francavilla in Sicily (20 June 1719) he received a severe wound. For his services in this campaign in southern Italy he was promoted to \"Generalfeldwachtmeister\" in 1723. In 1727 he became governor of Messina, and in 1733 he attained the rank of lieutenant field marshal.\nIn 1734 he won a European reputation for his defence of the pass of S. Germano and subsequent defence of the half-ruined fortress of Capua during the southern Italian campaign of the War of the Polish Succession, which he surrendered, marching out with the honours of war on 30 November. He was at once promoted Feldzeugmeister and employed in a difficult semi-political command in Hungary, after which he was made commander-in-chief in northern Italy and interim governor-general of the Milanese, in which capacity he received the homage of the army and civil authorities on the accession of Maria Theresa in 1740. In the following year he was made a field-marshal.\nHe successfully conducted the Italian campaigns of the War of the Austrian Succession up to 1743, when, on the death of Field-Marshal Count Khevenh\u00fcller, he was made the principal military adviser of Prince Charles Alexander of Lorraine, who commanded the Austrians in Bohemia and on the Danube. In this capacity he inspired the brilliant operations which led up to the passage of the Rhine and the skillful strategy whereby Frederick of Prussia was forced to evacuate Bohemia and Moravia (1744) without a battle.\nTraun's last active service was the command of an army which was sent to Frankfurt to influence the election of a new emperor to succeed Charles VII. He died at Hermannstadt (Sibiu, present Romania) on 18 February 1748 and was buried in the local Jesuit Church.\nPromotions.\nTraun was promoted to Generalfeldwachtmeister on October 1723 and to Feldmarschall Leutnant on 8 November 1733. He was raised in rank to Feldzeugmeister on 25 April 1735 and to Field Marshal on 9 April 1741.\nSources.\nAttribution"}
{"id": "761578", "revid": "19196342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761578", "title": "Island Air (Hawaii)", "text": "Island Air (officially Hawaii Island Air) was a commuter airline based in Honolulu, Hawaii. It operated scheduled inter-island passenger services in Hawaii. Its main base was the Daniel K. Inouye International Airport on Oahu.\nThe airline maintained a code share and frequent flyer agreement with United Airlines. Hawaiian Airlines halted its commercial relationship with Island Air in 2012 when it announced plans to begin operating ATR 42 regional turboprop airliners in the islands under its own brand. Island Air also operated its own frequent flyer program, Island Miles (formerly Cloud 9).\nIsland Air ceased all operations on 10 November 2017 after 37 years of service between Hawaii's islands, carrying 13% of intra-Hawaii seats in the first three quarters of 2017, competing against Hawaiian Airlines carrying 80%. For the second quarter of 2017, Island Air posted an operating loss of $4.9 million and a net loss of $8.2 million, and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on 17 October as it couldn't find new investors to satisfy lessors Wells Fargo Bank Northwest and Elix 8 who want to repossess its five Bombardier Q400s, which replaced five ATRs.\nHistory.\nPrinceville Airways.\nIsland Air was incorporated in 1980 by Colorado-based Consolidated Oil and Gas as Princeville Airways. It began scheduled services on September 9, 1980, between Honolulu (HNL) and Princeville, Kauai (HPV) using two de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter STOL capable turboprop aircraft. It served this initial regular commuter route between Princeville and Honolulu primarily for Princeville Resort guests. The airline then expanded its interisland routes with service to Hana, Maui; Hoolehua, Molokai; Kahului, Maui; Kamuela, Hawaii (Big Island); Kapalua, Maui (West Maui) and Lanai City, Lanai. The Princeville Airways fleet was expanded and eventually consisted of eight DHC-6 Twin Otter aircraft.\nAloha IslandAir.\nIn May 1987, Consolidated Oil and Gas sold Princeville Airways to Aloha Air Group, the parent company of Aloha Airlines. Princeville Airways was renamed Aloha IslandAir and served the growing inter-island commuter market on behalf of Aloha Airlines on routes that could not justify larger Boeing 737-200 jetliners operated by Aloha. In June 1992, Aloha IslandAir registered the name Island Air as its trade name. In 1995, newly renamed Island Air was granted certification by the Federal Aviation Administration to operate larger aircraft to serve the burgeoning commuter market in Hawaii. In April of that year, Island Air took possession of its first thirty-seven seat de Havilland Canada DHC-8 Dash 8 aircraft.\nOwnership under Gavarnie Holding, LLC.\nIn December 2003, it was announced that Gavarnie Holding, LLC would purchase Aloha IslandAir from the Aloha AirGroup, making Island Air Hawaii's third largest independent airline. The purchase was completed on May 11, 2004, and the company was renamed Hawaii Island Air, Inc., although the airline continued to do business as \"Island Air\". After the purchase, Island Air expanded its business, acquiring more aircraft and flying new routes.\nIn May 2008, Island Air was awarded Essential Air Service routes from Kansas City International Airport to Joplin, Missouri, Grand Island, Nebraska, Harrison, Arkansas, and Hot Springs, Arkansas but did not announce specific starting dates. The following month, however, the airline withdrew from its contract after concluding that a mid-September startup date was unrealistic, citing staffing and fuel costs.\nOn August 17, 2009, Island Air discontinued all service to Hilo.\nIn 2012, as the Dash 8 fleet began to approach their useful cycle life, the airline reached out to PenAir of Alaska and wet leased a single Saab 340 turboprop aircraft for 10 months.\nOn July 19, 2012, Island Air revealed a new business model which included a complete image and brand overhaul. This coincided with the arrival of the airline's new ATR fleet of turboprop aircraft in August. The airline also unveiled a new website to go alongside its new brand and image launch.\nOn October 4, 2012, Les Murashige was appointed as the company's new president and CEO replacing Lesley Kaneshiro.\nOwnership under Ohana Airline Holdings, LLC.\nOn January 10, 2013, Island Air announced that the company would be sold to an undisclosed buyer.\nOn January 18, 2013, Oracle Corporation CEO Larry Ellison, who had recently acquired most of the island of Lanai from David H. Murdock, was reported to be the buyer, though this was not confirmed by the airline at the time.\nOn February 26, 2013, the sale to Ellison was complete. That same day, the airline certified its first ATR 72, which would go into service the following day. Ellison appointed Paul Casey, former CEO of Hawaiian Airlines and President of the Hawaii Visitors and Convention Bureau as the company's new president and CEO.\nOn May 31, 2013, Island Air ended service to Kapalua/West Maui Airport, as a result of phasing out the airline's Dash 8 aircraft and the ATR 72's inability to land at the airport's short runway. In conjunction, service was resumed to Kahului, Maui on April 15, 2013.\nIn 2014, Island Air discontinued service to Ho'olehua, Molokai.\nOn September 3, 2014, in a surprise announcement, Island Air appointed David Pflieger, president and chief executive officer of Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based Silver Airways to assume the roles of president and chief executive officer. Effective October 1, 2014, Pflieger replaced former Hawaiian Airlines CEO Paul Casey who was asked to step down. Prior to Silver, Pflieger led the highly successful turnaround at Fiji Airways and was a former Virgin America and Delta Air Lines senior executive.\nIn December, 2014, the airline announced that due to six quarters of prior losses under previous management, it was delaying delivery of new Bombardier Q400 propjet aircraft and also undertaking a comprehensive re-assessment of its fleet, network, and other aspects of its business.\nOn April 29, 2015, Island Air announced it would be eliminating Honolulu service to Kauai beginning June 1 and reducing daily frequency by more than half on its Lanai route starting on that date. The airline also announced it will be cutting its workforce by 20 percent as well as canceling delivery of new aircraft in the short term as the airline works to reposition itself as the second largest carrier in the islands. These changes come after the company cited record financial losses of more than $21 million last year alone.\nIn September, 2015, Island Air began voluntarily reporting its much improved monthly and quarterly on-time performance and flight completion factor (80.4% and 99.2% respectively) so that current and potential customers can see how the airline is performing as it continues to improve and position itself for a strong future as Hawaii's alternative inter island airline.\nOn January 7, 2016, Larry Ellison's Ohana Airline Holdings, LLC announced that it planned to sell a controlling interest in Island Air to PaCap Aviation Finance and Malama Investments, two investment companies managed by local investment firm, PacifiCap.\nOn February 8, 2016, following the formal approval of the transfer in ownership by the U.S. Department of Transportation, it was announced that Dave Pflieger, who joined as CEO in October 2014 and presided over its successful restructuring, turnaround, and sale, would be leaving Island Air to work directly for Ellison in an unspecified role and turning the reins back over to Les Murashige, a former Island Air executive, who would become president and CEO under the airline's new owners, PacifiCap LLC.\nOwnership under PacifiCap.\nOn January 21, 2016, Island Air announced plans to restore service to Kauai beginning on March 15 after suspending flights in June 2015 due to restructuring. The airline stated that approximately 32 airport-related jobs would be created and hinted that expansion aren't done yet with hopes to re-enter other destinations that Island Air previously served.\nIsland Air ended service to Lanai on March 31, 2016.\nOn April 14, 2016, Island Air announced its plans to restart service between Honolulu and Kona starting June 14 with five daily round-trip flights. The last time Island Air served Kona was in December 2012. This service restoration was estimated to create 25 new airport-related jobs. Island Air president and CEO Les Murashige stated that Hilo was also being evaluated.\nOn April 26, 2016, Island Air's CEO Les Murashige and COO Rob Mauracher stepped down from their posts. This was the second time in two months that Island Air had experienced a reshuffling of their senior management team. Shortly thereafter, Island Air named David Uchiyama as its new president and CEO.\nDestinations.\nOn its last days of operations, Island Air served the following destinations:\nFleet.\nThe airline took delivery of a Bombardier Q400 (N539DS) propjet in March 2006 via a five-year lease. In September 2006, the airline announced that it was withdrawing the aircraft from inter-island service the following month, with delivery of two additional Q400s rescheduled to 2007. The airline then returned all Q400 propjets and stated at the time that it had no plans to return these aircraft to service. However, the Q400 was eventually placed back into service by the airline.\n\"Aviation Week &amp; Space Technology\" reported on May 19, 2011, that the airline was looking to add one or two additional Dash 8 aircraft, and was also discussing new aircraft options with ATR, Fokker, Saab, and SuperJet International. The airline announced in late February 2012 that it had reached an agreement to lease six ATR 72 regional turboprop aircraft, along with a smaller Saab 340 turboprop wet leased from PenAir. The airline stated in July 2012 that deliveries of ATR 42 and ATR 72 aircraft would begin the following month.\nAfter acquiring the ATR 72 aircraft, Island Air found them to be unreliable to the point that the airline was reviewing potential replacements . On March 31, 2014, Island Air placed firm orders for two Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 regional turboprop aircraft with the intention of replacing the ATR 72 with Q400.\nDue to record financial losses of more than $21 million, on April 29, 2015, Island Air announced its intention to cancel the delivery of new Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 aircraft in the short term as the airline attempted to reposition itself as the second largest air carrier in the Hawaiian islands.\nOn November 10, 2017, Island Air announced that they would cease operations after 37 years of service. The interisland air carrier was operating Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft at the time of its shutdown.\nAccidents and incidents.\nOn October 28, 1989, a de Havilland Canada DHC-6 Twin Otter operating as Aloha IslandAir Flight 1712 crashed into a mountainous terrain killing 20 people. The National Transportation Safety Board determined that the probable cause of this accident was the airplane's controlled flight into terrain as a result of the decision of the captain to continue flight under visual flight rules at night into instrument meteorological conditions, which obscured rising mountainous terrain.\nServices.\nIsland Miles.\nIsland Miles (formerly Cloud 9) was the travel rewards program of Island Air. The program's airline partners included Star Alliance member United Airlines. Island Air also had an interline agreement with American Airlines. Aloha Airlines was formerly an airline partner until it discontinued passenger operations.\nThe Island Miles program had no membership fee and flight credits were valid for three years following the date of the flight. Island Miles accounts which did not earn any flight credits for two years could be placed on \"inactive status\" and any credits on the account would have been forfeited. After six flight segments, a one-way award ticket was credited to the member, and after 12 flight credits, a round trip award ticket."}
{"id": "761579", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761579", "title": "Constituent Cortes", "text": "The Constituent Cortes () is the description of Spain's parliament, the Cortes, when convened as a constituent assembly.\nIn the 20th century, only one Constituent Cortes was officially opened (Cortes are \"opened\" in accordance with a mediaeval royal proclamation), and that was the Republican Cortes in 1931. It drafted a new constitution but its work was overturned by the victory of the Nationalists in the Spanish Civil War.\nThe Cortes in 1977 enacted a new Spanish constitution which it had drafted. It was never officially considered \"constituent\", as the assembly chosen in the 1977 general elections was not mandated at the time to create a new constitution, but to rule under the constitution of the former dictatorship \u2013 the so-called \"Leyes Fundamentales\" (fundamental laws)."}
{"id": "761580", "revid": "40857617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761580", "title": "Chane language", "text": ""}
{"id": "761585", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761585", "title": "Muscovite Russia", "text": ""}
{"id": "761588", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761588", "title": "Jose Tomas Ovalle", "text": ""}
{"id": "761593", "revid": "28241153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761593", "title": "Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s Ovalle", "text": "Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s Ovalle y Bezanilla (; December 21, 1787 \u2013 March 21, 1831) was a Chilean political figure. He served twice as provisional president of Chile.\nEarly life.\nHe was born in Santiago, the son of Vicente Mar\u00eda Ovalle Guzm\u00e1n and of Mar\u00eda del Rosario Bezanilla y Noriega. He studied in the Convictorio Carolino and law at the Universidad de San Felipe, where he obtained his doctorate in both laws in 1809. He married his cousin, Rafaela Bezanilla Bezanilla on April 1, 1812, and had eleven children.\nOvalle was twice elected deputy for Santiago (1823 and 1824\u20131825), supplementary senador (1824), Vice presidente of the Provincial Assembly of Santiago and was a delegate to the Plenipotentiaries Congress of 1830, being elected vice president.\nCivil War of 1829.\nWhen the Chilean Civil War of 1829 broke out between the conservative centralists and the liberal federalists, President Francisco Antonio Pinto was forced twice to leave the post of president to Francisco Ram\u00f3n Vicu\u00f1a Larra\u00edn. First, from July 14 to October 19, when Vicu\u00f1a assumed power as President Delegate, and then finally when he resigned on November 2 and Vicu\u00f1a assumed full power.\nOn December 7, 1829, the conservative troops under General Jos\u00e9 Joaqu\u00edn Prieto Vial, commander of the southern army, approached Santiago from the South. The conservative army decided to halt the march onto Santiago for a while and camped a few miles outside the city. The government under Vicu\u00f1a fled northward to Coquimbo. On December 14, 1829, General Prieto and his troops met the liberal army under Francisco de la Lastra and defeated them at the Battle of Ochagav\u00eda. Then, the two military leaders signed a peace treaty, which complicated the political situation further. Meanwhile, President Vicu\u00f1a and his ministers were imprisoned by the victorious conservative troops in Valparaiso.\nFirst administration.\nChile was without a leader for a few weeks (from December 7 to 24, 1829) until a Government Junta was organized and took control, in order to avoid the continuance of hostilities, under a neutral Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s Ovalle who was acceptable to both sides. This junta ruled the country from December 24, 1829, to February 18, 1830. Finally an agreement was found with the involvement of Ram\u00f3n Freire which nominated Francisco Ruiz-Tagle Portales as acting president.\nSecond administration.\nBecause of internal dissent with his ministers, Ruiz-Tagle Portales resigned six weeks later on March 31, 1830, and was succeeded by vice president Ovalle who assumed as a transitional president, and held the position until the advanced state of his tuberculosis forced him to ask for a constitutional leave on March 8, 1831. He died almost two weeks later on March 21, 1831 at 9 AM, and his remains were interred under the altar of the Santiago Cathedral, where they were lost during the renovations of the 19th century and found again in 2004.\nAfter Jos\u00e9 Tom\u00e1s Ovalle died, he was replaced by the President of the Plenipotentiaries Congress, Fernando Err\u00e1zuriz Aldunate, who took over on March 31, 1831, with the title of \"Accidental Vice President of the Republic\". Err\u00e1zuriz Aldunate called new elections, where General Jos\u00e9 Joaqu\u00edn Prieto Vial was elected. General Prieto was installed on September 18, 1831, and thus began the era of the decade governments."}
{"id": "761594", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761594", "title": "Test-card music", "text": ""}
{"id": "761596", "revid": "20585603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761596", "title": "DSDP", "text": "DSDP may refer to:"}
{"id": "761597", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761597", "title": "Jos\u00e9 Ovalle", "text": ""}
{"id": "761598", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761598", "title": "Jos\u00e9 T. Ovalle", "text": ""}
{"id": "761599", "revid": "66", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761599", "title": "Richard Outcault", "text": ""}
{"id": "761601", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761601", "title": "Deep Sea Drilling Project", "text": "The Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) was an ocean drilling project operated from 1968 to 1983. The program was a success, as evidenced by the data and publications that have resulted from it. The data are now hosted by Texas A&amp;M University, although the program was coordinated by the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego. DSDP provided crucial data to support the seafloor spreading hypothesis and helped to prove the theory of plate tectonics. DSDP was the first of three international scientific ocean drilling programs that have operated over more than 40 years. It was followed by the Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) in 1985, the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program in 2004 and the present International Ocean Discovery Program in 2013.\nHistory.\nThe initial contract between the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the Regents of the University of California was signed on June 24, 1966. This contract initiated the first phase of the DSDP, which was based in Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego. Global Marine, Inc. conducted the drilling operations. The Levingston Shipbuilding Company laid the keel of the \"Glomar Challenger\" on October 18, 1967, in Orange, Texas. It sailed down the Sabine River to the Gulf of Mexico, and after a period of testing, DSDP accepted the ship on August 11, 1968.\nThrough contracts with Joint Oceanographic Institutions (JOI), NSF supported the scientific advisory structure for the project and funded pre-drilling geophysical site surveys. Scientific planning was conducted under the auspices of the Joint Oceanographic Institutions for Deep Earth Sampling (JOIDES). The JOIDES advisory group consisted of 250 distinguished scientists from academic institutions, government agencies, and private industry from all over the world. Over the next 30 months, the second phase consisted of drilling and coring in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Ocean as well as the Mediterranean and Red Sea. Technical and scientific reports followed during the period. The second phase of DSDP ended on August 11, 1972.\nThe success of the \"Glomar Challenger\" was almost immediate. On one of the sites with a water depth of , core samples revealed the existence of salt domes. Oil companies received samples after an agreement to publish their analysis. The potential of oil beneath deep ocean salt domes remains an important avenue for commercial development today.\nAs for the purpose of the scientific exploration, one of the most important discoveries was made when the crew drilled 17 holes at 10 different locations along an oceanic ridge between South America and Africa. The retrieved core samples provided strong proof for continental drift and seafloor renewal at rift zones. This confirmation of Alfred Wegener's theory of continental drift strengthened the proposal of a single, ancient land mass, which is called Pangaea. The samples gave further evidence to support the plate tectonics theory, which at the time attempted to explain the formation of mountain ranges, earthquakes, and oceanic trenches. Another discovery was how youthful the ocean floor is in comparison to Earth's geologic history. After analysis of samples, scientists concluded that the ocean floor is probably no older than 200 million years. This is in comparison with the 4.5 billion-year age of the Earth.\nThe International Phase of Ocean Drilling (IPOD) began in 1975 with the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and France joining the United States in field work aboard the \"Glomar Challenger\" and in post-cruise scientific research. The Glomar Challenger docked for the last time with DSDP in November 1983. Parts of the ship, such as its dynamic positioning system, engine telegraph, and thruster console, are stored at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. With the advent of larger and more advanced drilling ships, the JOIDES Resolution replaced the \"Glomar Challenger\" in January 1985. The new program, called the Ocean Drilling Program (ODP), continued exploration from 1985 to 2003, at which point it was replaced by the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP).\nCoring operations.\nAlthough itself a remarkable engineering accomplishment, the \"Glomar Challenger\" saw many advances in deep-ocean drilling. One problem solved involved the replacement of worn drill bits. A length of pipe suspended from the ship down to the bottom of the sea might have been as long as . The maximum depth penetrated through the ocean bottom could have been as great as . To replace the bit, the drill string must be raised, a new bit attached, and the string remade down to the bottom. However, the crew had to thread this string back into the same drill hole. The technique for this formidable task was accomplished on June 14, 1970, in the Atlantic Ocean in of water off the coast of New York. This re-entry was accomplished with the use of sonar scanning equipment and a re-entry cone that had a diameter of and height of .\nOne major technological advance was the extended use of the holes after drilling. Geophysical and geochemical measurements were made during and after drilling, and occasionally long-term seismic monitoring devices were installed in the holes. This extended understanding of the dynamic processes involved in plate tectonics. Another technological advance involved the introduction of the hydraulic piston corer (HPC) in 1979, which permitted the recovery of virtually undisturbed cores of sediment.\nThis greatly enhanced the ability of scientists to study ancient ocean environments.\nFrom August 11, 1968, to November 11, 1983, the Glomar Challenger achieved the following accomplishments:\nCore samples, publications, and data.\nThe ship retrieved core samples in cores with a diameter of . These cores are currently stored at three repositories in the US, Germany, and Japan. One half of each core is called the archive half and is preserved for future use. The working half of each core is used to provide samples for ongoing scientific research.\nThe scientific results were published as the \"Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project\", which contains the results of studies of the recovered core material and the associated geophysical information from the expeditions from 1968 to 1983. These reports describe the core materials and scientific data obtained at sea and in shore-based laboratories post-cruise. These volumes were originally prepared for NSF under contract by the University of California, Scripps Institution of Oceanography. In 2007, the printed books were scanned and prepared for electronic presentation by the Texas A&amp;M University College of Geosciences.\nDiscovery and accomplishment in Antarctic region.\nDSDP completed four drilling programs; Legs 28, 29, 35 and 36 around Antarctica during four Austral summers, 1972\u201373, 1973\u201374, 1974\u201375 and 1975\u201376. These programs were focused on two main objectives: Cenozoic global paleoclimatic changes and plate tectonic movements around Antarctica. \nThere were a total of 15 wells drilled around the Antarctic continent, including 4 wells in the Ross Sea, 5 wells on the continental margins, 2 wells in the abyssal plain and 4 wells across the SE Indian Ridge, among which the Site 270 was drilled at the highest latitude (77\u00b0 26.45\u2032 S). Analyses of data collected from the drilling accomplish the following results:\nSea floor spreading.\nPrior to the deep sea drilling program, the ages of the oceanic basalt were estimated based on magnetic lineations generated at the spreading center as the sea floor pulled apart. Sediments immediately overlying the basalt should have ages similar to the age of magnetic stripes. This is confirmed by the micropaleontologic analyses of the basal sediments sampled above the penetrated basalts. These analyses furthermore substantiate that Australia was separated from Antarctic 85 Mya [million years ago]\nInception of Antarctic ice cap.\nBased on paleo-soil study, the Ross shelf began to sink below sea-level about 25 Mya in the Oligocene. This suggests that Antarctic glaciers already advanced to the Ross Sea shelf. This age is consistent with the dating of the shallow unconformity seen on the seismic profiles. The unconformity was attributed to the glacier erosion when advancing to the coastal area. Development of the Circum Antarctic Current was also initiated in the Oligocene. In addition, drilling onshore around the Ross Sea and on the Antarctic Peninsular also confirms that Antarctic ice sheet already existed at least since the Oligocene.\nIce-rafted debris.\nThe occurrence of ice-rafted debris in marine sediments is an indication of icebergs' presence. Hence the earliest occurrence in the high latitudes could possibly reveal the inception of sea-level glaciations. It should be pointed out that there are factors influencing the distribution of ice-rafted debris, such as ocean currents, and sea water near surface temperatures. Hence the earliest occurrence should be considered as the minimum age of ice rafting at sample locations. Investigations of ice-rafted debris reasonably conclude that the Antarctic ice sheet was initiated at least 25 Mya and cumulated at about 4.5 Mya, as evidenced by ice-rafted debris reaching farthest away from the continent\nThis interpretation of Antarctic glaciation history based on marine sediments was subsequently supported by the onshore study of the Antarctic Peninsular and by the coring results around McMurdo Ice Shelf.\nPaleoclimate.\nMicropaleontologic data from deep sea sediments around the Antarctic continental margin indicate that since at least the late Oligocene-early Miocene, surface waters were relatively cool. With the continued cooling trend, the cold water mass gradually expanded northward until early Pliocene during which an intensified cooling episode resulted in a temperature minimum as evidenced by the northward shift of the silica/carbonate facies boundary. This deduction is similar to the conclusion based on ice-rated debris studies.\nSurface temperatures inferred from the oxygen and carbon isotope analyses of both benthonic and planktonic foraminifera in high-latitude marine sediments show a general continuous cooling since early Eocene with a significant temperature drop at the Oligocene/Eocene boundary. This surface water temperature appears to indicate that Antarctic ice sheet probable at this time already reached to the coast. Glaciers on the continent at higher altitudes, however, may have started to grow since the early Eocene. This conclusion is in consistence with other reports documented above."}
{"id": "761603", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761603", "title": "Hino Rei", "text": ""}
{"id": "761605", "revid": "635492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761605", "title": "Mahamane Ousmane", "text": "Mahamane Ousmane (born 20 January 1950) is a Nigerien politician. Elected as the fourth President of Niger at 43 years old, he is the youngest elected president in Africa. He was also the first democratically elected president of his country, serving from 16 April 1993 until he was deposed in a military \"coup d'\u00e9tat\" on 27 January 1996. He has continued to run for president in each election since his ouster, and he was president of the National Assembly from December 1999 to May 2009. Since April 2020, he is the president of the Democratic and Republican Renewal (RDR Tchanji), a major political party that is currently in opposition. RDR Tchanji formed an alliance with Ousmane's other political vehicle, MNRD Hankuri, on 16 December 2018.\n1993 presidential election.\nOusmane, the candidate of the CDS, ran for president in the election held on 27 February 1993. He received second place, with 26.59% of the vote, behind Tandja Mamadou of the National Movement for the Development of Society (MNSD); however, with the backing of a coalition of parties known as the Alliance of the Forces of Change (AFC), Ousmane won the presidency in the second round, held on 27 March, taking 54.42%.\nPresidency.\nDuring the second part of Ousmane's term, the AFC, which included Ousmane's party, held a parliamentary majority. In September 1993, however, Ousmane issued a decree that reduced the powers of the prime minister; the resignation of prime minister Mahamadou Issoufou soon followed, along with the withdrawal of his party, the Nigerien Party for Democracy and Socialism (PNDS), from the governing coalition. This left the coalition without a parliamentary majority; despite this, Ousmane appointed his CDS ally Souley Abdoulaye as prime minister, but the parliament quickly passed a vote of no confidence against Abdoulaye. Consequently, new parliamentary elections were called for January 1995. These elections resulted in a victory for the opposition, composed of a new alliance between the MNSD and the PNDS, and forced cohabitation between Ousmane and a government headed by MNSD Prime Minister Hama Amadou. This resulted in sharp rivalry and government deadlock; beginning in April, Ousmane refused to attend meetings of the Council of Ministers although he was constitutionally required to do so, and in July Amadou replaced the heads of state-owned companies, a move which Ousmane wanted to be reversed. Amadou also tried to assume the presidential role with regard to the Council of Ministers. Tensions continued to escalate, and Ousmane made clear his intention to dissolve the parliament and call new elections after the passing of one year (he was constitutionally prohibited from doing so sooner).\nOn 27 January 1996, Ibrahim Bar\u00e9 Ma\u00efnassara seized power in a military coup, pointing to the disordered political situation as justification. Ousmane was arrested and held at a military barracks for five days; he was then placed under house arrest until 24 April as were Amadou and Issoufou. In February, Ousmane was put on television, along with Amadou and Issoufou, to express the view that flaws in the operation of the political system were the cause of the coup, and to call for changes in the system.\n1996 and 1999 elections.\nOusmane received second place, with 19.75% of the vote, in the 7\u20138 July, 1996 presidential election, which was won by Ma\u00efnassara; on the second day of polling he was again placed under house arrest and was freed after two weeks. Following a pro-democracy demonstration on 11 January 1997, Ousmane was arrested along with Tandja and Issoufou and held until 23 January.\nOusmane took third place, with 22.51% of the vote, in the October 1999 presidential election, which occurred after the assassination of Ma\u00efnassara; he placed slightly behind second-place finisher Issoufou and therefore did not participate in the run-off held in November. Ousmane gave his support to Tandja, and Tandja defeated Issoufou to win the second round.\nThe November 1999 parliamentary election gave a majority to an alliance of Tandja's MNSD and Ousmane's CDS. Ousmane was elected to the National Assembly from Zinder constituency, and on 29 December 1999, he was elected President of the National Assembly.\nEvents since 1999.\nOusmane was elected as the president of the Interparliamentary Committee of the West African Economic and Monetary Union on 9 March 2003, at its 12th session, and he was re-elected to that post at the 13th session in March 2004. He was also elected as the president of the Committee on the Human Rights of Parliamentarians of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) on 15 January 2004.\nOusmane was again chosen as the CDS presidential candidate at the party's fifth extraordinary congress, held on 18 September 2004. He took third place in the November 2004 presidential election, receiving 17.4% of the vote. Following the December 2004 parliamentary election, Ousmane was re-elected President of the National Assembly on 16 December.\nOn 14 November 2006, Ousmane was elected as Speaker of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Parliament, defeating another Nigerien politician, Moumouni Adamou Djermakoye, by a vote of 58 to 37. He was to lead the regional parliament's second legislature through a four-year transition period, which was set to end in 2010. In that position, he faced the task of coordinating the processes that would facilitate the introduction of direct universal suffrage in the election of members of the Parliament.\nObjecting to Tandja's efforts to call a referendum on a constitutional change that could allow him to continue as president, the CDS left the government in June 2009. Ousmane stressed that the CDS wanted the constitution to be respected and that Tandja \"must submit himself to the decision of the Constitutional Court\", which had ruled against the referendum.\nIn opposition, the CDS participated in an opposition boycott of the August 2009 constitutional referendum as well as the October 2009 parliamentary election. With the hostility between the opposition and the Tandja government deepening, the authorities issued a warrant for Ousmane's arrest; they also issued arrest warrants for PNDS President Mahamadou Issoufou and former Prime Minister Hama Amadou. Ousmane was living outside of Niger by that point. Following talks with officials from the European Union on 8 December 2009, Prime Minister Ali Badjo Gamatie announced that the arrest warrants were suspended to facilitate dialogue with the opposition. Ousmane said on 10 December that the move was encouraging, but that it was also necessary for the government to release those who he characterized as political prisoners. However, the arrest warrants were reactivated two weeks later, diminishing hopes for further dialogue. The government warned that Ousmane and the other opposition leaders would face arrest if they entered Niger.\nTandja was ousted in a military coup on 18 February 2010. That made it possible for Ousmane to return to Niger without being arrested, and he \"arrived discreetly\" on a flight from Abuja on 24 March 2010.\nOusmane was again chosen as the CDS presidential candidate for the February 2011 elections. He was unsuccessful in returning to the presidency again; this time coming in fourth place with 8.2% of the vote. In the 2016 presidential election, Ousmane again came fourth with 6.2% of the vote. In the 2020\u201321 election, he advanced to a runoff but lost to Mohamed Bazoum with 44.3% of the vote."}
{"id": "761606", "revid": "6127189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761606", "title": "Honeywell, South Yorkshire", "text": ""}
{"id": "761608", "revid": "41049936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761608", "title": "Gilroyd", "text": "Gilroyd is a village in the Metropolitan Borough of Barnsley in South Yorkshire, England. The village falls within the Dodworth ward of Barnsley MBC."}
{"id": "761609", "revid": "20957809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761609", "title": "Toronto Lynx", "text": " \nToronto Lynx was a Canadian soccer team based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Founded in 1997, the team last played in the 2014 season of the Premier Development League (PDL), the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid, in the Great Lakes Division of the Central Conference. The team played its home games at Centennial Park Stadium, where they had played since 2003. The team's colours were white, gold and black. The team had a sister organization, the Toronto Lady Lynx, who played in the women's USL W-League, and also fielded a team in the USL's Super-20 League, a league for players 17 to 20 years of age run under the United Soccer Leagues umbrella.\nIn 2015, the Lynx men's senior team was incorporated into League1 Ontario side Oakville Blue Devils. In late 2017, the teams merged completely under Oakville's umbrella.\nHistory.\nA-League/USL First Division.\nThe Toronto Lynx announced its expansion rights in Toronto on June 24, 1996, and played their first A-League game in Jacksonville, Florida, on April 12, 1997, falling 3\u20131 to the Jacksonville Cyclones. The Toronto Lynx set an A-League record of 10 consecutive wins during their first season in 1997. In 2000, the Lynx proceeded to the Eastern Conference Finals and only a 1\u20130 loss to the Rochester Raging Rhinos kept the Lynx out of the A-League Championship game. Despite these temporary successes, over the years it spent in the A-League (later renamed USL-D1), the team fared relatively poorly on the field and ultimately failed to consistently draw crowds of more than about 2000 people.\nPeter Pinizzotto was the Toronto Lynx head coach from 1997 to 2003. The team made one playoff appearance under his reign. The next season he would be hired as assistant coach for rivals Montreal Impact. In September 2003, Duncan Wilde was appointed as the new Toronto Lynx head coach for the 2004 season bringing a new philosophy and vision for the club. Wilde also holds the position of Director of the Toronto Lynx Premier Soccer Academy and Super Y-League Program for accomplishing the mission of developing and inspiring youth soccer talent in the Greater Toronto Area. After just one season, Wilde resigned from his head coaching position amidst rumours of owner interference in squad selection. During the 2005 season the team was managed by former Lynx goalkeeper Hubert Busby Jr., though Wilde returned as head coach for the 2006 season. In their debut season in the Open Canada Cup Wilde led the Lynx to the final of the tournament, but were defeated 2\u20130 by Ottawa St. Anthony Italia.\nDuring their time in the A-League and USL First Division, the Lynx were noted for developing a number of notable players, but failed to retain most of them for long, leading to poor results in the league standings.\nOn October 10, 2006, the Lynx announced they were voluntarily relegating themselves two levels, to the USL Premier Development League. The reasons for this were never fully revealed, but it was most likely due to their low attendance (the lowest in the USL 1st Division at that time) and the fact that Major League Soccer expansion franchise Toronto FC would be arriving to the city the next season.\nUSL Premier Development League.\nToronto's first year in the PDL was a difficult one; they lost their opening game 3\u20130 to West Michigan Edge, and didn't pick up their first win until the fifth game of the season, a 2\u20130 defeat away at the Indiana Invaders. The Lynx's main problem was inconsistency, especially away from home, where they suffered several difficult defeats, including a 4\u20130 thrashing at the hands of Michigan Bucks, and a 3\u20131 defeat to Cleveland Internationals in early August. Their home form was generally much better, and they enjoyed several excellent results, notably a comprehensive 5\u20130 win over Indiana Invaders that included a two\u2013goal haul for Murphy Wiredu, and a 5\u20131 revenge win over Cleveland in which Wiredu scored another brace. An unexpected 3\u20131 victory over divisional champs Michigan on the final day of the season ended the year brightly; they finished in fourth place, just six points off a playoff spot. The prolific Murphy Wiredu was the Lynx's top scorer, with 10 goals.\nToronto built on their 2007 form with a generally better season in 2008. They overpowered Fort Wayne Fever 4\u20131 in their opening fixture in front of over 1,200 fans, and enjoyed a scintillating run of form throughout the month of June, picking up five wins two ties in nine games, including a breathless 3\u20132 win over West Michigan Edge in which they scored twice in the last two minutes, and a strong 1\u20130 win over the eventual divisional champions, Michigan Bucks. Despite a pair of impressive back-to-back 4\u20130 wins over Indiana Invaders and Cincinnati Kings in the run-in\u2014the last of which saw all four goals being scored by Daniel Revivo\u2014Toronto's final day defeat to Michigan left them in third place in the Great Lakes division, squeaking into the playoffs on 'games won' ahead of Des Moines Menace, but needing to negotiate a preliminary 'Divisional Round' play-in game against Cleveland Internationals. Unfortunately for the Lynx, Cleveland scored a late winner to take the game 2\u20131, sending the Ontarians home early. Daniel Revivo was Toronto's top scorer, with nine goals on the season, while Welshman Lloyd Grist contributed four assists.\nPlayers.\nNotable former players.\n\"This list of notable former players comprises players who went on to play professional soccer after playing for the team in the Premier Development League, or those who previously played professionally before joining the team.\"\nAverage attendance.\nAttendance stats are calculated by averaging each team's self-reported home attendances from the historical match archive at: USLSoccer.com (archived 5 January 2010)"}
{"id": "761610", "revid": "2278355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761610", "title": "Wilthorpe", "text": "Wilthorpe is an area of Barnsley in South Yorkshire, England.\nBisected by the A635 Huddersfield Road, Wilthorpe has several small shops and an infant school, as well as an ATS garage and a dentist.\nWilthorpe sits in the S75 area of Barnsley, along with the neighbouring districts of Pogmoor, Gawber, and Mapplewell. The village is popular among young professionals who commute to the cities of Leeds, Sheffield and Manchester.\nAmenities.\nThe local pub, The Wilthorpe Hotel, closed in early 2012 and re-opened later that year as a Tesco Express.\nThe main attraction in Wilthorpe is the park, with stunning rose gardens, a reclaimed wildlife area, and a playground. \"Tinkers Pond\" is situated at the bottom of Woodstock Road. This fishing spot was a former reservoir according to the 1850 Ordnance Survey Map of Barnsley. The lower pond is also used for fishing and was formerly the primary water source for the Greenfoot Bleaching Works. This was originally built by Joseph Beckett to bleach locally woven linen, some time before the Barnsley Canal opened here in 1802. Today there still exists evidence of Victorian-era drainage from the old reservoir to the lower pond.\nThe Emmanuel Church, which was built in the late 1990s, serves the area. It also functions as a village hall with several events and clubs held there every week.\nBarnsley Business Innovation Centre.\nWilthorpe is home to the \"Barnsley Business and Innovation Centre\" (BBIC). This was established in 1987 as a private company (limited by guarantee), with a mission to assist in the economic regeneration of the Barnsley Borough."}
{"id": "761611", "revid": "408438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761611", "title": "Higham", "text": "Higham may refer to:"}
{"id": "761612", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761612", "title": "Alfred Nzo", "text": ""}
{"id": "761613", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761613", "title": "Alfred B. Nzo", "text": ""}
{"id": "761614", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761614", "title": "Leopold Graf von Daun", "text": ""}
{"id": "761615", "revid": "50806149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761615", "title": "Alfred Baphethuxolo Nzo", "text": "Alfred Baphethuxolo Nzo (19 June 1925 \u2013 13 January 2000) was a South African politician. He served as the longest-standing secretary-general of the African National Congress. He occupied this position (ANC) between 1969 and 1991. He was also the South African minister of foreign affairs from 1994 to 1999. He was also the first black health inspector in the country. The Alfred Nzo Award is now awarded to deserving health practitioners in South Africa.\nPolitical career.\nHe was sent off to the Eastern Cape to receive missionary education. After completing his matric, he enrolled for BSc degree at University of Fort Hare in 1945. At Fort Hare he joined the African National Congress (ANC) Youth League and became actively involved in students politics. In his second year of study he left university and started work as health inspector at KwaDukathole in Germiston and was later transferred to the Alexandra health and community centre in 1951.\nAs health inspector, Nzo developed much understanding of the lives of millions of South Africans in the 1950s. He got actively involved in the organising of the Defiance Campaign in 1952. He was also involved in the campaign to interview people about the kind of society in which they would like to live. It was this campaign that culminated in the Congress of the People in 1955, at which the Freedom Charter was adopted.\nIn 1956 Nzo was elected the chairperson of ANC branch in Alexandra. In 1957 he organised the Alexandra bus boycotts in which people walked nine miles from the township to the city (Johannesburg) and back every day for three months to protest the increase in fares. His involvement in political activities cost him his job. His expulsion from work meant that he also lost his residential permit to live in Alexandra. He was subsequently arrested several times and finally sentenced to five months' imprisonment for not having a residence permit. He served his sentence at Modderbee Prison, where his father once worked.\nIn 1958, Nzo was elected to the regional and national executive committees of the ANC. In 1962, he was placed under 24-hour house arrest and in June 1963 detained for a period of 238 days. The following year, Nzo went into exile and took up posts in various countries including Egypt, India, Zambia and Tanzania.\nIn 1969, Nzo was elected ANC Secretary-General at the Morogoro Conference in Tanzania, and re-elected to this position at the Kwabe Conference in 1985.\nOn 30 December 1979 he and Oliver Tambo met Tim Jenkin, Stephen Lee and Alex Moumbaris, ANC members and escapees from incarceration at Pretoria Central Prison as political prisoners. Their presence was officially announced by the ANC in early January and Tambo introduced them at a press conference on 2 January 1980.\nAfter the unbanning of the liberation movements in 1990, Nzo formed part of the ANC delegation that entered into deliberations with the National Party government. Nzo lost the position of Secretary-General to Cyril Ramaphosa at the ANC July 1991 National Conference held in South Africa for the first time after the unbanning of the liberation movements. He was then elected deputy head of the ANC's security department.\nAfter the first democratic elections in 1994, Nzo was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs in the government of Nelson Mandela.\nAfter the 1999 national elections, Nzo retired from politics and in December of the same year he died of a stroke and he was survived by his wife Regina Nzo who died on 27 September 2011 at the ages of 81 years old. He was buried at the Westpark Cemetery in Johannesburg."}
{"id": "761616", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761616", "title": "Kino Makoto", "text": ""}
{"id": "761622", "revid": "25859633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761622", "title": "Shakesphere", "text": ""}
{"id": "761623", "revid": "26442336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761623", "title": "Elsecar railway station", "text": "Elsecar railway station is a railway station serving the village of Elsecar in South Yorkshire, England. It is on the Penistone Line and Hallam Line served by Northern Trains. The station was opened by the Midland Railway in July 1897 and was at one time known as Elsecar &amp; Hoyland.\nCCTV was recently installed for the purposes of crime prevention. Other improvements to the station include new signage, lighting, and the installation of passenger information display screens to provide real-time service information.\nA new 85-bay car park at the station was opened in November 2013 \u2013 funded by South Yorkshire PTE, this cost \u00a3500,000 and is located behind the northbound platform.\nFacilities.\nElsecar station is unstaffed and has no permanent buildings. Standard waiting shelters are provided on each side, along with a customer help point on platform 1. Train running information is offered via the display screens at the entrance to, and on the platforms and via timetable information posters. Step-free access is available to each platform via ramps, there are two ramps to the Northbound platform. There are bicycle storage facilities on both platforms.\nTicket machines were installed on each platform in 2018, however these are currently out of use as of May 2021 due to vandalism.\nService.\nOn weekdays and Saturdays by two trains per hour towards and two trains per hour to , one continuing to via and the other to via . The first northbound departure each day runs to Barnsley only, whilst the last northbound one terminates at Wakefield Kirkgate.\nOn Sundays, trains run every hour (approximately) to Sheffield and every two hours to Huddersfield and Leeds."}
{"id": "761626", "revid": "51946773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761626", "title": "Christopher O'Riley", "text": "Christopher O'Riley is an American classical pianist and public radio show host. He was the host of the weekly National Public Radio program \"From the Top\". O'Riley is also known for his piano arrangements of songs by alternative musicians.\nEarly life.\nO'Riley was born in 1956 in Chicago, Illinois, United States, and grew up in Evanston, Illinois. He began classical piano studies at the age of 4, and became interested in pop music and started his own band in 6th grade. His dual-track musical interests led him to jazz-rock fusion and included a professional performance in his later high school years with the Pittsburgh alto sax player Eric Kloss. His choice of music school was fortuitous as the New England Conservatory of Music had as its president in the 1970s the composer/historian Gunther Schuller. It was upon entering NEC that O'Riley decided to pursue classical studies exclusively.\nCareer.\nIn 1981, he won the Young Concert Artists International Auditions. He has received awards at the Leeds, Van Cliburn, Busoni and Montreal competitions, as well as an Avery Fisher Career Grant. O'Riley has made many recordings of classical music. His debut album, a collection of the works of Ferruccio Busoni, including the seldom performed \"Fantasia Contrappuntistica\", was released in 1983. He has since released several recordings, including works of Maurice Ravel, Sergei Rachmaninoff, Jean-Philippe Rameau, John Adams, Igor Stravinsky, and Alexander Scriabin, as well as a recording of \"Rhapsody in Blue\" with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra.\nO'Riley is the former host of the weekly National Public Radio program \"From the Top\", on which young musicians are heard and interviewed. According to its website, it is the most popular weekly one-hour classical music show on the air today. O'Riley first began performing Radiohead songs as a time-filler during a break in the program, to supplement preludes and miniatures by composers such as Debussy and Rachmaninoff. Many of those short classical pieces are found on his CD release \"At the Break\". Initially designed as a media platform for all manner of young musicians, From The Top soon became exclusively dedicated to Classical music, and it was in this atmosphere that O'Riley decided to augment the format by inserting, unannounced, his own arrangements, presumably Classical pieces, of Radiohead songs. When listeners were apprised of the title and provenance of the pieces, emails came into the show asking \"Who is this Mr. Head and where can I find more of his beautiful music?\"\n\"True Love Waits: Christopher O'Riley Plays Radiohead\", his recording of his own piano arrangements of songs by the alternative rock band Radiohead, was released in 2003. O'Riley's second Radiohead-derived album, \"Hold Me To This\", followed two years later and contains a different selection of songs. Both albums had moderate success on the classical crossover charts. In 2006, he released a piano tribute to Elliott Smith, \"Home to Oblivion\", again featuring his own arrangements.\nO'Riley says that his renditions have introduced the music of Radiohead to a classical audience as well as introducing classical music to a wider or younger audience, as he sometimes performs both standard concert repertoire, such as Shostakovich or Mozart, and Radiohead, Elliott Smith or Nick Drake interpretations at the same concert. O'Riley describes himself as an obsessed Radiohead fan in interviews, and says he was attracted to the multilayered nature of the band's music, leading him to listen to and transcribe lesser known album tracks, live bootleg recordings of performances, b-sides, and even songs never officially released, as well as some of their hit singles. In his liner notes for \"Home to Oblivion\", he calls Elliott Smith \"the most important songwriter since Cole Porter,\" although admitting he was unaware of Smith's music until his apparent suicide in 2003. When asked to explain his unusual choice of material for a classical pianist, O'Riley has often quoted Duke Ellington's statement that \"there are two kinds of music. Good music, and the other kind.\"\nO'Riley's work has often been distinguished from other classical rock-tribute albums by music critics, who note O'Riley's quality of playing. \"True Love Waits\" received 4 out of 5 stars from Rolling Stone magazine, allegedly the only \"classical\" recording to do so, while his Radiohead concert programs have received generally favorable notices from classical critics and promotion on NPR's \"Performance Today\".\nPersonal life.\nO'Riley currently resides in Los Angeles, California. His son, Conor Redmond O'Riley, was born on June 30, 1994, to Chris and his then wife, Marlene Fusaris."}
{"id": "761628", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761628", "title": "Ballets", "text": ""}
{"id": "761629", "revid": "1298728069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761629", "title": "Bob Crompton", "text": "Robert Crompton (26 September 1879 \u2013 15 March 1941) was an English professional footballer. He spent the entirety of his career with his hometown club, Blackburn Rovers. He also represented England on 41 occasions, captaining them 22 times.\nPlaying career.\nBorn in Blackburn, Crompton spent his entire career at full-back for Blackburn Rovers, playing 528 games between 1896 and 1920. He won the league twice as captain of the team in 1912 and 1914. In the 1915\u201316 season he played for Blackpool in the regional leagues set up by the Football League during World War I where he was made club captain. His 41 England caps were a record until surpassed by Billy Wright in 1952. He began his career as a centre-half, but it was at full-back that he excelled, Charlie Buchan describing him as \"...the outstanding full-back of his time. A commanding personality, he was the best kicker of a ball I ever ran across.\"\nManagerial career.\nCrompton later went on to manage Blackburn between 1926 and 1930, leading them to the FA Cup victory over Huddersfield Town in 1928. After a spell managing Bournemouth &amp; Boscombe Athletic, Crompton returned to Rovers as manager in the late 1930s to guide them to the Second Division championship.\nCrompton had a heart attack in 1941 while watching Blackburn play Burnley, while he was still in charge of Blackburn. His team had just won the match 3\u20132. He died that evening.\nAfter retirement and legacy.\nCrompton was in partnership with his Blackburn Rovers teammate, the Welsh international centre-forward William Davies, as motor engineers.\nIt was announced on 25 February 2015 via Twitter that Bob Crompton would be inducted to the Hall of Fame by the National Football Museum as a 'Historic Player'.\nCrompton became the first player (and manager) to be entered into the Blackburn Rovers Football Club Hall of Fame on 8 February 2019.\nHonours.\nAs a player.\nBlackburn Rovers\nAs a manager.\nBlackburn Rovers"}
{"id": "761630", "revid": "25859633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761630", "title": "Shakespire", "text": ""}
{"id": "761631", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761631", "title": "Battle of Megiddo (609 BCE)", "text": ""}
{"id": "761634", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761634", "title": "Megaman Legends", "text": ""}
{"id": "761637", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761637", "title": "Ustica Island", "text": ""}
{"id": "761644", "revid": "36767729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761644", "title": "CUSS I", "text": ""}
{"id": "761645", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761645", "title": "Go Life and death", "text": ""}
{"id": "761647", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761647", "title": "Go joseki", "text": ""}
{"id": "761650", "revid": "104210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761650", "title": "Battle of Megiddo (1469 BC)", "text": ""}
{"id": "761652", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761652", "title": "Edgar Nye", "text": ""}
{"id": "761653", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761653", "title": "Edgar W. Nye", "text": ""}
{"id": "761654", "revid": "44492479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761654", "title": "Edgar Wilson Nye", "text": "Edgar Wilson \"Bill\" Nye (August 25, 1850February 22, 1896) was an American humorist. He was also the founder and editor of the \"Laramie Boomerang\".\nBiography.\nNye was born in Shirley, Maine. His parents removed to a farm on the St. Croix river in northern Wisconsin in 1852, and he was educated at River Falls, Wisconsin, where he studied law. He moved to Wyoming Territory, and was admitted to the bar at Laramie City, Wyoming Territory in 1876. There he served as justice of the peace, superintendent of schools, member of the city council and postmaster. He began early to contribute humorous sketches to the newspapers, using the pen name of \"Bill Nye\" after a character in a famous poem by Bret Harte popularly known as \"The Heathen Chinee\". He was connected with various western journals, and afterward settled in New York City.\nThe \"Boomerang\" was founded while Nye was the postmaster of Laramie. It launched him to national fame, gaining subscribers in every state and some foreign countries. In 1892, he wrote in \"The Century Magazine\":\nSome of his works include \"Bill Nye's Comic History of the United States\", \"Baled Hay\", \"Remarks\", \"Bill Nye and Boomerang\", \"Bill Nye's History of England\", and \"Bill Nye's Red Book\". He is credited with the remark \"Wagner's music is better than it sounds.\".\nLate in his career, he was briefly associated with James Whitcomb Riley with whom he wrote two books. They also appeared together on the lecture circuit. He also traveled and lectured with Luther Burbank.\nHe passed the later years of his life in Arden, North Carolina where he died of meningitis, and was buried in Calvary Episcopal Churchyard in Fletcher, Henderson County, North Carolina. A historical marker honoring him is located in St. Croix County, Wisconsin, between the towns of Roberts and River Falls, and a second is located in Fletcher, North Carolina. A small monument marks his birthplace in Shirley, Maine."}
{"id": "761655", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761655", "title": "Aino Minako", "text": ""}
{"id": "761658", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761658", "title": "Johan Nydgaardsyold", "text": ""}
{"id": "761659", "revid": "4145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761659", "title": "Wallace Nutting", "text": "Wallace Nutting (November 17, 1861 \u2013 July 19, 1941) was an American minister, photographer, artist, and antiquarian, who is most famous for his landscape photos of New England. He also was an accomplished author, lecturer, furniture maker, antiques expert and collector. His atmospheric photographs helped spur the Colonial Revival style.\nEarly life.\nHe was born in Rock Bottom, Massachusetts (a village straddling Stow and Hudson), on Sunday, November 17, 1861, the second child of Albion and Elizabeth Nutting. His father was killed in the Civil War.\nThe family was descended from John Nutting, who came from England in 1639 and was killed by Indians during a raid against Groton, Massachusetts. The Indians severed John Nutting's head and put it on a pole to discourage others from settling in the area.\nEducation and personal life.\nWallace Nutting graduated from high school in Augusta, Maine. He studied at Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard University, Hartford Theological Seminary and Union Theological Seminary. He graduated from Harvard with the class of 1887. Nutting earned a Doctor of Divinity degree from Whitman College in 1893. He received an honorary doctor of Humanities from Washington &amp; Jefferson College in 1938.\nOn June 5, 1888 he married Mariet Griswold in Buckland, Massachusetts. They had no children.\nNutting began his career as a Congregational minister in several towns including Minneapolis, Seattle, and Providence and Fryeburg, Maine, but he was forced to retire at age 43 because of poor health. He suffered from neurasthenia, and turned to bicycling as a means of relaxation and improving his health.\nWhile in Providence, he read scripture at the funeral for Gorham Manufacturing Company Superintendent Charles Henry Baker at the Central Congregational Church.\nWork.\nPhotography.\nIt was on these bicycle rides in the countryside that Nutting started taking photographs. In 1904 he opened the Wallace Nutting Art Prints Studio on East 23rd Street in New York. After a year he moved his business to a farm in Southbury, Connecticut. He called this place \"Nuttinghame\". In 1912 he moved the photography studio to Framingham, Massachusetts, in a home he called \"Nuttingholme\". That year he published a catalog of prints that was 97 pages and included about 900 images. By 1915, Nutting claimed to be earning $1,000 per day.\nNutting's photographs ranged in subject and price to suit a variety of tastes. His catalog included pastoral scenes such as views of abbeys, cathedrals, bridges, mountains, flowers, and winding roads. One of his most common themes was \"Colonials\", which were photos of women in traditional 18th-Century roles. These were traditional pictures of femininity, usually pictured indoors in front of a chest, chair, or looking glass. His prints sold from $1.25 to $20.\nNutting authored several books about the scenic beauties of New England, the United Kingdom, and Ireland. In the peak of his business he employed about two-hundred colorists. By his own account, Wallace Nutting sold ten million pictures. Wallace Nutting's colorists painted the photographs which he took. These colorists would sometimes sign Wallace Nutting's name on the photos which is why the signatures vary.\nFurniture.\nNutting had a collection of furniture which he used as props in his \"Colonial\" photography. This experience led him to start a business manufacturing and selling reproduction furniture. His expertise in this field led him to author a guidebook to American Windsor furniture in 1917. By 1918 his mail-order catalog offered dozens of Windsor chairs in several historic styles.\nDeath and legacy.\nWallace Nutting died at his home at 24 Vernon St., Framingham, Massachusetts on Saturday, July 19, 1941, at age 79. His body was transported to Augusta, Maine for burial.\nNutting's residence in Portsmouth, New Hampshire is also known as the Wentworth-Gardner House. A Wallace Nutting Society exists for the study of his work.\nToday, Nutting's furniture and photographs are widely collected.\nSee also.\nHouses owned and the subject of Nutting's preservation activities:"}
{"id": "761661", "revid": "1705832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761661", "title": "LeChuck", "text": ""}
{"id": "761662", "revid": "69007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761662", "title": "Aloha Islandair", "text": ""}
{"id": "761664", "revid": "42909019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761664", "title": "Santa Margarita River", "text": "The Santa Margarita River which with the addition of what is now Temecula Creek, was formerly known as the Temecula River, is a short intermittent river on the Pacific coast of Southern California in the United States, approximately long. One of the last free-flowing rivers in Southern California, it drains an arid region at the southern end of the Santa Ana Mountains, in the Peninsular Ranges between Los Angeles and San Diego.\nHistory.\nThe Portol\u00e0 expedition camped on the river on July 20, 1769 and named it for Saint Margaret of Antioch. A Santa Margarita rancheria is mentioned in 1795 and there is a February 23, 1836 land grant called Santa Margarita y San Onofre (later renamed Rancho Santa Margarita y Las Flores).\nIn 1881 the California Southern Railroad followed the route of the river. When the route was completed, it had 241 bridges crossing the river. While it was operating, Chinese Americans worked on the railroad. The route along the river was abandoned in 1891.\nIn the early 20th century, following a lawsuit against Vail Ranch in Temecula, water was guaranteed for the river to continue to flow. During much of the 20th century, and into the early 21st century, the river was the subject of a long-running water rights battle between the United States Navy and the Fallbrook Public Utility District. In August 2018, the Fallbrook Public Utility District sold its land on the river, ending its over 60-year plan to place a hydroelectric dam on the river; it will be preserved by the Wildlands Conservancy as the Santa Margarita River Trail Preserve, which utilized funds from bonds authorized by Proposition 68 to purchase the land.\nWatershed and course.\nThe mainstem of the Santa Margarita River begins at the confluence of Temecula Creek and Murrieta Creek, in southwestern Riverside County, east of Interstate 15, southeast of Temecula. The river is formed when the two creeks merge. It flows southwest through the Temecula Canyon at the south end of the Santa Ana Mountains. Along its lower the river forms a large floodplain as it crosses Camp Pendleton Marine Corps Base. It enters the Gulf of Santa Catalina on the Pacific approximately northwest of Oceanside.\nDraining , the Santa Margarita Watershed is the second largest river basin on the Southern California coastal plain. The upper watershed consists of the Murrieta Creek subwatershed and the Temecula Creek subwatershed. Although there are two dams in the upper watershed, both dams must release water that roughly corresponds to natural flows in the tributaries that they are on. As a result, the flow of water in the Santa Margarita River is very close to what it would be in the absence of those two dams.\nBelow the confluence of Murrieta and Temecula Creeks, the primary tributaries of the Santa Margarita River mainstem are Rainbow Creek on the left (headingdownstream) and Sandia Creek and De Luz Creeks on the right. The two latter creeks drain the Santa Rosa Plateau.\nConservation and ecology.\nApproximately of the middle course of the Santa Margarita River in Temecula Canyon are managed by San Diego State University as the Santa Margarita Ecological Reserve, a collaboration of the Bureau of Land Management, California Department of Fish and Wildlife and The Nature Conservancy. The Nature Conservancy has identified and continues to acquire land along the river for conservation. Downstream from the Ecological Preserve the river flows through The Wildlands Conservancy Santa Margarita River Trail Preserve, and empties into the Ocean through the largely undisturbed lands of Camp Pendleton. Thus the mainstem flows through undeveloped, protected lands. The river has unusual habitats with the upper mainstem one of the few remaining natural gorge rivers in Southern California and the lower mainstem has expansive riparian strips, some up to across.\nApproximately 70 species of special concern (rare, threatened, or endangered) regularly inhabit the watershed, including 30 that are currently protected under the Endangered Species Act. Two federally endangered riparian birds are the least Bell's vireo (\"Vireo bellii pusillus\") and the southwestern willow flycatcher (\"Emmpidonax traillii extimus\")), both of which require riparian habitat for breeding success.\nMajor fishes in the Santa Margarita River include the rainbow trout (\"Oncorhynchus mykiss\"), arroyo chub (\"Gila orcuttii\"), California killifish (\"Fundulus parvipinnis\"), striped mullet, longjaw mudsucker, staghorn sculpin. Pacific lamprey (\"Entosphenus tridentatus\") recolonized the river in August 2019 for the first time since 1940, the furthest south the species has currently recolonized, south of the previous location in San Luis Obispo which recolonized in 2017. The successful recolonization has been attributed to a rebuilt weir and new fishway at Camp Pendleton which allowed the lamprey to find passage into the river. Aquatic and semi-aquatic mammals include California golden beaver (\"Castor canadensis subauratus\"), muskrat, raccoon and long-tailed weasel. Contemporary beaver populations survive at the headwaters of the Santa Margarita River at the confluence of Temecula Creek and Murrieta Creek.\nMajor riparian plants include arroyo, black, narrowleaf, Pacific, and red willow (\"Salix spp\"); California sycamore (\"Platanus racemosa\"), Fremont cottonwood (\"Populus fremontii\"), mulefat (\"Baccharis salicifolia\") and White alder (\"Alnus rhombifolia\")."}
{"id": "761665", "revid": "51552405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761665", "title": "Friedrich Heinrich von Seckendorff", "text": "Friedrich Heinrich Reichsgraf von Seckendorff (5 July 1673 \u2013 23 November 1763, aged 90) was a Franconian field marshal and diplomat, in the service of the imperial Habsburg monarchy of Austria. Later he served as commander of the Bavarian army and fought Austria.\nFamily.\nSeckendorff was born in K\u00f6nigsberg, Franconia, into the Seckendorff family of nobility. His father was an official of Saxe-Gotha and his nephew was Veit Ludwig von Seckendorff. He studied law in Jena, Leipzig, and Leyden.\nEarly military career.\nIn 1693, Seckendorff served in the allied army commanded by William III of England, and in 1694 became a cornet in a Gotha cavalry regiment in Austrian pay. \nLeaving the cavalry, he became an infantry officer in the service of Venice, and in 1697 in that of the Margrave of Ansbach, who in 1698 transferred the regiment in which Seckendorff was serving to the Imperial army.\nHe served under Prince Eugene of Savoy in the Great Turkish War.\nIn 1699, Seckendorff married and returned to Ansbach as a court officer, but the outbreak of the War of the Spanish Succession called him into the field again as lieutenant-colonel of an Ansbach regiment, which was taken into the Dutch service. During the War of the Spanish Succession, Seckendorff led Ansbach's regiment and, at the head of his dragoons, conquered 16 standards in the Battle of Blenheim. Promoted to \"Oberst\", Seckendorff participated in the battles of Ramillies and Oudenaarde and the siege of Ryssel.\nDisappointed with his lack of promotion in the Netherlands and Austria, Seckendorff entered the service of King Augustus II of Poland as a \"Generalmajor\" and commanded the king's auxiliary Saxon troops in Flanders, fighting in the siege of Tournai and the battle of Malplaquet. \nAs the Polish envoy to the Hague, he participated in the negotiations of the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht; in the same year he suppressed an insurrection in Poland. As a lieutenant general, Seckendorff commanded Saxon troops in the 1715 siege of Stralsund against King Charles XII of Sweden.\nSeckendorff reentered imperial service as a \"Feldmarschallleutnant\" in 1717. Under the command of Eugene of Savoy, Seckendorff led two Ansbach regiments against the Ottoman Turks at Belgrade. In 1718 he successfully fought against Spain in Sicily. Granted the title of \"Reichsgraf\" in 1719, Seckendorff was appointed \"Feldzeugmeister\" two years later.\nDiplomacy.\nIn 1726, at the instance of Eugene of Savoy, Seckendorff became the imperial ambassador at the Prussian court in Berlin. \nHe gained the trust of King Frederick William I of Prussia; king and diplomat had fought alongside one another in the War of the Spanish Succession. Seckendorff also bribed the minister of state, the influential Friedrich Wilhelm von Grumbkow, with an Austrian pension. \nIn order to avoid a potential marriage between Crown Prince Frederick and a princess of the House of Hanover that would have allied Prussia and Great Britain, Seckendorff manipulated Frederick William and his son so that the crown prince instead married Elizabeth Christina of Brunswick-Bevern, a marriage more favorable to Austria.\nSeckendorff's diplomatic skill also led to recognition of the Pragmatic Sanction by the courts of numerous German principalities, Denmark, and the Dutch Republic.\nLater military career.\nIn 1734, Seckendorff returned to the imperial army and became Governor of Mainz. \nAs imperial general of cavalry during the War of the Polish Succession, he led 30,000 troops against the French at Clausen on 20 October 1735. \nIn 1737, Emperor Charles VI made Seckendorff commander-in-chief in Hungary, at the same time giving him the baton of \"Feldmarschall\". \nAlthough initially successful in the Austrian-Russian campaign against the Ottomans, he was eventually forced to retreat across the Save River. \nHis numerous enemies in Vienna brought about his recall, trial and imprisonment at Graz as punishment for the unsuccessful war.\nEmpress Maria Theresa released Seckendorff from prison in 1740, but, denied his arrears of pay, he laid down all his Austrian and imperial offices and accepted from the new Holy Roman emperor, Bavarian Charles VII, the rank of field marshal in the Bavarian service. As commander of the Bavarian army, Seckendorff relieved Munich in the War of the Austrian Succession and, by a series of battles in 1743 and 1744, forced the Austrians back into Bohemia, after which he resigned.\nFollowing the death of Charles VII, Seckendorff negotiated a reconciliation between Austria and Bavaria in the Treaty of F\u00fcssen on 22 April 1745. Emperor Francis I reaffirmed all of Seckendorff's honors, and the diplomat retired to his estate at Meuselwitz in Thuringia. In 1757 the death of his wife, for whom, harsh and unamiable as he was, he had a deep and abiding affection, broke down his already failing health. Frederick the Great directed Prussian hussars to abduct Seckendorff from Meuselwitz in December 1758 during the Seven Years' War. After spending half a year in detention in Magdeburg, he was exchanged for Moritz of Anhalt-Dessau, who had been captured by Austrians at Hochkirch. Returning to Meuselwitz, Seckendorff died at his estate in 1763.\nQuotes.\nFrederick the Great despised Seckendorff, resenting the military diplomat for gaining the trust of Frederick William I and his involvement in the Prussian wedding plans. Regarding Seckendorff, Frederick wrote, \"He was sordidly scheming; his manners were crude and rustic; lying had become so much second nature to him that he had lost the use of the truth. He was a usurer who sometimes appeared in the guise of a soldier, and sometimes in that of a diplomat\".\nNotes.\nAttribution:"}
{"id": "761666", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761666", "title": "Deep sea drilling program", "text": ""}
{"id": "761667", "revid": "39405234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761667", "title": "Elaine Marley", "text": "Elaine Marley (from \"Escape From Monkey Island\" onward called Elaine Marley-Threepwood) is a character in the \"Monkey Island\" series of graphic adventure video games. Created by Ron Gilbert for LucasArts, the character first appears in \"The Secret of Monkey Island\" and is one of the core characters in the franchise. Originally conceived as a ruthless island governor, the character evolved during development into the protagonist's love interest. While the first two games in the series did not feature voice acting, Elaine was voiced by Alexandra Boyd in \"The Curse of Monkey Island\" and by Charity James in \"Escape from Monkey Island\"; Boyd would reprise the role for later entries in the franchise.\nElaine is the governor of the Tri-Island Area, a fictional group of pirate islands in the Caribbean. She is loved by the undead pirate LeChuck, but instead falls in love with hapless protagonist Guybrush Threepwood. She eventually marries Guybrush and relinquishes her gubernatorial responsibilities to her grandfather.\nThe character has enjoyed positive critical reception. Several sources commended Elaine's aberration of the damsel in distress stereotype. Elaine has been ranked on a number of lists regarding the best female characters in the video game industry, and has received praise for her visual design and resilient personality. Critics have also complimented Boyd's and James' voice acting for the character in the later installments of the series, though some expressed disappointment at the character's reduced lines in \"The Curse of Monkey Island\".\nCharacter design.\nThe original script for \"The Secret of Monkey Island\" called for a character simply named \"the Governor\"; \"Monkey Island\" creator Ron Gilbert had envisioned her as a far more ruthless character. The name \"Elaine\" was created later in development by Dave Grossman, who wrote the final scenes of the game in which protagonist Guybrush Threepwood disrupts the wedding of antagonist LeChuck and the governor. One of Grossman's options for gatecrashing the wedding is having Guybrush scream \"Elaine!\" in a parody of a similar scene in the 1967 film \"The Graduate\"; Gilbert appreciated the reference, so Elaine was adopted as the governor's name. As development on the game further progressed, the character evolved from being a ruthless governor to the player character's love interest. When the player talks to a number of characters in \"The Secret of Monkey Island\", a close-up portrait of the character is shown. Elaine's appearance in this portrait was based on Avril Harrison, an artist working at LucasArts. Gilbert always felt bothered by these close-up portraits, stating that \"while they were great art, I never felt they matched the style of the rest of the game\".\nIn \"The Curse of Monkey Island\", Elaine realises that Guybrush is her true love, and marries him. However, Ron Gilbert did not intend for the relationship between the characters to develop in this way, stating that Elaine \"never really liked Guybrush and thought of him as more of a little brother\". Gilbert was not involved in the production of \"The Curse of Monkey Island\"; while thinking that the new development team \"did a pretty good job of capturing what \"Monkey Island\" was about\", the relationship between Elaine and Guybrush \"was the thing that bugged [Gilbert] the most about \"The Curse of Monkey Island\"\".\n\"The Curse of Monkey Island\" was the first \"Monkey Island\" game to feature voice acting; in it, the part of Elaine Marley was given to British actress Alexandra Boyd. Boyd explains that she got the part of Elaine as she had worked with voice director Darragh O'Farrell previously; O'Farrell brought Boyd in to read for the part. Boyd joked that \"I figured I got the part because I have red hair like her\". Boyd was not contacted to return as the character for \"Escape from Monkey Island\"; Elaine was instead voiced by American actress Charity James. Nevertheless, Boyd reprised the role for Telltale Games' \"Tales of Monkey Island\" and the later enhanced remakes of the first two games. Boyd was glad to return, stating that the character \"is very well written and it\u2019s fun doing all that shouting at LeChuck and Guybrush! Exhausting but fun\". The development of Elaine's character was one of Gilbert's aims for \"Tales of Monkey Island\"; Gilbert wanted Elaine to \"be better informed and more capable than most of the other characters\". In \"Return to Monkey Island\", Ron Gilbert told \"Eurogamer\" that \"We actually had a very, very early incarnation of the game where their relationship was a little bit on rocky ground... they weren't divorced, but they were definitely not getting along. But when we did our first play test, man, people hated that! They absolutely hated that\".\nAttributes and depiction.\nElaine is depicted with red hair and green eyes. She wears a variety of pirate clothing consistent with the game's Golden Age of Piracy setting. Her appearances in \"The Secret of Monkey Island\" and \"\" are in the form of pixel art, with appearances slightly differing between the EGA, Amiga and VGA versions of the games. By \"The Curse of Monkey Island\", Elaine is rendered in a cartoon art style by LucasArts artists Larry Ahern and Bill Tiller, although the character's choice of clothing remains consistent.\nAppearances.\nElaine Marley debuts in \"The Secret of Monkey Island\" as the governor of M\u00eal\u00e9e Island, on which protagonist Guybrush Threepwood is striving to become a pirate. As governor, she attracts many suitors, one of these being the pirate captain LeChuck. LeChuck's ambitions for Elaine's hand in marriage form a major part of the franchise's plot.\nElaine's role is significantly reduced for the sequel \"\", though the majority of the story is conveyed by Guybrush to Elaine in the form of a flashback. Between the games, the two have broken off their relationship and Elaine has moved to her governor's mansion on Booty Island. When Guybrush appears at the mansion, she presumes he has come to apologize; instead he is looking for a map that belonged to Elaine's grandfather. After discovering Guybrush's intentions, Elaine is infuriated and refuses to speak to him.\nIn \"The Curse of Monkey Island\", LeChuck's efforts to buy Elaine's love are again rebuked by Elaine, who is angry at LeChuck for having apparently killed Guybrush, who she realises is the true love of her life. Guybrush attempts to propose to her, but accidentally gives her a cursed ring that turns her to solid gold. Guybrush eventually removes the curse, and the two marry and leave on their honeymoon.\nElaine and Guybrush return to M\u00eal\u00e9e Island in \"Escape from Monkey Island\" from their lengthy honeymoon to find that she has been declared legally dead; as a result, the governorship of the Tri-Island Area is up for election. Elaine and Guybrush must reverse her legal demise.\nIn \"Tales of Monkey Island\", Elaine is once again kidnapped by LeChuck. While events separate Guybrush and Elaine, she befriends the now seemingly unmalicious LeChuck, and helps him return monkeys used for his voodoo spells to their homes. Elaine also attempts, without success, to arbitrate between merpeople with access to a cure for the pox and infected pirates.\nIn \"Return to Monkey Island\", Elaine heads up an anti-scurvy initiative and shadows Guybrush through the game as witness to his misadventures. In the game's frame story, an older Elaine visits a theme park with Guybrush and their son, Boybrush.\nOutside the \"Monkey Island\" series, Elaine appears in \"Sea of Thieves\" as part of the expansion \"The Legend of Monkey Island\". Set between \"Curse\" and \"Escape\", LeChuck intercepts Guybrush and Elaine during their honeymoon and traps them in a dreamworld. Aware of the deception, Elaine departs on her own to find a way to free them.\nReception.\nThe character of Elaine Marley has garnered a positive reception from critics within the video game industry. Described by \"GameSpot\" as the impetus for the whole series, critics lauded Elaine's non-conformity to the damsel in distress stereotype. \"GameSpot\" noted that Elaine is usually much more proficient at escaping trouble \"than the so-called hero who comes to save her\", while the video game culture journal \"Eludamos\" approved of the character for allowing a level of \"feminine expression which did not necessary always conform to passive ideals of the damsel in distress\".\nIn \"100 Greatest Video Game Characters\", Elaine is cited as more important than Guybrush due to her pivotal role in the depiction of women in video games. The book highlighted her political power and gender-neutral attire as rare, and mentioned that she subverts the idea of the love interest in video games by being more successful and level-headed than the protagonist, while having her own ambitions. As such, she was compared to Alyx Vance from the \"Half-Life\" series and Grace Nakamura from \"Gabriel Knight\", amongst others.\n\"IGN India\", \"The Guardian\", and \"GamesRadar+\" all stated that Elaine and Guybrush were one of the best video game couples, \"Eurogamer\" commended Elaine's design as \"worthy of acclaim\", naming her the \"Best Female Supporting Character\" in their 2001 annual Gaming Globes awards, while \"IGN\" described her alongside Guybrush and LeChuck as one of \"the most beloved adventure characters of all time\". Alexandra Boyd and Charity James too have been praised for their voicing of Elaine; \"Computer Games Magazine\" described Boyd's work for \"The Curse of Monkey Island\" as \"wonderful\", though lamented that she did not speak more in the game, while \"Macworld\" admired the character's depiction in \"Escape from Monkey Island\" as \"beautiful and plucky\". \"TheGamer\" lamented Elaine's perceived tonal shift in \"Return to Monkey Island\", saying that she was \"Elaine in name and appearance only\", and had been \"demoted\" to a background role."}
{"id": "761668", "revid": "1461430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761668", "title": "Ocean Drilling Program", "text": "The Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) was part of an international project to explore and study the composition and structure of Earth's oceanic basins. This collaborative effort spanned multiple decades and produced comprehensive data that improved understanding of oceanic processes and advanced several fields in Earth science.\nOcean Drilling History.\nOcean drilling first began with Project Mohole, a United States effort to drill into Earth's crust in 1957. At the time, there was little scientific understanding about oceanic and geologic processes, such as a lack of knowledge of plate tectonics. While this project was brief due to a lack of funding, it gave insights into these processes and sparked public interest in ocean drilling and its associated discoveries.\nFollowing this preliminary project, several countries came together to contribute to a series of three ocean drilling projects that took place over forty years.\nFirst was the Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP), which took place from 1968-1983. This project was driven by the Joint Oceanographic Institutions for Deep Earth Sampling (JOIDES), a partnership of United States research institutions and universities, which included Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, the Institute for Marine Sciences at the University of Miami, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. The DSDP was an exploratory project that utilized certain technological advances, such as the hydraulic piston corer, and led to further hypotheses about oceanic processes.\nThe ODP immediately followed the DSDP from 1984-2003.\nThe final program was the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP), which was completed in 2013. These projects were an international effort, including Australia, Canada, Germany, France, Japan, and the United Kingdom. 12 additional countries formed the European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling (ECORD), which was created to support the IODP.\nODP Operations.\nCompared to the DSDP, the ODP was a more driven and organized program. The institutions heading the ODP planned to upgrade ocean drilling technology and expand operations. Drilling operations for the ODP were carried out by Texas A&amp;M University, and downhole logging was performed by Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University. The majority of the funding for the program came from the National Science Foundation, while about one-third was from international collaborators.\nTechnology.\nThe \"JOIDES Resolution\".\nGiven the ambitions of the ODP to increase the scope of ocean drilling, the program needed a vessel with more advanced drilling technology and laboratories than the \"Glomar Challenger,\" the ship used for the DSDP. The Sedco/BP 471 drillship was selected for the program and upgraded with more advanced drilling technology. Originally built in Nova Scotia in 1978, the ship was owned by both Sedco Forex and the British Petroleum Corporation (BP).\nUpgrades to the ship allowed for deeper drilling, more sophisticated laboratory analysis, and the ability to withstand more difficult environments. The drill string installed onboard was capable of reaching 30,000 feet with a minimum yield strength of 140,000 pounds per square inch. The ship had enough power to support a residential community of 14,000 people, which allowed for increased speed and drilling capabilities. Onboard laboratories had advanced scientific instrumentation and covered 145,000 square feet, which were the most modern floating geological laboratories at the time.\nCirculation Obviation Retrofit Kit (CORK).\nA specific technological advance that was implemented in the ODP was the CORK, which was used in 18 holes during ODP beginning in 1989. CORKs are a long-term hydrogeological monitoring system that sealed drilled holes and allowed for further observation. A CORK consisted of two parts: the body that sealed the system into the hole and the data log and sensor system. If drilled boreholes were left unsealed, the subsurface environment was disturbed and not able to be monitored in the future. Using CORKs to seal holes allowed environmental equilibrium to be reestablished, and observations provided understanding into hydrogeological processes in the subsurface.\nScientific Accomplishments.\nThe ODP and the other ocean drilling programs produced evidence that significantly improved understanding of oceanic process, spanning geochemistry, biology, and other associated Earth science fields.\nEarth Processes.\nEvidence from the ODP has led to better understanding of overall Earth processes. Most importantly, previous theories of seafloor spreading were confirmed. Additionally, scientists gained insights into the oceanic lithosphere, including its structure and composition as well as its formation. The ODP provided evidence that lithospheric composition varies depending on proximity to nearby seafloor spreading. Additionally, geological evidence from these expeditions provided a more detailed understanding of Earth's climate and ocean history, advancing the fields of paleoceanography and paleoclimatology.\nGeomagnetism.\nEarth's magnetic field is generated by convection in the fluid outer core. In the past, this magnetic field has experienced reversals, in which the North and South Poles flip. Evidence of these reversals is contained in sediments, and samples from the ODP led to more precise geologic time scales.\nGas Hydrates.\nIn certain subsurface environments with high pressure and low temperature, some gases, such as methane and carbon dioxide, can bond with water, forming ice-like substances. The ODP's Leg 164 at Blake Ridge was the first site to focus on gas hydrates. Recovery of gas hydrate sediments was difficult, due to the specific conditions in which they form, which led to the loss of material during the recovery process. New technology was used to obtain in situ data without having to extract the gas hydrates. Prior to the ODP, scientists had vague estimates of amounts and locations of gas hydrate formations. Data from the program increased certainty and provided more concrete evidence of the distribution of gas hydrates.\nHydrothermal Vents.\nAs cold seawater enters the ocean crust at a hydrothermal vent, it is heated by subsurface magma and erupts from the vent. This process is driven by water-rock reactions beneath the ocean floor, so evidence from the ODP has led to better understanding of these reactions. This is essential to understanding overall marine chemistry and interactions between the ocean and Earth's crust.\nBiological Processes.\nPrior to the ODP, there was little definitive evidence confirming whether or not bacterial populations exist in subseafloor sediments. 14 sites of the ODP focused specifically on studying bacteria, and the program's technology was able to collect core samples that were undisturbed and not contaminated to accurately examine bacterial populations and their activities.\nPresence and Activities of Bacterial Populations.\nEvidence from the ODP contradicted expectations that biological activity is more heavily concentrated near Earth's surface. Large populations were discovered, which added around 10% to global biomass estimates. The abundance of bacterial populations decreased with depth, and deeper bacteria had slower growth rates. Despite this overall trend, there were certain geochemical conditions and thermogenic processes that allowed bacterial populations to thrive at depth. For example, near gas hydrate deposits, rates of methane oxidation increased due to the abundance of organic carbon present. Additionally, the rates of methanogenesis and acetate metabolism increased in bacteria in the subsurface compared to those near the surface.\nBacterial Motility.\nAnother biological process that was examined was the motility of these bacterial populations. Scientists hoped to better understand if bacteria were trapped in deposited sediments or able to move freely throughout the subsurface. Evidence from the ODP showed that bacteria closer to the surface were motile, while those in deeper sediments were unable to keep up with sedimentation deposit rates and became buried."}
{"id": "761669", "revid": "10857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761669", "title": "Norma Jean Speranza", "text": ""}
{"id": "761671", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761671", "title": "Honeywell SouthYorkshire", "text": ""}
{"id": "761674", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761674", "title": "Carlton SouthYorkshire", "text": ""}
{"id": "761675", "revid": "32010320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761675", "title": "The London Encyclopaedia", "text": "The London Encyclopaedia, first published in 1983, is a 1,100-page historical reference work on London, the capital city of the United Kingdom, covering the whole of the Greater London area.\nDevelopment.\nThe first edition of the encyclopaedia was compiled over a number of years by the antiquarian bookseller Ben Weinreb and the historian Christopher Hibbert. Revised editions were published in 1993, 1995 and 2008. It has around 5,000 articles, supported by two indices, one general and one listing people, each with about 10,000 entries, and is published by Macmillan.\nIn 2012, an app was developed by Heuristic-Media and released as \"London\u2014A City Through Time\". Toby Evetts and Simon Reeves, partners in Heuristic-Media, discussed the development of the app with \"The Guardian\" in 2013, describing how 4,500 entries had to be plotted onto a guide map by hand.\nAntecedents.\nThe encyclopaedia builds on a number of earlier publications, including:"}
{"id": "761677", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761677", "title": "Tim Liardet", "text": "Tim Liardet is a poet twice nominated for the T. S. Eliot Prize, a critic, and Professor of Poetry at Bath Spa University.\nHe was born in London in 1949, and has produced eleven collections of poetry to date.\nBiography.\n\"Clay Hill\", his first collection, appeared in 1988. \"Fellini Beach\", his second collection, appeared in 1994. His third collection, \"Competing with the Piano Tuner\", was a Poetry Book Society Special Commendation and longlisted for the Whitbread Poetry Prize in 1998; his fourth, \"To the God of Rain\", a Poetry Book Society recommendation for Spring 2003. Liardet was awarded a Hawthornden Fellowship in 2002. He has reviewed poetry for such journals as \"The Guardian\", \"Poetry Review,\" and \"P. N. Review\" and was poet-in-residence at \"The Guardian\" in 2006. \"The Blood Choir\", his fifth collection, won an Arts Council England Writer's Award as a collection-in-progress in 2003, was a Poetry Book Society Recommendation for summer 2006, and was shortlisted for the 2006 T. S. Eliot Prize for the best collection of poetry for that year. \"Priest Skear\", a pamphlet that turns the drowning of the 23 Chinese cocklepickers in Morecambe Bay in 2004 into a political allegory, appeared in 2010 and was the Poetry Book Society Pamphlet Choice for Winter 2010. \"The Storm House\", his eighth collection, a book-length elegy for his brother who died young and in mysterious circumstances, appeared from Carcanet Press in June 2011. \"Madame Sasoo Goes Bathing\", a pamphlet, appeared in 2013. His \"The World Before Snow\", a study of a life-changing love affair between An American and an English poet who met during a record-breaking snowstorm in Boston, appeared from Carcanet Press in 2015 and was shortlisted for the T. S. Eliot Prize of the same year. \"Arcimboldo's Bulldog: New and Selected Poems\" appeared from the same publisher in 2018.\nLiardet has sat on various panels and delivered papers on contemporary poetry at the AWP Conference in New York City in 2008, in Chicago in 2009, in Washington, D.C. in 2011 and in Boston in 2013. He has also performed his own work widely: he has read at the Royal Festival Hall, on BBC Radio Three and BBC Radio Four, at the Ars Interpres Festival, Stockholm, in 2007, as visiting poet at the Internationales Literaturfestival Berlin in 2008, and has read extensively in America, including such venues as Cambridge Public Library in Boston, the Lannan Centre for Poetics and Social Practice at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. and the KGB Bar and Cornelia Street Cafe in New York City."}
{"id": "761678", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761678", "title": "J\u014dseki", "text": "In \"go\" and \"sh\u014dgi\", a j\u014dseki (\"kanji\" characters for go, for \"sh\u014dgi\") is the studied sequences of moves for which the result is considered \"balanced\" for both black and white sides.\n\"Go\" \"j\u014dseki\".\nIn \"go\", because games typically start with plays in the corners, \"go\" \"j\u014dseki\" are usually about corner play as the players try to gain local advantages there in order to obtain a better overall position. Though less common, there are also \"j\u014dseki\" for the middle game. In Japanese, \"j\u014d\" () means \"fixed\" or \"set\" and \"seki\" () means stones, giving the literal meaning \"set stones\", as in \"set pattern\". In Chinese, the term for joseki is \"d\u00ecngsh\u00ec\" ().\nThe concept of \"balance\", here, often refers to an equitable trade-off between securing territory in the corner versus making good \"thickness\" toward the sides and the center. In application, these concepts are very dynamic, and, often, deviations from a \"j\u014dseki\" depend upon the needs of the situation and the available opportunities. While learning \"j\u014dseki\" is a tool to defend against a local loss, players always seek to take advantage of weaknesses in the opponent's shapes, often deviating from the \"j\u014dseki\".\nUsing \"j\u014dseki\".\n\"J\u014dseki\" are not fixed but comprise patterns that have gained acceptance in professional games; they constitute a consensus that may change with certain caveats. Hence, the basic definition may be misleading for new players in that a \"j\u014dseki\" can be misconstrued as foolproof and unalterable and as optimal for all situations. Many \"j\u014dseki\" are in fact useful only for study within an artificially confined corner, and in real play are only considered good form when used in proper combination with other plays on the board (i.e. other \"j\u014dseki\" and \"fuseki\" moves). \nKnowing a particular \"j\u014dseki\" simply means that one knows a sequence of moves, resulting in a balance or fair trade-off between black and white positions. This is in practice much easier than appraising how \"j\u014dseki\" relate to the rest of the board\u00a0\u2013 hence, \"knowledge of j\u014dseki\" is regarded as shallow, when compared with the ability to integrate a strategy into a complex game landscape.\nOne go proverb states that \"learning \"j\u014dseki\" loses two stones in strength,\" which means that the rote learning of sequences is not advantageous; rather, learning \"from\" a \"j\u014dseki\" should be a player's goal. Hence, the study of \"j\u014dseki\" is regarded as a double-edged sword and useful only if learned by understanding the principles behind each move, instead of by rote. Every \"j\u014dseki\" should be used as a specific tool that leaves the board in a particular shape. \nJust as using an improper tool in machinery can be devastating, choosing the wrong \"j\u014dseki\" can easily be worse than improvising one's own moves. In his book \"A Way of Play for the 21st Century\", Go Seigen compared choosing the proper \"j\u014dseki\" to choosing the proper medicine: \"Pick the right one, and you feel better. Pick the wrong one, and you die.\" Rui Naiwei similarly remarked that \"playing \"joseki\" is easy [but] choosing the right one [in a game] is hard.\" [par.]\nA \"j\u014dseki\" may fall out of use for various reasons, some of which may often seem minor to the amateur player; professionals may consider one variation suboptimal for a very specific reason\u00a0\u2013 one which strong amateurs are not likely to exploit. \nThere is no definitive guide to what is a \"j\u014dseki\"; the situation with \"j\u014dseki\" dictionaries is similar to that of natural language dictionaries: some entries are obsolete, and the list is likely to be incomplete.\nBasic \"j\u014dseki\".\nCorner \"j\u014dseki\" conventionally start with one player occupying a corner point, in an empty 19\u00d719 area of the board, and the other player replying with an \"approach move\" (Japanese: \"kakari\"). The initial play in the corner is almost always on a 3-3, 3-4, 3-5, 4-4 or 4-5 point. Other plays that have been experimented with include 5-5, 6-3 and 6-4, all of which sacrifice territory for influence.\nOf those plays, the classical 3-4 point (\"komoku\") and more contemporary 4-4 point (\"hoshi\") are the most used. The standard approaches are at 5-3 or 5-4 to the 3-4 point, and at 3-6/6-3 to the 4-4 point. The number of subsequent variations is then quite large (of the order of ten reasonable plays for the next one). Recently, some 3-3 invasion josekis became popular after it was used successfully by the AlphaGo series of models, such as the . \nBreaking away from a sequence to play elsewhere (\"tenuki\") before the conventional endpoint of the \"j\u014dseki\" is not uncommon in higher level play. There is no formal theory for follow-up plays after \"j\u014dseki\", though numerous set sequences can be seen in professional play.\nIt is imperative that players should not play a \"j\u014dseki\" merely from rote memorization but adapt according to the overall board situation. It is important to keep in mind that go is a game involving marginal analysis and \"j\u014dseki\" are merely heuristics of sound play. Playing \"j\u014dseki\" blindly will not improve one's game.\n\"J\u014dseki\" in shogi.\nIn shogi, typically the beginning of the games (\u5e8f\u76e4 \"joban\") consists of a number of relatively fixed series of moves for both players\".\" This standard sequence of moves or a j\u014dseki (spelled \u5b9a\u8de1, unlike in \"go\" where they are spelled ) refers to especially recommended sequences of moves for a given opening that lead to a balanced play for both sides. These sequences of moves are considered to be the best for a particular opening from the start of the game to the start of a full-scale battle, and are often recommended to amateur players to be able to master basic strategy. J\u014dsekis are typically developed by professional players as a result of their individual research and actual games. J\u014dsekis change continuously, some even becoming obsolete when they are reevaluated to no longer end up in a balanced play. \nExamples of j\u014dsekis in shogi include the Saginomiya joseki, the Kimura joseki, and the Yamada joseki."}
{"id": "761679", "revid": "25321472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761679", "title": "M. F. Thatherton", "text": ""}
{"id": "761682", "revid": "74099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761682", "title": "Hasegawa Machiko", "text": ""}
{"id": "761689", "revid": "43000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761689", "title": "Tanganyica", "text": ""}
{"id": "761691", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761691", "title": "Obshchestvo Bezbozhnikov", "text": ""}
{"id": "761693", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761693", "title": "Miy\u00fb Sawai", "text": ""}
{"id": "761695", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761695", "title": "Sawai Miy\u00fb", "text": ""}
{"id": "761698", "revid": "74099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761698", "title": "The Wonderful World of Sazae-san", "text": ""}
{"id": "761702", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761702", "title": "Sawai Miyuu", "text": ""}
{"id": "761704", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761704", "title": "Meio Setsuna", "text": ""}
{"id": "761705", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761705", "title": "Helen Dunmore", "text": "Helen Dunmore FRSL (12 December 1952 \u2013 5 June 2017) was a British poet, novelist, and short story and children's writer.\nHer best known works include the novels \"Zennor in Darkness\", \"A Spell of Winter\" and \"The Siege\", and her last book of poetry \"Inside the Wave\". She won the inaugural Orange Prize for Fiction, the National Poetry Competition, and posthumously the Costa Book Award.\nBiography.\nDunmore was born in Beverley, Yorkshire, in 1952, the second of four children of Betty (\"n\u00e9e\" Smith) and Maurice Dunmore.\nShe attended Sutton High School, London and Nottingham Girls' High School, then direct grant grammar schools.\nShe studied English at the University of York, and lived in Finland for two years (1973\u201375) and worked as a teacher. She lived after that in Bristol. Dunmore was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature (FRSL). Some of Dunmore's children's books are included in reading schemes for use in schools.\nIn March 2017, she published her last novel, \"Birdcage Walk\", as well as an article about mortality for \"The Guardian\" written after she was diagnosed with terminal cancer. She died on 5 June 2017. Her final poetry collection \"Inside the Wave\", published in April 2017 shortly before her death, posthumously won the Poetry and overall Book of the Year awards in the 2017 Costa Book Awards.\nPersonal life.\nDunmore's husband Frank Charnley, whom she married in 1980, is a lawyer. Dunmore had a son, daughter and stepson, and three grandchildren at the time of her death."}
{"id": "761706", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761706", "title": "Andrew Browne Cunningham", "text": ""}
{"id": "761709", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761709", "title": "Emmerdale Farm", "text": ""}
{"id": "761710", "revid": "10202399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761710", "title": "Cognitive neuropsychiatry", "text": "Cognitive neuropsychiatry is a growing multidisciplinary field arising out of cognitive psychology and neuropsychiatry that aims to understand mental illness and psychopathology in terms of models of normal psychological function. A concern with the neural substrates of\nimpaired cognitive mechanisms links cognitive neuropsychiatry to the basic neuroscience. Alternatively, CNP provides a way of uncovering normal psychological processes by studying the effects of their change or impairment.\nThe term \"cognitive neuropsychiatry\" was coined by Prof Hadyn Ellis (Cardiff University ) in a paper \"The cognitive neuropsychiatric origins of the Capgras delusion\", presented at the International Symposium on the Neuropsychology of Schizophrenia, Institute of Psychiatry, London (Coltheart, 2007).\nAlthough clinically useful, current syndrome classifications (e.g. DSM-IV; ICD-10) have no empirical basis as models of normal cognitive processes. CNP moves beyond diagnosis and classification to offer a cognitive explanation for established psychiatric behaviours, regardless of whether the symptoms are due to recognised brain pathology or to dysfunction in brain areas or networks without structural lesions.\nCNP has been influential, not least because of its early success in explaining some psychiatric delusions, most notably the Capgras delusion, Fregoli delusion and other delusional misidentification syndromes. The Capgras delusion is \"explained as the interruption in the covert route to face recognition, namely affective responses to familiar stimuli, localized in the dorsal route of vision from striate cortex to limbic system. According to standard molecular hypotheses, acute delusions are the result of a dysregulated activity of some neuromodulators.\"\nAdditionally, the study of cognitive neuropsychiatry has shown to intersect with the study of philosophy. This intersection revolves around a reconsideration of the mind-body relationship and the contemplation of moral issues that can arise by fields such as neuropsychopathology. For example, it has been under consideration whether or not Parkinson's patients should be held morally accountable for their physical actions. This discussion and study has taken place due to the discovery that under certain circumstances, Parkinson's patients can initiate and control their own movement. Examples such as this are cause for difficult judgement calls, i.e. \"about who is mad and who is bad\" (Stein 1999). Cognitive neuropsychiatry has also explored the difference between implicit and explicit cognition, especially in catatonic patients. For more information on the bridge between neuropsychiatry and philosophy see (e.g., Stein, Dan (1999). Philosophy, Psychiatry, &amp; Psychology)."}
{"id": "761711", "revid": "1879095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761711", "title": "Soviet aircraft carrier Ulyanovsk", "text": "Ulyanovsk (), Soviet designation Project 1143.7, was a STOBAR aircraft carrier laid down at the now-defunct Black Sea Shipyard on 25 November 1988 as the first of a class of nuclear-powered supercarriers for the Soviet Navy. It was intended for the first ship to offer true blue water naval aviation capability for the Soviet Union, as the ship would have been equipped with two steam catapults that could launch heavier fixed-wing aircraft, representing a major advance over the comparatively smaller , which could only launch lighter/partly loaded aircraft via a bow ski-jump. However, construction of \"Ulyanovsk\" was stopped at about 40% due to the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, and the unfinished hull was later scrapped in early 1992.\nHistory.\nBackground.\nThe Soviet Union's Nevsky Engineering Design Bureau developed the third-generation heavy aircraft cruiser \"Kuznetsov\" with Su-33 in the 1980s (Plan 1143.5/Order 105) and the \"Varyag\" aircraft carrier (Plan 1143.6/Order 106), at the same time, in December 1984, the construction of the fourth-generation large-scale nuclear-powered heavy aircraft cruiser began. The plan number was \"Plan 1143.7\", and the preliminary design was completed in 1986. On November 25, 1988, construction for \"Order 107\" \u2015 named \"Ulyanovsk\" \u2015 officially began at the Black Sea Shipyard.\nTo this end, the Soviet government allocated funds to carry out the second large-scale technical transformation of the Black Sea Shipyard, including:\nEnding.\nDue to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the amount of funding to complete the carrier was insufficient, and the aircraft carrier construction plan was suspended. As of November 1991, Ulyanovsk was only 40% complete.\nThe No. 2 ship \"Plan 1143.8\" originally planned to be built was also cancelled at the same time.\nDesign.\n\"Ulyanovsk\" was based upon the 1975 Project 1153 Orel, which did not get beyond blueprints. The initial commissioned name was to be \"Kremlin\", but was later given the name \"Ulyanovsk\" after the Soviet city of Ulyanovsk, which was originally named Simbirsk but later renamed after Vladimir Lenin's original name because he was born there.\nIt would have been 85,000\u00a0tonnes in displacement (larger than the older carriers but smaller than contemporary of the U.S. Navy). \"Ulyanovsk\" would have been able to launch the full range of fixed-wing carrier aircraft, as it was equipped with two catapults as well as a ski jump. The configuration would have been very similar to U.S. Navy carriers though with the typical Soviet practice of adding anti-ship missile (ASM) and surface-to-air missile (SAM) launchers. Its hull was laid down in 1988, but construction was cancelled at 40% complete in January 1991 and a planned second unit was never laid down.\nIn accordance with Decree No. 69-R of February 4, 1992, signed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kostyantyn Masyk, on February 5, 1992, scrapping of the ship's hull structures began. By October 29, 1992, the slipway was free, and the ship (order 107) had ceased to exist.\nAir group.\nThe \"Ulyanovsk\" air group was to include 68 aircraft with the following planned composition:\nThe ship was to be equipped with two \"Mayak\" steam catapults made by the Proletarian Factory in Leningrad, a ski-jump, and four arresting gear. For storing aircraft, it was to have a 175\u00d732\u00d77.9-m hangar deck with aircraft elevated to the flight deck by three elevators with carrying capacities of 50 tons (two on the starboard side and one on the port). The stern was intended to house the \"Luna\" optical landing guidance system."}
{"id": "761722", "revid": "10202399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761722", "title": "Jane Draycott", "text": "Jane Draycott FRSL is a British poet, artistic collaborator (sound montages, etc) and poetry translator. She was born in London in 1954 and studied at King's College London and the University of Bristol. \nDraycott's fifth collection \"The Kingdom\" was published in 2023 by Carcanet Press.\nTeaching.\nDraycott teaches as Senior Associate Tutor on Oxford University's MSt in Creative Writing, and until 2022 was Senior Lecturer in the Department of English and Creative Writing at Lancaster University as well as a mentor on the Crossing Borders creative writing initiative, set up by the British Council and Lancaster University. In addition to her work at Oxford and Lancaster, she was Royal Literary Fund Fellow at Oxford Brookes University 2004-06, as well as at Aston University in 2010-12 and Royal Holloway University of London 2021-22. In 2014-16 she was a Royal Literary Fund [RLF] Lector, becoming an Advisory Fellow in 2018 and appointed as an RLF Associate Fellow in 2022.\nTranslation, work in Dutch.\nDraycott's translation work includes a poetic version of the 14th century elegy \"Pearl\" - a Stephen Spender Prize-winner in 2008 - and a collection of new translations of the 20th century artist and poet Henri Michaux \"Storms Under the Skin\" (a Poetry Book Society Recommended Translation) published in 2017 by Two Rivers Press. In 2013, Draycott was Writer-in-Residence hosted by the Dutch Foundation for Literature in Amsterdam, researching poet Martinus Nijhoff's modernist Dutch narrative \"Awater\".\nAudio, music.\nDraycott was previously poet in residence at Henley's River and Rowing Museum, creating a millennium archive of audio interviews with the men and women working on the London Thames. She has recorded a number of her poems for The Poetry Archive and is one of the poets featured in the national \"Poetry By Heart\" anthology.\nSettings to music of Draycott's poems have included a setting for the award-winning choir Tenebrae by composer Joanna Marsh of 'In Winter's House' (originally commissioned as part of laureate Carol Ann Duffy's 'Carols for Christmas' for \"The Guardian\" December 2010), premiered at the Wigmore Hall in December 2019.\nLiterary collaborations, film.\nHer collaborative work includes two collections from Two Rivers Press: \"Christina the Astonishing\" (1992), co-written with poet Lesley Saunders and illustrated by artist Peter Hay; and \"Tideway\" (2002), a sequence of poems written as part of a project with photographer Jaap Oepkes, documenting the lives of London's Company of Thames Watermen and women, with artworks by artist Peter Hay (both collections republished in 2022 in the \"Two Rivers Classics\" series). Her poem from this collection, 'No. 3 from \"Uses for the Thames\"', was shortlisted for the 2002 Forward Prize for Best Single Poem and features in the Poems on the Underground 2016 series 'London is Open'.\nOther collaborative work includes several award-winning sound-compositions with poet Elizabeth James (\"Sea Green I and II\" - winner of BBC Radio 3 Poem for Radio 1998; \"A Glass Case\" for BBC R3 \"Between the Ears\" (1999), produced by Susan Roberts; and \"Rock Music\" for LBC radio, winner of a London Sound Art Award 2000, produced by Richard Shannon).\nIn 2010, Draycott was part of Simon Barraclough's \"Psycho Poetica\", a collaborative multi-media event launched at the British Film Institute for the 50th anniversary of Alfred Hitchcock's seminal thriller, and in 2013 was one of ten poets commissioned by Barraclough for his BFI collaborative project \"Poets on Pasolini: A New Decameron\". Her poem 'Who keeps observance in the fever room?' from Julia Bird's 2015\n\"Beginning to See the Light\" event at London's South Bank has been made into a film by filmmaker Corinne Silva.\nPoetry prizes, honours, adjudication.\nDraycott's debut poetry pamphlet \"No Theatre\" (Smith/Doorstop, 1997) was shortlisted for the Forward Prize for Best First Collection, and her first full collection \"Prince Rupert's Drop\" (OUP and Carcanet Press, 1999) was shortlisted two years later for the Forward Prize for Best Collection.\nIn 2002 she was the winner of the Keats-Shelley Prize for Poetry with the title poem of her second collection, The Night Tree, and in 2004 she was nominated as one of the Poetry Book Society's 'Next Generation' poets. In 2009, her collection \"Over\" was nominated for the T S Eliot Prize, and in 2016 her next collection \"The Occupant\" was selected as a Poetry Book Society Recommendation.\nDraycott has served on judging panels for a number of literary prizes, including the T S Eliot Prize, the Society of Authors' Vondel Prize for translation, the Edward Thomas Prize, The Troubadour International Poetry Prize, the Tower Poetry Competition (Christ Church Oxford), and all three of the UK Poetry Society's National Poetry Competition, Foyles Young Poets Awards, and Geoffrey Dearmer Prize.\nIn 2020 Draycott was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and in 2023 was awarded a Society of Authors Cholmondeley Award."}
{"id": "761723", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761723", "title": "Second Battle of Kosovo", "text": ""}
{"id": "761724", "revid": "86247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761724", "title": "Krueger", "text": ""}
{"id": "761725", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761725", "title": "Picea omorika", "text": "Picea omorika, the Serbian spruce (in , , \"Pan\u010di\u0107's spruce\"), is a species of coniferous tree endemic to the Drina River valley in western Serbia, and eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a total range of only about 60 ha, at altitude. It was originally discovered near the Serbian village of Zaovine, on Mount Tara, in 1875, and named by the Serbian botanist Josif Pan\u010di\u0107; the specific epithet is simply the Serbian word for the tree (other spruces are in Serbian).\nDescription.\nIt is a medium-sized evergreen tree growing to tall, exceptionally , with a trunk diameter of up to , and a conic crown; the crown is very narrow on high altitude trees, broader at lower altitudes. The shoots are buff-brown, and densely pubescent (hairy). The leaves are needle-like, 10\u201320\u00a0mm long, flattened in cross-section, dark green above, and with two glaucous blue-white stomatal stripes below. The cones are long, fusiform (spindle-shaped, broadest in the middle), dark purple (almost black) when young, maturing dark brown 5\u20137 months after pollination, with stiff scales.\nThe tallest specimen in the wild currently known is 30.2\u00a0m tall; older claims of trees up to 50\u00a0m tall are now unverifiable. In cultivation, the tallest currently known is 33\u00a0m tall, in the Arboretum Mustila in Finland, with another not far behind at 31.5\u00a0m at Murthly Castle in Scotland.\nEcology.\nBecause of its limited range, it is not a major source of nutrition to wildlife, but does provide cover for birds and small mammals. Prior to the Pleistocene ice ages, it had a much larger range throughout most of Europe.\nCultivation.\nOutside its native range, Serbian spruce is of major importance as an ornamental tree in large gardens, valued in northern Europe and North America for its very attractive crown form and ability to grow on a wide range of soils, including alkaline, clay, acid and sandy soil, although it prefers moist, drained loam. The crown shape is heritable, with high altitude seed sources retaining the narrow crown in cultivation, and lower altitude sources their broader crown.\nIt is also grown to a small extent in forestry for Christmas trees, timber and paper production, particularly in northern Europe, though its slow growth makes it less important than Sitka spruce or Norway spruce. In cultivation, it has produced hybrids with the closely related black spruce (named as \"P. \u00d7 mariorika\"), and also with Sitka spruce.\nAGM cultivars.\nThe following cultivars have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit: "}
{"id": "761729", "revid": "139093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761729", "title": "George Fenton", "text": "George Richard Ian Howe Fenton (born 19 October 1949), known professionally as George Fenton, is an English composer. Best known for his work writing film scores and music for television, he has received five Academy Award nominations, several Ivor Novello, BAFTA, Golden Globe, Emmy and BMI Awards, and a Classic BRIT. He is one of 18 songwriters and composers to have been made a Fellow of the Ivors Academy (formally BASCA).\nHe has frequently collaborated with the directors Richard Attenborough, Nora Ephron, Alastair Fothergill, Stephen Frears, Nicholas Hytner, Ken Loach, Andy Tennant, Neil Jordan and Terry Gilliam.\nEarly life and career.\nGeorge Fenton was born in 1949 in Bromley, Kent, one of five siblings. He was educated at Carn Brea School and St. Edward's School, Oxford. He began learning the guitar at the age of 8 and at St. Edwards studied the organ with Peter Whitehouse. He did not attend music college but continued to study with Pete Whitehouse and subsequently with the ethnomusicologist and composer, John Leach.\nIn 1968 he appeared in Alan Bennett's first West End play \"Forty Years On\". The following year he was offered a place at the Central School of Speech and Drama but had by then decided to continue with his music and had a record contract with MCA Records. For the next few years, he continued to work in theatre playing small parts and playing and writing music. In 1969, his cover of the Beatles \"Maxwell's Silver Hammer\" was released and became a large hit in Sweden, reaching number six on Kv\u00e4llstoppen and number one for two weeks on \"Tio i Topp\" in late January 1970.\nTheatre.\nIn 1974, Fenton received his first major commission, as composer and musical director for Peter Gill's theatre production of \"Twelfth Night\" by the Royal Shakespeare Company in Stratford-upon-Avon.\nThroughout the rest of the 1970s and early 1980s, Fenton worked frequently as a composer for theatre productions. He continued to collaborate regularly with Peter Gill (composing for 9 of his productions) and also worked in regional theatre as well as for the Royal Shakespeare Company and The National Theatre.\nOther theatre includes \"The Judas Kiss\", \"Last Cigarette\", \"Untold Stories\", \"Allelujah!\", \"Mrs Henderson Presents\", \"Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show\", \"Talking Heads\", \"Beat The Devil\" and \"Racing Demon\".\nIn 1992, George Fenton was credited with the Sound Track to the Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show at Disneyland, Paris.\nTelevision drama.\nFenton wrote his first television score in 1976. This was a continuation of his collaboration with Peter Gill and it was for Gill's production of \"Hitting Town\" written by Stephen Poliakoff.\nBy the late 1970s, Fenton was working regularly in television. His television work has included the regular role of soldier Martin Gimbel in Emmerdale Farm (1975-1976), LWT's \"Six Plays\" by Alan Bennett, \"Objects Of Affection\", \"An Englishman Abroad\", \"Talking Heads\" (2003), \"Bloody Kids\", \"Going Gently\", \"Walter\", \"Saigon: Year of The Cat\", \"Fox\", \"Out,\" \"Telling Tales\", \"The History Man (TV series)\", \"Shoestring (TV series)\", \"The Monocled Mutineer\" and the multi BAFTA winning \"The Jewel In The Crown\".\nWildlife television documentaries.\nFenton has composed for a number of notable wildlife television programmes, often collaborating with the wildlife broadcaster David Attenborough and the nature documentary filmmaker Alastair Fothergill. He started on the BBC's long-running series \"Wildlife on One\" and \"Natural World\".\nSince 1990, he has written the music for a number of wildlife series including \"The Trials of Life\", \"Life in the Freezer\", \"The Blue Planet\", \"Planet Earth\", and \"Frozen Planet\". Other documentaries include \"Beyond The Clouds\", \"Shanghai Vice\" and \"Between Clouds and Dreams\" (for Director Phil Agland).\nIn 2003, he composed and conducted the music for the feature documentary film, \"Deep Blue\". It was performed by the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra \u2013 the first film score the orchestra had recorded in its history. In 2007 they repeated the collaboration for the feature documentary film, \"Earth\".\nIn 2022 George partnered up with Alastair Fothergill and David Attenborough again, this time for BBC One\u2019s Wild Isles series.\nTelevision and radio themes.\nFenton has composed the jingles or theme music to dozens of British television and radio programmes, including \"Shoestring\", \"Bergerac\", \"One O'Clock News\", \"Six O'Clock News\" and \"Nine O'Clock News\", \"Newsnight\" and \"Newsnight Review\", \"On the Record\", \"Omnibus\", \"Breakfast Time\", \"BBC World News\", \"BBC Reporting Scotland\", \"BBC London Plus\", \"Telly Addicts\", \"Daily Politics\", and BBC Radio 4's \"PM\" programme.\nFeature films.\nFenton has written the music for over one hundred feature films.\nHis first major break came in 1982 with Richard Attenborough's biopic \"Gandhi\", for which he was nominated\u2014with his collaborator, Ravi Shankar for the Academy Award for Original Music Score. Fenton wrote another four film scores for Attenborough's films: \"Cry Freedom\", \"Shadowlands\", \"In Love and War\" and \"Grey Owl\".\nHe has also frequently worked with the theatre and film director Nicholas Hytner, writing the score for all six of the movies that Hytner has directed. These are \"The Madness of King George\", \"The Crucible\", \"The Object of My Affection\", \"Center Stage\", \"The History Boys\" and \"The Lady in the Van\". The latter three of these allowed Fenton to collaborate again with their writer Alan Bennett. Although Fenton composed the original music of five of these films, for \"The Madness of King George\" he instead adapted and arranged the music of Handel.\nFenton's long-standing collaboration with Stephen Frears has not been limited to television productions. Fenton has scored four of Frear's feature films: \"Dangerous Liaisons\", \"Hero\", \"Mary Reilly\" and \"Mrs Henderson Presents\". He also worked with the director Neil Jordan, scoring \"The Company of Wolves\", \"High Spirits\" and \"We're No Angels\".\nFenton has scored more feature films for Ken Loach than for any other filmmaker, by 2023, a total of 18. This started in 1994 with \"Ladybird, Ladybird\" followed by \"Land and Freedom\", \"Carla's Song\", \"My Name Is Joe\", \"Bread and Roses\", \"The Navigators\", \"Sweet Sixteen\", \"Ae Fond Kiss...\", \"The Wind That Shakes the Barley\" which won the Palme d'Or at the 2006 Cannes Film Festival, \"It's a Free World...\", \"Looking for Eric\", \"The Angels' Share\", the documentary film \"The Spirit of '45\", \"Jimmy's Hall\", \"I, Daniel Blake\" and, most recently, \"Sorry We Missed You\" and \"The Old Oak\".\nFenton has developed other long-standing collaborations with filmmakers, scoring several films each for directors as diverse as Harold Ramis, Nora Ephron, Phil Joanou and Andy Tennant, including \"Multiplicity\", \"Groundhog Day\", \"Mixed Nuts\", \"You've Got Mail\", \"Final Analysis\", \"The Fisher King\", \"Heaven's Prisoners\", \"Ever After: A Cinderella Story\", \"Sweet Home Alabama (film)\", \"Anna and the King\", \"Hitch\", \"Bewitched\" and \"\" and Andy Tennant's new thriller \"Unit 234\".\nLive.\nFenton won an Ivor Novello Award, BAFTA and Emmy Award for Best Television Score for \"The Blue Planet\" and, in October 2002, he created \"The Blue Planet in Concert\" which was premiered at the Royal Festival Hall in London. He subsequently created Planet Earth In Concert and Frozen Planet In Concert and took these concerts to venues such as Hollywood Bowl, Sydney Opera House, Wembley Arena and the Ziggo Dome in Amsterdam.\nIn 2003, he scored and conducted the music for the documentary film \"Deep Blue\", which was performed by the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra, the first film score the orchestra had recorded in its history. In 2007, they repeated the collaboration for the documentary film, \"Earth\". With the producer Jane Carter, Fenton turned each of the scores into concert works. His live film scores continue to be performed by orchestras worldwide.\nHonours.\nFenton was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2023 New Year Honours for services to music.\nOther work.\nFenton founded the Association of Professional Composers which later amalgamated with the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors and with the Composers' Guild of Great Britain to become the British Academy of Composers &amp; Songwriters. He is a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and is a visiting professor at the Royal College of Music and the University of Nottingham.\nIn 2020, he and Simon Chamberlain released the album, \"The Piano Framed\". Available digitally and on CD and vinyl, it has solo piano arrangements by Chamberlain of many of Fenton's scores including \"The Blue Planet\", \"Dangerous Liaisons\", \"The Lady in the Van\" and \"Groundhog Day\"."}
{"id": "761730", "revid": "49919251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761730", "title": "Gennadius of Massilia", "text": "Gennadius of Massilia (died c. 496), also known as Gennadius Scholasticus or Gennadius Massiliensis, was a 5th-century Christian priest, monk, and historian.\nHis best-known work is \"De Viris Illustribus\" (\"Of Famous Men\"), a biography of over 90 contemporary significant Christians, which continued a work of the same name by Jerome.\nLife.\nGennadius was a monk and later priest of Massilia (now Marseille), a contemporary of Pope Gelasius I (pope from 492 to 496). Considered by Christopher Blunda to be \"one of the most theologically learned figures of his day\", he was familiar with the lives of authors spanning the previous eight decades.\nLittle is known of his life, except for a brief statement in the last biography he wrote: \"I, Gennadius, presbyter of Massilia, wrote eight books against all heresies, five books against Nestorius, ten books against Eutyches, three books against Pelagius, a treatise on the thousand years of the Apocalypse of John, this work, and a letter about my faith sent to blessed Gelasius, bishop of the city of Rome\".\nWritings.\nGennadius knew Greek well and was familiar with Eastern and Western, orthodox and heretical Christian literature. He was a diligent compiler and a competent critic.\nDe Viris Illustribus.\n\"De Viris Illustribus\", in its most commonly accepted form, was probably published c. 495 and contains, in some ten folio pages, short biographies of ecclesiastics between the years 392 and 495. It is an important historical source on the over ninety authors treated therein, and in many cases the only surviving record.\nIt is a continuation of St. Jerome's \"De Viris Illustribus\". In that work Jerome had for the first time drawn up a series of 135 short biographies of famous Christians, with lists of their chief writings. It was the first patrology and dictionary of Christian biography, and became very popular. Many people, including a disciple of Jerome named Paterius, wrote similar continuations; Sophronius produced a Greek translation.\nIt was Gennadius's continuation that became most popular and was accepted everywhere as a second part of Jerome's work, and was always written (eventually printed) together with his. Gennadius's part contains about one hundred lives, modelled closely after those of Jerome. Various edits and reprints do not number them consistently; by Bernoulli, i to xcvii, with some marked as xciib, etc., originally cxxxvi-ccxxxii).\nThe series is arranged more or less in chronological order, but there are frequent exceptions.\nIn xc, 92, he says (in one version) that Theodore of Coelesyria (Theodulus) \"died three years ago, in the reign of Zeno\". From this Czapla deduces that Gennadius wrote between 491 and 494.\nThe present form of the text indicates a repeated revision of the entire work. Other people have modified it and added to it without noting the fact\u2014as is usual among medieval writers. Some scholars including Richardson and Czapla consider that chapters xxx (Bishop John II of Jerusalem), lxxxvii (Victorinus), xciii (Caerealis of Africa.), and all the end portion (xcv-ci), are not authentic. There is doubt about parts of the others.\nOther writings.\nGennadius states that he composed a number of other works, most of which are not extant:\nDe Ecclesiasticis Dogmatibus.\nThere is a treatise called \"De Ecclesiasticis Dogmatibus\" (\"Of Church Doctrine\") which was originally attributed to Augustine of Hippo but is now universally attributed to Gennadius. The work was long included among those of St. Augustine.\nSome scholars (Carl Paul Caspari, Otto Bardenhewer, Bruno Czapla) think that it is probably a fragment of Gennadius's eight books \"against all heresies\", apparently the last part, in which, having confuted the heretics, he builds up a positive system.\nPublication.\nThe \"De Viris Illustribus\" was edited and published by J. Andreas (Rome, 1468), by J. A. Fabricius in \"Bibliotheca ecclesiastica\" (Hamburg, 1718), and by E. C. Richardson in \"Texte und Untersuchungen\", xiv. (Leipsig, 1896). It also appears with many editions of the works of Jerome.\nAn English translation by Richardson was produced in the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers, 2nd ser, iii. 385\u2013402.\nA critical edition of the \"Liber de Ecclesiasticis Dogmatibus\" under the title \"Liber Ecclesiasticorum Dogmatum\" was published by C. H. Turner in the \"Journal of Theological Studies\" vii. (1905), pp.\u00a078\u201399 at pp.\u00a089\u201399. Turner's introduction reviews a number of previous editions and also provides a survey of manuscript copies that were known to him, including several that he used for the edition.\nTheological Views.\nIt has been said that Gennadius was of the so-called Semi-Pelagian persuasion, but this terminology was coined in the 16th century and is contested. In \"De Viris Illustribus\" Semi-Pelagians among the Catholics are warmly praised (Fastidiosus, lvi, p. 80; Cassian, lxi, 81; Faustus of Riez, lxxxv, 89), while full Pelagians (Pelagius himself, xlii, 77; Julian of Eclanum, xlv, 77) are called heretics. Augustinians, however, are also given praise (Augustine of Hippo, xxxviii, 75; Prosper of Aquitaine, lxxxiv, 89), though perhaps somewhat muted. While it is generally accepted that his theological sympathies were with the Semi-Pelagians, there is scholarly disagreement over Gennadius' position with regard to Augustine. Thomas O'Loughlin says Gennadius counted Augustine \"among the illustrious teachers\" and therefore serves as a witness to his positive reception in the generations immediately after his death, whereas Christopher Blunda interprets him as trying to \"counteract [Augustine's] posthumous ascendance as a doctrinal authority\" by dedicating a relatively terse entry to him, praising his piety and learning but ignoring most of his writings, and implying that some of his teachings were erroneous or could lead to confusion.\nThe Catholic Encyclopedia detects similar Semi-Pelagian tendencies in the treatise \"De eccles. dogmatibus\", which is said to be \"full of Semipelagianism, either open or implied (original sin carefully evaded, great insistence on free will and denial of predestination, grace as an adjutorium in the mildest form, etc.).\" Gennadius considers (like later writers, e.g. Thomas Aquinas) that all men, even those alive at the Second Coming, will have to die. But this conviction, though derived from a widespread patristic tradition, is, he admits, rejected by equally catholic and learned Fathers.\nOf the theories concerning the soul of man subsequently known as the creationist and the traducianist views, he espouses the creationist. He will not allow the existence of the spirit as a third element in man besides the body and the soul, but regards it as only another name for the soul.\nIn \"De Ecclesiasticis Dogmatibus\", his views include the following points:\nThe language of Gennadius is here not quite Augustinian; but neither is it Pelagian."}
{"id": "761731", "revid": "32218334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761731", "title": "Quantity theory of money", "text": "The quantity theory of money (often abbreviated QTM) is a hypothesis within monetary economics which states that the general price level of goods and services is directly proportional to the amount of money in circulation (i.e., the money supply), and that the causality runs from money to prices. This implies that the theory potentially explains inflation. It originated in the 16th century and has been proclaimed the oldest surviving theory in economics.\nAccording to some, the theory was originally formulated by Renaissance mathematician Nicolaus Copernicus in 1517, whereas others mention Mart\u00edn de Azpilcueta and Jean Bodin as independent originators of the theory. It has later been discussed and developed by several prominent thinkers and economists including John Locke, David Hume, Irving Fisher and Alfred Marshall. Milton Friedman made a restatement of the theory in 1956 and made it into a cornerstone of monetarist thinking.\nThe theory is often stated in terms of the equation = , where is the money supply, is the velocity of money, and is the nominal value of output or nominal GDP ( itself being a price index and the amount of real output). This equation is known as the quantity equation or the equation of exchange and is itself uncontroversial, as it can be seen as an accounting identity, residually defining velocity as the ratio of nominal output to the supply of money. Assuming additionally that is exogenous, being independently determined by other factors, that is constant, and that is exogenous and under the control of the central bank, the equation is turned into a theory which says that inflation (the change in over time) can be controlled by setting the growth rate of . However, all three assumptions are arguable and have been challenged over time. Output is generally believed to be affected by monetary policy at least temporarily, velocity has historically changed in unanticipated ways because of shifts in the money demand function, and some economists believe the money supply to be endogenously determined and hence not controlled by the monetary authorities. While it is called the Quantity Theory of Money, as James Tobin pointed out in his debate with Milton Friedman it should be called the Quantity Theory of Prices or Inflation, since it is a theory of the inflation rate, and not of the money growth rate. \nThe QTM played an important role in the monetary policy of the 1970s and 1980s when several leading central banks (including the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England and Bundesbank) based their policies on a money supply target in accordance with the theory. However, the results were not satisfactory, and strategies focusing specifically on monetary aggregates were generally abandoned during the 1980s and 1990s. Today, most major central banks in practice follow inflation targeting by suitably changing interest rates, and monetary aggregates play little role in monetary policy considerations in most countries.\nOrigins and development.\nBefore 1900: Early contributions.\nThe \"state savings\" (\u570b\u84c4) chapter of the Guanzi (a Chinese philosophical and political text compiled in the early Han dynasty which discusses concepts of political economy that evolved in the Spring and Autumn period) has been described as the first-ever exposition of the quantity theory of money.\nEconomic historian Mark Blaug has called the quantity theory of money \"the oldest surviving theory in economics\", its origins originating in the 16th century. Nicolaus Copernicus noted in 1517 that money usually depreciates in value when it is too abundant, which is by some historians taken as the first mention of the theory. Robert Dimand in the chapter on the history of monetary economics in \"The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics\" identified Mart\u00edn de Azpilcueta (1536) and Jean Bodin (1568) as the originators of a proper theory usable for explaining the observed quadrupling of prices during the phenomenon known as the Price Revolution following the influx of silver from the New World to Europe.\nJohn Locke studied the velocity of circulation, and David Hume in 1752 used the quantity theory to develop his price\u2013specie flow mechanism explaining balance of payments adjustments. Also Henry Thornton, John Stuart Mill and Simon Newcomb among others contributed to the development of the quantity theory.\nDuring the 19th century, a main rival of the quantity theory was the real bills doctrine, which says that the issue of money does not raise prices, as long as the new money is issued in exchange for assets of sufficient value. According to proponents of the real bills doctrine, money supply responded passively in response to money demand. Consequently, there could be no causal influence from money to prices; conversely, the connection ran in the opposite direction: Money demand was determined by income and prices, which were affected by inflation, caused by various real (i.e., non-monetary) reasons.\n1900\u20131950: Fisher, Wicksell, Marshall and Keynes.\nThe eminent economist Irving Fisher, building upon work by Newcomb, developed the theory further in what has been called \"The Golden Age of the quantity theory\", formalizing the equation of exchange and attempting to measure the velocity of money independently empirically. Fisher insisted on the long-run neutrality of money, but admitted that money was not neutral during transition periods of up to 10 years. Another renowned monetary economist, Knut Wicksell, criticized the quantity theory of money, citing the notion of a \"pure credit economy\". Wicksell instead emphasized real shocks as a cause of observed price movements and developed his theory of the natural rate of interest to explain why the monetary authority should stabilize by setting the interest rate rather than the quantity of money \u2013 a position that has received renewed attention during the 21st century, exemplified in the influential Taylor rule of monetary policy.\nThe extremely influential neoclassical economist Alfred Marshall, Professor at Cambridge, expounded the quantity theory in a version which stated that desired cash balances (i.e., money demand) was proportional to nominal income. The proposition is normally written , where is the proportionality factor. This is known as the Cambridge equation, a variant of the quantity theory. As the coefficient is the reciprocal of , the income velocity of circulation of money in the equation of exchange, the two versions of the quantity theory are formally equivalent, though the Cambridge variant focuses on money demand as an important element of the theory. \nMarshall's disciple John Maynard Keynes extended his monetary analysis in several ways and eventually integrated it into his \"General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money\", published in 1936, which formed the cornerstone of the Keynesian Revolution. Keynes accepted the quantity theory in principle as accurate over the long run, but not over the short run, coining in his 1923 book \"A Tract on Monetary Reform\" the famous sentence, \"In the long run, we are all dead\". He emphasized that money demand (or, in his terminology, liquidity preference) depended on the interest rate as well as nominal income, and contended that contrary to contemporaneous thinking, velocity and output were not stable, but highly variable and as such, the quantity of money was of little importance in driving prices. Rather, changes in the money supply could have effects on real variables like output.\nAt the same time, as Keynes personally, and his followers who contributed to the resulting theoretical foundation of Keynesian economics, in principle recognized a role for monetary policy in stabilizing economic fluctuations over the business cycle, in practice they believed that fiscal policy was more efficient for this purpose, maintaining that changes in interest rates had little effect on demand and output. The Keynesian paradigm came to dominate macroeconomic thinking until the 1970s, assigning little attention to monetary policy.\nMonetarism.\nHowever, from the 1950s and increasingly during the 1960s, the Keynesian view was challenged by an initially small, but increasingly influential minority, the monetarists, the intellectual leader of which was Milton Friedman. In response to the Keynesian view of the world, he made a restatement of the quantity theory in 1956 and used it as a cornerstone for monetarist thinking.\nFriedman agreed that money could affect output in the short run. Indeed, he believed that monetary policy was much more powerful in this respect than fiscal policy. Together with Anna Schwartz, he wrote in 1963 the influential book \"A Monetary History of the United States\", concluding that movements in money explained most of the fluctuations in output, and reinterpreted the Great Depression as the result of a major mistake in American monetary policy, failing to avoid a large contraction in the money supply during the 1930s. \nAt the same time, Friedman was sceptical as to the use of active monetary policy to stabilise output, believing that knowledge of the economy was too little to ensure that such policies would improve rather than worsen the situation. Instead, he advocated a simple monetary policy rule of maintaining a steady growth rate in money supply, which would not result in perfect short-run stabilisation, but in accordance with the quantity theory would ensure a steady long-run inflation rate. This came to be the main policy recommendation of the monetarists.\nConsequently, the monetarist application of the quantity-theory approach aimed at removing monetary policy as a source of macroeconomic instability by targeting a constant, low growth rate of the money supply. The zenith of monetarist influence came during the late 1970s and the 1980s, after inflation had risen in many countries during the 1970s caused by the 1970s energy crisis, and the fixed exchange rate system among major Western economies known as the Bretton Woods system had been dissolved. In that situation several central banks turned to a money supply target in an attempt to reduce inflation. For instance the U.S. Federal Reserve System led by chairman Paul Volcker announced a money growth target, starting from October 1979. \nThe results were not satisfactory, however, because the relationship between monetary aggregates and other macroeconomic variables proved to be rather unstable. Similar results prevailed in other countries. Firstly, the relation between money growth and inflation turned out to be not very tight, even over 10-year periods, and secondly, the relation between the money supply and the interest rate in the short run turned out to be unreliable, too, making money growth an unreliable instrument to affect demand and output. The reason for both problems was frequent shifts in the demand for money during the period, partly because of changes in financial intermediation. This made velocity unpredictable and weakened the link between money and prices implied by the quantity theory. Milton Friedman later acknowledged that direct money supply targeting was less successful than he had hoped. \nNew classical economists.\nFor a third group of post-war macroeconomists beside Keynesians and monetarists, the new classical economists, the quantity theory of money was also a doctrine of fundamental importance, but Robert E. Lucas and other leading new classical economists made serious efforts to specify and refine its theoretical meaning. These theoretical considerations involved serious changes as to the scope of countercyclical economic policy. The new classical model held that even in the short run, monetary policy could not be used to stabilize output as only unexpected changes in money could affect real variables. However, this view did not gain widespread support, failing to be confirmed by empirical tests. Empirically, evidence generally supports that there is a short-run linkage between money and economic activity.\nAfter 1990: Decline of money supply targeting.\nFollowing the difficulties of the 1980s in conducting a satisfactory monetary policy by money supply targeting, most central banks, including the U.S. Federal Reserve, turned away from focusing on monetary aggregates, instead implementing their policies by setting short-term interest rates. Among monetary researchers, the demise of the money supply as a policy variable was recognized and rationalized by Michael Woodford.\nFrom 1990, the new principle of inflation targets as the basis for a country's monetary policy gained popularity, starting with New Zealand and eventually spreading to most developed countries. Inflation targeting countries set interest rates to influence economic activity via the monetary transmission mechanism, eventually affecting inflation to fulfill their inflation targets. The communication of inflation targets helps to anchor the public inflation expectations, it makes central banks more accountable for their actions, and it reduces economic uncertainty among the participants in the economy. \nMoney supply (M2) for some time remained a leading economic indicator in the United States, but lost its status as such in the Conference Board Leading Economic Index in 2012, after it was ascertained that it had performed poorly as a leading indicator since 1989. Also in the policy making of the European Central Bank from 1999, monetary aggregates, which were initially officially assigned a prominent role as one of two pillars upon which the ECB monetary policy rested, were assigned a graduately more peripheral role among the indicators informing the bank's interest rate decisions.\nThe equation of exchange.\nIn its modern form, the quantity theory builds upon the following definitional relationship, formulated algebraically by Irving Fisher in 1911:\nformula_1\nwhere\nMainstream economics accepts a simplification, the equation of exchange, also called the quantity \"equation\":\nformula_10\nwhere\nThe previous equation presents the difficulty that the associated data are not available for all transactions. With the development of national income and product accounts, emphasis shifted to national-income or final-product transactions, rather than gross transactions. Economists may alternatively use a specification where\nAs an example, formula_15 might represent currency plus deposits in checking and savings accounts held by the public, formula_14 real output (which equals real expenditure in macroeconomic equilibrium) with formula_17 the corresponding price level, and formula_18 the nominal (money) value of output. In one empirical formulation, velocity was taken to be \"the ratio of net national product in current prices to the money stock\".\nFrom the quantity equation to the quantity theory.\nThe quantity equation itself as stated above is uncontroversial, as it amounts to an identity or, equivalently, simply a definition of velocity: From the equation, velocity can be defined residually as the ratio of nominal output to the stock of money: formula_19. Developing a theory out of the equation requires assumptions be made about the causal relationships among the four variables in this one equation. The crucial question is to which extent each of these variables is dependent upon the others. Without further restrictions, the equation does not require that a change in the money supply would change the value of any or all of formula_17, formula_14, or formula_18. For example, a 10% increase in formula_15 could be accompanied by a change of 1/(1 + 10%) in formula_13, leaving formula_18 unchanged. \nThe quantity \"theory\" of money consequently goes further, resting in its basic form on three additional assumptions:\nUnder these three assumptions, there is a causal effect of \"M\" on \"P\", and the central bank, by controlling money supply, will be able to directly control the price level of the economy. Specifically, a constant growth rate in the money stock will lead to a constant inflation rate, as long as real output grows at a constant rate. \nThe realism of each of the three assumptions has been debated over time, though, making the prominent monetarist economist David Laidler declare in 1991 that the quantity theory \"is always and everywhere controversial\". Firstly, most economists think that output can be affected by e.g. changes in demand including those that originate from monetary (or fiscal) policy in the short run, i.e. at any point in the business cycle, though in the medium and long run the assumption is more warranted. Indeed, the possibility of influencing and mitigating short-run output fluctuations is the basis for the stabilization policies of most central banks in developed countries today. Secondly, there is general agreement that velocity does change over time, and sometimes in unpredictable ways, because of changes in the money demand function; this may e.g. be the consequence of changes in the infrastructure of payment systems. This was considered a major problem during the 1970s and 1980s when several major central banks including the Federal Reserve tried conducting monetary policy following a money supply target. Thirdly, the exogeneity and control by the monetary authority of the money supply is questioned by some economists. James Tobin noted in 1970 that money might be correlated with output because money passively reacts to output. Central banks and consequently monetary bases can be said to react to events in the economy, and most of typical money supply measures are created by private commercial banks who may also be considered to be affected by the general economic atmosphere when carrying out their banking activities.\nCambridge approach.\nEconomists Alfred Marshall, A.C. Pigou, and John Maynard Keynes (before he developed his own, eponymous school of thought) associated with Cambridge University, took a slightly different approach to the quantity equation, focusing on money demand instead of money supply. They argued that a certain portion of the money supply will not be used for transactions; instead, it will be held for the convenience and security of having cash on hand. This portion of cash is commonly represented as \"k\", a portion of nominal income (formula_29). The Cambridge economists also thought wealth would play a role, but wealth is often omitted for simplicity. The Cambridge equation is thus:\nformula_30\nAssuming that the economy is at equilibrium (formula_31), formula_32 is exogenous, and \"k\" is fixed in the short run, the Cambridge equation is equivalent to the equation of exchange with velocity equal to the inverse of \"k\":\nformula_33\nThe Cambridge version of the quantity equation was used in both Keynes's attack on the quantity theory and the Monetarist revival of the theory.\nEvidence.\nAs restated by Milton Friedman, the quantity theory emphasizes the following relationship of the nominal value of expenditures formula_34 and the price level formula_17 to the quantity of money formula_36:\nformula_37\nThe plus signs indicate that a change in the money supply is hypothesized to change nominal expenditures and the price level in the same direction (for other variables held constant).\nMilton Friedman made an influential case for the theory in his 1956 paper \"Studies in the quantity theory of money\". Later, Friedman wrote in 1987 that the empirical regularity of a \"connection between substantial changes in the quantity of money and in the level of prices\" was perhaps the most-evidenced economic phenomenon on record, adding that \"The statistical connection itself, however, tells nothing about direction of influence\". According to Friedman, the short-run relation of a change in the money supply in the past has been relatively more associated with a change in real output formula_14 than the price level formula_17 in (1), but with much variation in the precision, timing, and size of the relation. For the \"long\"-run, there has been stronger support for (1) and (2) and no systematic association of formula_14 and formula_15.\nIn a more recent examination of data from 109 countries from 1991 onwards, it was found that inflation and money growth did not exhibit a proportional development; however, excess money growth did act as a predictor of inflation, but the effect during the time period examined was relatively low. \nIn 2016, Professor Harald Uhlig and two coauthors looked upon a cross-section of countries in the years 1970\u20132005. They found that for moderate-inflation countries (defined as countries with average inflation rates below 12%), the direct relationship between average inflation and the growth rate of money was very tenuous at best, though the fit could be improved by correcting for variation in output growth and the opportunity cost of money. They also found that for countries following inflation targeting, the fit of a one-for-one relationship between money growth and inflation was considerably lower than for other countries.\nMainstream economists' views.\nThough more disputed in the 1970s, surveys of members of the American Economic Association since the 1990s have shown that most professional American economists generally agree with the statement: \"Inflation is caused primarily by too much growth in the money supply.\"\nCriticism by non-mainstream economists.\nIn the 1860s, Karl Marx modified the quantity theory by arguing that the labor theory of value requires that prices, under equilibrium conditions, are determined by socially necessary labor time needed to produce the commodity and that quantity of money was a function of the quantity of commodities, the prices of commodities, and the velocity.\nIn 1912, Ludwig von Mises agreed that there was a core of truth in the quantity theory, but criticized its focus on the supply of money without adequately explaining the demand for money. He said the theory \"fails to explain the mechanism of variations in the value of money\".\nIn his 1976 book \"The Denationalisation of Money\", Friedrich Hayek described the quantity theory of money \"as no more than a useful rough approximation to a really adequate explanation\". According to him, the theory \"becomes wholly useless where several concurrent distinct kinds of money are simultaneously in use in the same territory.\""}
{"id": "761733", "revid": "206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761733", "title": "Gennadius of Marseilles", "text": ""}
{"id": "761735", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761735", "title": "Paavo J. Nurmi", "text": ""}
{"id": "761736", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761736", "title": "Paavo Johannes Nurmi", "text": ""}
{"id": "761740", "revid": "4441371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761740", "title": "The Tornadoes", "text": "The Tornadoes were an American surf band from Redlands, California. They were the second band to receive national airplay with a surf instrumental, after The Marketts, with their song \"Bustin' Surfboards\", released on Aertaun Records in 1962. \"Bustin' Surfboards\" has since become a classic and mainstay of the surf genre. One of its distinctions, and appeals, was that the song opened with the sound of an ocean swell that continued throughout the song, thereby creating a sense of being at a beach. The album with the same name was belatedly released on September 20, 1963. The band, however, did not manage to follow up on their success. Their song \"Shootin' Beavers\" was banned from airplay because of its suggestive title. The band temporarily changed their name to The Hollywood Tornadoes, because the British band The Tornados were charting with the song \"Telstar.\"\n\"Bustin' Surfboards\" was included on the \"Pulp Fiction\" soundtrack in 1994, thereby renewing interest in the band. The Tornadoes continued to perform through 2007. Members as of 2007 (including four members of the original band) were brothers Gerald (bass) and Norman \"Roly\" Sanders (lead guitar), their cousin Jesse Sanders (July 1943 \u2013 June 7, 2020) (rhythm guitar), Leonard Delaney (May 18, 1943 \u2013 October 5, 2014; drums) and Joel Willenbring (saxophone).\nIn 2005, they released a CD called \"Now and Then\" on the Crossfire Publications label containing 29 tracks, including live recordings from their performance at the Zappanale concert in Germany in 2003, cuts from a 1998 CD, and two new recordings. The 2006 Crossfire Publications CD \"Charge Of The Tornadoes\" featured more of their 1960s masters and Zappanale performances.\nThe band announced on their website that they would retire and cease performing as of November 2008, but the band has since decided to continue. During a conversation with Crossfire Publications head Greg Russo on July 13, 2014, Tornadoes leader Gerald Sanders confirmed that the band was still active.\nFormer band member Leonard Delaney died on October 5, 2014, aged 71, in San Bernardino, California, from complications of Alzheimer's disease. Former band member Jesse Sanders died at age 76 on June 7, 2020, of Alzheimer's disease also."}
{"id": "761742", "revid": "34238412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761742", "title": "Fiesta Songs", "text": "Fiesta Songs is a 2003 album by Se\u00f1or Coconut Y Su Conjunto (Uwe Schmidt). It is an album of covers done in a Latin American style. Like its predecessor, it is a tribute album, and includes covers of Deep Purple, The Doors, Michael Jackson, Sade, and Jean Michel Jarre."}
{"id": "761745", "revid": "47545712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761745", "title": "Doctor Tomoe", "text": ""}
{"id": "761746", "revid": "1450053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761746", "title": "Kruger", "text": "Kr\u00fcger, Krueger, Kreuger and Kruger (without the umlaut \u00fc) are German surnames originating from \"\", meaning tavern-keeper in Low German and potter in Central German and Upper German, both associated with the Germanic word wikt:Krug, \"jug\".\nNotable people with the surname include:"}
{"id": "761748", "revid": "1623918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761748", "title": "Lane Tech", "text": ""}
{"id": "761750", "revid": "1263534757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761750", "title": "Closely related key", "text": "In music, a closely related key (or close key) is one sharing many common tones with an original key, as opposed to a distantly related key (or distant key). In music harmony, there are six of them: four of them share all the pitches except one with a key with which it is being compared, one of them shares all the pitches, and one shares the same tonic.\nSuch keys are the most commonly used destinations or transpositions in a modulation, because of their strong structural links with the home key. Distant keys may be reached sequentially through closely related keys by chain modulation, for example, C to G to D. For example, \"One principle that every composer of Haydn's day [Classical music era] kept in mind was over-all unity of tonality. No piece dared wander too far from its tonic key, and no piece in a four-movement form dared to present a tonality not closely related to the key of the whole series.\" For example, the first movement of Mozart's Piano Sonata No. 7, K. 309, modulates only to closely related keys (the dominant, supertonic, and submediant).\nGiven a major key tonic (I), the related keys are: \nSpecifically:\nIn a minor key, the closely related keys are the parallel major, mediant or relative major, the subdominant, the minor dominant, the submediant, and the subtonic. In the key of A minor, when we translate them to keys, we get:\nAnother view of closely related keys is that there are six closely related keys, based on the tonic and the remaining triads of the diatonic scale, excluding the dissonant diminished triads. Four of the six differ by one accidental, one has the same key signature, and one uses the parallel modal form. In the key of C major, these would be: D minor, E minor, F major, G major, A minor, and C minor. Despite being three sharps or flats away from the original key in the circle of fifths, parallel keys are also considered as closely related keys as the tonal center is the same, and this makes this key have an affinity with the original key. \nIn modern music, the closeness of a relation between any two keys or sets of pitches may be determined by the number of tones they share in common, which allows one to consider modulations not occurring in standard major-minor tonality. For example, in music based on the pentatonic scale containing pitches C, D, E, G, and A, modulating a fifth higher gives the collection of pitches G, A, B, D, and E, having four of five tones in common. However, modulating up a tritone would produce F, G, A, C, D, which shares no common tones with the original scale. Thus the scale a fifth higher is very closely related, while the scale a tritone higher is not. Other modulations may be placed in order from closest to most distant depending upon the number of common tones.\nAccording to another view in modern music, notably in Bart\u00f3k, a common tonic produces closely related keys, the other scales being the six other modes. This usage can be found in several of the \"Mikrokosmos\" piano pieces.\nWhen modulation causes the new key to traverse the bottom of the circle of fifths this may give rise to a theoretical key, containing eight (or more) sharps or flats in its notated key signature; in such a case, notational conventions require recasting the new section in its enharmonically equivalent key.\nAndranik Tangian suggests 3D and 2D visualizations of key/chord proximity for both all major and all minor keys/chords by locating them along a single subdominant-dominant axis, which wraps a torus that is then unfolded."}
{"id": "761753", "revid": "51384982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761753", "title": "Tuamotus", "text": "The Tuamotu Archipelago or the Tuamotu Islands (, officially ) are a French Polynesian chain of just under 80 islands and atolls in the southern Pacific Ocean. They constitute the largest chain of atolls in the world, extending (from northwest to southeast) over an area roughly the size of Western Europe. Their combined land area is . This archipelago's major islands are Rangiroa, Anaa, Fakarava, Hao and Makemo.\nThe Tuamotus have approximately 16,000 inhabitants. The islands were initially settled by Polynesians, and modern Tuamotuans have inherited from them a shared culture and the Tuamotuan language.\nThe Tuamotus are a French overseas collectivity.\nHistory.\nThe early history of the Tuamotu islands is generally unknown. Archaeological findings suggest that the western Tuamotus were settled from the Society Islands as early as 900 CE or as late as 1200 CE. DNA evidence suggests that they were settled about 1110 CE. On the islands of Rangiroa, Manihi and Mataiva, there are flat ceremonial platforms (called \"marae\") made of coral blocks, although their exact age is unknown.\nThe first known European encounter with the Tuamotus was with the Portuguese sailor Ferdinand Magellan, during his circumglobal voyage in 1521. His encounter was followed by visits from several other Europeans, including:\nNone of these visits were of political consequence, as the islands were within the sphere of influence of the P\u014dmare Dynasty of Tahiti.\nThe first Christian missionaries arrived in the islands at the beginning of the 19th century. By the late 19th century, traders had begun offering pearls from the islands for sale in Europe, and they became coveted possessions there. France forced the abdication of King P\u014dmare V of Tahiti and claimed the islands, but did not formally annex them.\nRobert Louis Stevenson and Fanny Stevenson travelled among the Tuamotus (then called the Paumotus) on the yacht \"Casco\" in 1888; an account of their journey was published as \"In the South Seas\". Jack London wrote a story, \"The Seed of McCoy\", based on an incident in 1900 in which a burning ship, the \"Pyrenees\", had been safely beached on Mangareva. In the story, London has the ship sail past Mangareva and all through the Tuamotus before beaching on Fakarava.\nThe Tuamotus made headlines around the world in 1947, when the Norwegian ethnographer Thor Heyerdahl, sailing from South America with a crew of five others, reached Raroia on his raft \"Kon-Tiki\". The islands were in the news again somewhat later, when France conducted nuclear weapons testing on the atolls of Moruroa and Fangataufa.\nAdministrative divisions.\nFrench Polynesia is a semi-autonomous island group designated as an overseas country of France. The Tuamotus combine with the Gambier Islands to form the \"\u00celes Tuamotu-Gambier\" which is one of the five administrative divisions of French Polynesia.\nThe Tuamotus are grouped into sixteen communes: Anaa; Arutua; Fakarava; Fangatau; Hao; Hikueru; Makemo; Manihi; Napuka; Nukutavake; Puka Puka; Rangiroa; Reao; Takaroa; Tatakoto; and Tureia.\nElectoral divisions.\nThe communes on Tuamotu are part of two different electoral districts (\"circonscriptions \u00e9lectorales\") represented in the Assembly of French Polynesia. The electoral district called \"\u00celes Gambier et Tuamotu Est\" comprises the commune of Gambier and eleven communes in eastern Tuamotu: Anaa, Fangatau, Hao, Hikueru, Makemo, Napuka, Nukutavake, Pukapuka, Reao, Tatakoto, and Tureia. The other five communes in western Tuamotu \u2013 Arutua, Fakarava, Manihi, Rangiroa, and Takaroa \u2013 form the electoral district called \"\u00celes Tuamotu Ouest\".\nGeography.\nDespite the vast spread of the archipelago, it covers a total land area of only about . The climate is a warm tropical one, without sharply distinct seasons. The average annual temperature is a relatively continuous . Water sources such as lakes or rivers are absent, leaving catchments of rain as the only source of fresh water. The annual average rainfall is . Although average rainfall is lowest in September and November, it does not vary markedly throughout the year.\nThe archipelago is geologically highly stable, because it was created by the action of the Easter fracture zone, which is only weakly active. There have been no volcanic eruptions during recorded history.\nFlora and fauna.\nThe sparse soil of the coral islands does not support diverse vegetation. The coconut palm, which is the basis of copra production, is of special economic importance. On a few of the islands, vanilla is also cultivated. Agriculture is generally otherwise limited to simple subsistence. Fruit and vegetable staples include yams, taro, breadfruit, and a wide range of tropical fruit. Pandanus leaves are traditionally woven together to make mats, hats, and roof thatches. However, many of the roofs nowadays are made of corrugated sheet-metal. There are also mangrove forests in sheltered areas, though its less common around coral atolls.\nThe species-rich reefs are home to a diverse range of underwater fauna. The surface creatures are primarily seabirds, insects, and lizards. The Tuamotus have 86 species of birds, ten of which are endemic, including the Tuamotu kingfisher, the Tuamotu reed warbler, and the Tuamotu sandpiper. Thirteen species are globally threatened, and one has gone extinct.\nGeology.\nAll of the islands of the Tuamotus are coral \"low islands\": essentially high sand bars built upon coral reefs. Makatea, southwest of the Palliser Islands, is one of three great phosphate rocks in the Pacific Ocean. (The others are Banaba in Kiribati, and the island nation of Nauru.) Although the Gambier Islands are geographically part of the Tuamotus because they lie at the southeastern extreme of the archipelago, they are geologically and culturally distinct.\nThe ring-shaped atoll Taiaro, which lies in the northwestern portion of the archipelago, is a rare example of a coral reef that has a fully enclosed lagoon. Taiaro has been officially designated a UNESCO biosphere reserve since 1977.\nIsland groups.\nThe Tuamotu archipelago consists of several groups of small islands and atolls:\n&lt;br&gt;\nRelated island groups include three groups. The Acteon Group, which is usually considered culturally and geographically linked to the Tuamotus, is politically part of the Gambier Commune. The three Outer Gambier islands, often considered part of the Tuamotus culturally, but variably geographically linked to either the Tuamotus or Gambiers, is also politically part of the Gambier Commune. Finally, the islets consisting of Mangareva Atoll, as well as Temoe, are considered unquestionably part of the Gambier Islands culturally, geographically, and politically.\nDemographics.\nA little more than fifty atolls are permanently populated; the rest are occupied only sporadically, during the copra harvesting season or as a base for fishing expeditions. The population has grown in the last years due to the fishing boom in the northern part and the extraction of pearls, especially black pearls, in the west and in the center. In any case, most of the inhabitants practice subsistence agriculture.\nIn the 2007 census, there were 15,510 inhabitants in the Tuamotu Islands, a population density of 18 inhabitants/km2. The population was 14,876 in 2002 and 8,100 in 1983. In 2002, 769 inhabitants lived within 400\u00a0km of the islands of Moruroa and Fangataufa (former nuclear test base).\nLanguages.\nThe official language of the archipelago is French. However, the Tuamotu language, Pa'umotu, is recognized as a regional language of the French Republic. In the Gambier Islands, Mangarevan is spoken, while in Puka Puka a Marquesan dialect is used.\nReligion.\nThe majority of the population is Christian, including members of the Catholic Church and various Protestant groups. The Catholic Church administers 42 churches on the islands under the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Papeete.\nIn 1833, the Catholic Church divided the Pacific into two apostolic vicariates: Western Oceania fell to the Marists and Eastern Oceania-which included the Tuamots, Hawaii, Tahiti, the Marquesas and the Cook Islands-was the responsibility of the Picpus missionaries. In 1834, the French Fathers Honor\u00e9 Laval and Fran\u00e7ois d'Assise Caret arrived in Mangareva.\nFirst with the acquiescence and then with the active support of the island chiefs, the Picpusians embarked on an extensive development program for the Gambier Islands. This included the introduction of cotton cultivation, pearl and mother-of-pearl fishing, and the establishment of plantations and orchards. As they were very successful, their missionary activities gradually spread to the other islands of the Tuamotu archipelago. With the missionary work, news of the islands' wealth in pearls also reached Europe, making them a coveted destination for European traders and adventurers.\nEconomy.\nThe islands' economy is predominantly based on subsistence agriculture. The most important sources of additional income are the cultivation of black pearls and the preparation of copra. Tourism-related income remains meager, especially compared to the income generated by tourism in the neighboring Society Islands. Modest tourism infrastructure is found on the atolls of Rangiroa and Manihi, which offer recreational scuba diving and snorkeling destinations.\nThe inhabitants of Tuamotu produce 75% of the copra of French Polynesia. It is a subsidized family activity and the only resource of the atolls farthest from the center and east.\nFishing is a major activity in the atolls closest to Tahiti (Rangiroa, Arutua, Apataki), which supply the central market of Papeete."}
{"id": "761755", "revid": "20381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761755", "title": "Tuamotu", "text": ""}
{"id": "761756", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761756", "title": "Pascale Petit (poet)", "text": "Pascale Petit (born 20 December 1953), is a French-born British poet of French, Welsh and Indian heritage. She was born in Paris and grew up in France and Wales. She trained as a sculptor at the Royal College of Art and was a visual artist for the first part of her life. She has travelled widely, particularly in the Peruvian and Venezuelan Amazon and India.\nPetit has published one novel and nine poetry collections, four of which were shortlisted for the T. S. Eliot Prize. Her seventh collection \"Mama Amazonica\" won the Ondaatje Prize in 2018 and the inaugural Laurel Prize for Poetry in 2020. In 2018, Petit was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.\nCareer.\nPetit has published one novel \"My Hummingbird Father\" (2024) and nine poetry collections: \"Heart of a Deer\" (1998), \"The Zoo Father\" (2001), \"The Huntress\" (2005), \"The Treekeeper's Tale\" (2008), \"What the Water Gave Me: Poems After Frida Kahlo\" (2010), \"Fauverie\" (2014), \"Mama Amazonica\" (2017), \"Tiger Girl\" (2020) and \"Beast\" (2025). She also published a pamphlet of poems \"The Wounded Deer: Fourteen Poems After Frida Kahlo\" (2005). For her work in poetry she has received many awards, including the Cholmondeley Award, four from Arts Council England and three from the Society of Authors. \nPetit was shortlisted for the Forward Best Single Poem Prize after publishing \"The Strait-Jackets\" (from \"The Zoo Father\") and in 2001 she was one of ten poets commissioned by BBC Radio 4 to write a poem for National Poetry Day. \"The Zoo Father\" (2001) was a Poetry Book Society Recommendation. \"The Zoo Father\" (2001), \"The Huntress\" (2005), \"What the Water Gave Me: Poems After Frida Kahlo\" (2010), and \"Fauverie\" (2014) were all shortlisted for the T. S. Eliot Prize. Three books were books of the year in \"The Observer\", \"The Times Literary Supplement\" and \"The Independent\". \"What the Water Gave Me\" and \"Tiger Girl\" were both shortlisted for the Wales Book of the Year. \nPetit's 2017 collection, \"Mama Amazonica\", won the inaugural Laurel Prize for Poetry 2020, the 2018 Ondaatje Prize, was a Poetry Book Society Choice, and was shortlisted for the Roehampton Poetry Prize. Her 2020 collection \"Tiger Girl\" was shortlisted for the Forward Prize for Best Collection.\n\"The Zoo Father\" is published in a bilingual edition in Mexico and distributed in Spain and Latin America. \"Fauverie\" is published by Le Castor Astral in Paris in a bilingual edition. Her books have been translated into Chinese, Serbian, Spanish (in Mexico) and French. She has also translated the poems of a number of contemporary Chinese poets including Yang Lian, Wang Xiaoni and Zhai Yongming. She was Poetry Editor of \"Poetry London\" from 1990 to 2005, a Royal Literary Fund Fellow at Middlesex University from 2007 to 2009 and a Royal Literary Fund Fellow at the Courtauld Institute of Art in 2011\u201312. She tutored poetry courses for Tate Modern for nine years, and currently tutors for the Arvon Foundation, the Poetry School and Literature Wales. The Poetry Book Society selected her as one of the 2004 Next Generation Poets, a promotional listing for spotlighting notable young to middle aged British poets. Petit became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 2018.\nReception.\nThe Australian poet Les Murray has praised her work in \"The Times Literary Supplement\", where he wrote: \"No other British poet I am aware of can match the powerful mythic imagination of Pascale Petit.\" Jackie Kay in \"The Observer\" wrote: \"Pascale's poems are as fresh as paint, and make you look all over again at Frida and her brilliant and tragic life.\" Ruth Padel, reviewing \"What the Water Gave Me: Poems After Frida Kahlo\" in \"The Guardian\" wrote: \"Petit's collection is not a verse biography, but a hard-hitting, palette-knife evocation of the effect that bus crash had on Kahlo's life and work. 'And this is how I started painting. / Time stretched out its spectrum / and screeched its brakes.' WH Auden, in his elegy for Yeats, tells the Irish poet: 'Mad Ireland hurt you into poetry.' Petit's collection, exploring the way trauma hurts an artist into creation, celebrates the rebarbative energy with which Kahlo redeemed pain and transformed it into paint.\""}
{"id": "761759", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761759", "title": "List of songs deemed inappropriate after Sept. 11 by Clear Channel", "text": ""}
{"id": "761764", "revid": "1886677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761764", "title": "Dorney Park", "text": ""}
{"id": "761765", "revid": "8212334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761765", "title": "Josif Pan\u010di\u0107", "text": "Josif Pan\u010di\u0107 (; born Josip Pan\u010di\u0107; April 17, 1814 \u2013 February 25, 1888) was a Serbian botanist, physician, professor and academic. Born in the First French Empire, in present-day Croatia, he earned his medical degree in Hungary before moving to Serbia. He extensively documented the flora of Serbia, and is credited with having classified many species of plants which were unknown to the botanical community at that time. Pan\u010di\u0107 is credited with discovering the Serbian spruce. He is regarded as the father of Serbian botany.\nLife.\nEarly life and studies.\nJosif Pan\u010di\u0107 was born in Ugrine, near Bribir, in the Vinodol region (then part of the Illyrian Provinces of the First French Empire; now in Croatia). Pan\u010di\u0107 was the fourth son of Pavel Pan\u010di\u0107 and his wife Margarita. His paternal grandfather, who came from the area around Ni\u0161, had served in a volunteer battalion of the Austrian Imperial Army during the Austro-Turkish War. According to tradition, the Pan\u010di\u0107 family hailed from Herzegovina and settled in Ugrini in olden times. Some sources claim that Pan\u010di\u0107 was of Bunjevci origin, some describe him as of Croat origin, while some sources describe him as of Serb origin.\nAfter finishing elementary school in Gospi\u0107, he went on to the lyceum in Rijeka, and then continued classes in the \"Regia Academica Scientiarum\" in Zagreb (1830). He graduated in 1842 in Budapest in medicine. In addition to other courses, Pan\u010di\u0107 attended botany courses, taught by the then renowned botany professor, Joseph Sadler (Sadler J\u00f3zsef). Later, recalling those early lectures, he wrote:\nWork.\nWhile studying botany at the Natural History Museum in Vienna, Pan\u010di\u0107 became acquainted with the Serbian linguist Vuk Stefanovi\u0107 Karad\u017ei\u0107 who wrote him a letter of recommendation to the Serbian authorities, to fulfill his wish to settle in the Principality of Serbia to study Nature. In May 1846, he arrived in Serbia where for the first seven years he worked as a physician in rural area. In 1847, he asked to be released from his Austrian citizenship and applied for Serbian citizenship, the same year he met his future wife Lyudmila Mileva.\nIn 1853, he moved from Kragujevac to Belgrade when he was first appointed adjunct professor at Belgrade Lyceum's Department of Natural History and Agronomy by decree of Prince Alexander Karadjordjevi\u0107, before becoming a full-time professor of Natural History and Agriculture in 1854, as decreed by the Ministry of Education of the Principality of Serbia.\nPan\u010di\u0107 was a lecturer at the Great School (the future University of Belgrade), and the first president of the Serbian Royal Academy. As Professor of Natural Sciences, he was one of the six original professors (along with Konstantin Brankovi\u0107, Jovan Sterija Popovi\u0107, \u0110ura Dani\u010di\u0107, Matija Ban, and Dimitrije Ne\u0161i\u0107), of the Lyceum of the Principality of Serbia. He later became rector of the Great School (the future University of Belgrade) and the founder of the Institutes of Mineralogy and Geology, Zoological and Botanical Departments and of the experimental botanical gardens in Belgrade.\nPan\u010di\u0107 extensively documented the flora of Serbia and is credited with having classified many species of plants that were unknown to the botanical community at the time. He discovered a total of 47 valid species new to science. The crowning achievement of Pan\u010di\u0107 floristic studies was the \"Flora of the Principality of Serbia\" () published in 1874, while a supplement was added ten years later. His explorations marked the golden age of Serbia's botany.\nHis most significant discovery was the Serbian Spruce (\"Picea omorika\"), which he discovered near Zaovine on the Tara Mountain in 1875. He firmly established Serbian botany among European sciences. He ascertained that Serbia's flora was rich and worthy of further studies. During the Serbian\u2013Ottoman War (1876\u20131878), he was the Chief Physician of the Belgrade Hospital.\nHe is said to have \"fallen in love\" with Kopaonik, which he visited 16 times between 1851 and 1886.\nPan\u010di\u0107 was named the first president of the Serbian Royal Academy formed on April 5, 1887. He requested the opening of the Botanical garden \"Jevremovac\" in Belgrade.\nPan\u010di\u0107 died on 25 February 1888, his last wish was to be buried in the Kopaonik Mountain.\nLegacy.\nA mausoleum of Josif Pan\u010di\u0107 was erected at the highest peak of Kopaonik in 1951 by the Academy of Science, the University of Belgrade and the Hiking club, with the inscription:\nA research society has been named after him, Josif Pan\u010di\u0107 Biological Research Society (Biolo\u0161ko istra\u017eiva\u010dko dru\u0161tvo \"Josif Pan\u010di\u0107\"). He was depicted on the 10 Dinars note printed in 1994. He is included in The 100 most prominent Serbs. In 1951, the highest point in the Kopaonik mountain range was changed from Milan Peak to Pan\u010di\u0107's Peak.\nOn April 17, 2010, Google celebrated his birthday with a Google Doodle."}
{"id": "761767", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761767", "title": "Kaio Michiru", "text": ""}
{"id": "761768", "revid": "47070250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761768", "title": "Pacific Wings", "text": "Pacific Wings Airline was an American commuter airline headquartered in Mesa, Arizona, United States in Greater Phoenix. The airline operated flights under the brands New Mexico Airlines in New Mexico, GeorgiaSkies in Georgia, TennesseeSkies in Tennessee, and KentuckySkies in Kentucky, as well as under the Pacific Wings name in Hawaii. The airline was closed in 2014.\nHistory.\nThe airline was established and started operations in July 1974 when it was incorporated as Air Nevada, an on-demand charter operator. Scheduled passenger services started in 1978 with the airline operating nonstop flights between Las Vegas and Grand Canyon National Park Airport with Cessna 402 twin prop aircraft. After Eagle Canyon Airlines acquired its network of tour operators, Air Nevada ceased operations in January 1998, changed its operating name to Pacific Wings and continued its scheduled services within Hawaii. It was owned by Greg Kahlstorf (50%) and Frank Ford (50%).\nOn February 1, 2007, the airline began operating flights between Honolulu and Molokai, Honolulu and Lanai, and Kahului and Molokai as PW Express, offering $49 one way fares on every seat on every flight. Service to Kapalua, West Maui began a month later. PW Express service terminated in July 2009 in the wake of Pacific Wings cutbacks following an incident with airport security in Kahului.\nIn May 2013, the airline confirmed reports that it would be ending all flights in Hawaii on June 15, 2013. By the time the reports emerged, the airline had reduced its service to Honolulu, Kahului, Kona, and Molokai; having eliminated flights Hana, Kalaupapa, and Kamuela. By 2014 the airline ceased all operations and was out of business.\nCorporate affairs.\nThe airline was headquartered in Mesa, Arizona in Greater Phoenix.\nThe airline previously had its headquarters in Dallas, Texas. Previously the headquarters were in the Kahului Airport Commuter Terminal in Kahului Airport in Maui, Hawaii.\nSubsidiaries.\nThe following airline divisions of Pacific Wings all used the same call sign of Tsunami, two letter IATA codes (LW), and ICAO 3 letter code \u2013 (NMI). As for FAA DOT regulating purposes they are all the same airline. For marketing purposes, the operations were segmented into various divisions.\nNew Mexico Airlines.\nIn January 2007, the airline applied for Essential Air Service subsidies to serve Clovis and Silver City, New Mexico from Albuquerque, competing with a bid from incumbent operator Great Lakes Aviation, and to serve Hobbs and Carlsbad, New Mexico, competing with a bid from incumbent operator Air Midwest. Pacific Wings has said the airline would serve the routes with Cessna Grand Caravan aircraft, and would aim to wean the routes off subsidy service, as it has done in Hawaii. It would also serve other destinations from Albuquerque without a subsidy.\nIn March 2007, both the Lea County Commission (which oversees the airport in Hobbs) and the Carlsbad City Council voted unanimously to support Pacific Wings' bid to replace Mesa's EAS contract to both airports. In addition to subsidized service to Albuquerque and El Paso, Texas, the airline has also proposed unsubsidized service to Lubbock and Midland-Odessa, Texas and Santa Fe, New Mexico. It was also reported that the airline had withdrawn its bid for service to Silver City after local officials declined to meet with airline representatives. The United States Department of Transportation issued an order selecting Pacific Wings for the Hobbs and Carlsbad service on March 30, 2007. Flights in New Mexico began on July 1, 2007, under the name New Mexico Airlines. The airline had all of its aircraft grounded by the FAA in December 2014 and was able to reinstate some service in early 2015 but completely shut down by May, 2015.\nGeorgiaSkies.\nIn June 2008, Pacific Wings was awarded an EAS contract for service to Athens Benn Epps Airport, Georgia and Middle Georgia Regional Airport in Macon, Georgia. The airline began operating flights from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta under the name GeorgiaSkies using Cessna Grand Caravan aircraft on September 29, 2008. However, as of January 2013, GeorgeSkies reportedly no longer flies between Macon and Atlanta, although GeorgiaSkies has a press release stating that \"GeorgiaSkies has been ordered to\ncontinue serving the City until a replacement carrier can be found.\" For a brief period Macon was without air service as the replacement carrier Sun Air International was unable to begin operations on the slated date. Eventually, Silver Airways began EAS service to Macon.\nTennesseeSkies/KentuckySkies.\nIn mid-2009 Pacific Wings was awarded a contract to provide EAS service from Jackson, Tennessee and Owensboro, Kentucky. Marketed as TennesseeSkies in Jackson and KentuckySkies in Owensboro, flights from both cities would be offered to Nashville, Tennessee with some flights continuing to Atlanta, Georgia. Service began on August 30, 2009. On June 30, 2011 Pacific Wings filed with the United States Department of Transportation a 90-day notice of its intent to terminate service effective September 30, 2011 saying it is \u201cunable to procure counter or gate space at Nashville International Airport on reasonable terms.\u201d The DOT prohibited the airline from suspending service until a replacement carrier began service. Eventually replacement carriers were procured (Cape Air in Owensboro and SeaPort Airlines in Jackson) and TennesseeSkies/KentuckySkies ceased operation in early 2012.\nSt. Louis, Missouri operation.\nFor the year 2013, Pacific Wings had received the EAS contract to serve Burlington, Iowa, Decatur, Illinois, and Jonesboro, Arkansas from St. Louis, Missouri replacing Air Choice One.\nIncidents and Accidents.\nOn July 12, 1993, when the airline was still known as Air Nevada, a Cessna 402C with registration N818AN crashed after takeoff from McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas, Nevada. The flight was destined for the Grand Canyon, but after liftoff the pilot advised the air traffic controller that the baggage door was open and requested to return to the airport for landing. The pilot and both passengers on board were killed. The National Transportation Safety Board determined the probable cause of the accident to be the pilot's failure to maintain adequate airspeed while maneuvering in the traffic pattern, with the pilot's failure to assure that the nose baggage compartment door was secured as an additional factor.\nIncidents with Airport Security.\nAfter several videotaped incidents in 2005, Pacific Wings accused the security firm Wackenhut of harassment.\nThe first known recorded incident reported in the media happened in October 2005, after the President of the airline and one of his employees were attacked by Wackenhut Security Manager \"Butch\" Tam Ho in an airport conference room during a meeting in which Pacific Wings requested to bring repeated incidents of harassment by Wackenhut personnel to the attention of airport management. The airline President and his employee were then placed under citizen's arrest by Wackenhut personnel and held for hours without being Mirandized or allowed access to a telephone. The airline executive was knocked unconscious during the event, and his employee suffered a facial fracture. Neither the Pacific Wings President nor the employee were ever charged by prosecutors with any crime, and both arrest records were expunged six months after the incident. Tam Ho was indicted on two counts of witness tampering by a federal Grand Jury in May 2008. The case went to trial in early 2009, and on October 16, 2009, Tam Ho was found not guilty on all counts due to a legal technicality involving whether Tam Ho's admitted assault was done under color of law.\nOn November 14, 2005, another employee was accosted by another Wackenhut Security Guard while unloading supplies at the same airport. The employee videotaped the entire incident. On the videotape clip repeatedly broadcast in local media, the guard is shown threatening to kill the employee with a sidearm, shoving and cursing at the employee, and spitting on the employee. The guard, Eric Brown, was arrested by Maui Police and charged with terroristic threatening. Brown was later banned from working on any state property or facility.\nOn July 8, 2009, Pacific Wings temporarily suspended its Hawaii operations a day after an alleged confrontation between airline employees and Securitas airport police attempting to deliver a citation to Gabe Kimbrell, the airline's president and chief operations officer, in connection with a fuel spill and alleged improper storage of fuel in the airline's Kahului hangar the previous month. The airline resumed flights two days later, announcing that it was reducing service to just three routes, completely eliminating service to Kona and increasing ticket prices.\nFleet.\nThe Pacific Wings fleet was composed of single engine Cessna 208B Grand Caravan aircraft. Prior to the acquisition of the Cessna 208, the airline operated a fleet of twin engine Cessna 402 aircraft."}
{"id": "761769", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761769", "title": "Sizzla", "text": "Miguel Orlando Collins (born 17 April 1976), known by his stage name Sizzla Kalonji or Sizzla, is a Jamaican reggae musician. He is one of the most commercially and critically successful contemporary reggae artists and is noted for his high number of releases. As of 2018 he has released 56 solo albums.\nBiography.\nSizzla was born in St. Mary, Jamaica, to devout Rastafarian parents. Like them, Sizzla subscribes to the Bobo Ashanti branch of the Rastafari movement. He was raised in August Town, Kingston, Jamaica where he studied mechanical engineering at Dunoon High School.\nCareer.\nSizzla began to develop his own style whilst serving his musical apprenticeship with the Caveman Hi-Fi sound system. He has used his music as a vehicle for his message, kickstarting his recording career in 1995 with a release through the Zagalou label, he then teamed up with \"Bobby Digital\" Dixon for a series of singles. Extensive touring with fellow Xterminator label mate roots and culture artist Luciano followed, earning Sizzla notoriety\nHomer Harris, the same man who named and mentored Buju Banton got him his first break, introduced Sizzla to top Jamaican saxophonist Dean Fraser, the musical director for Philip \"Fatis\" Burrell's Xterminator Family. 1995 marked an important turning point for Sizzla when he began working with Fattis. This union led to a run of successful singles and the release of Sizzla's debut album, \"Burning Up\".\nThe two allied again a year later with the follow-up, \"Praise Ye Jah\" (JetStar). \"Praise Ye Jah\" was quickly trumped by his release of the Dixon-produced \"Black Woman &amp; Child\" that same year. The title track was a smash hit and became something of a cultural reggae anthem. Sizzla scored several more hits during 1997, including \"Like Mountain,\" \"Babylon Cowboy,\" \"Kings of the Earth,\" and the Luciano duet \"Build a Better World\". This hot streak kicked off an enormously productive recording binge that lasted over the next several years, with much of his output still done for Burrell.\nAlong with universal praise came Sizzla's first nomination for Best International Reggae Artist of the Year at the 1998 MOBO Awards and a place in various magazines' top 100 albums of the year. Sizzla has since released several dozen albums, including 1998's \"Kalonji\" and \"Royal Son of Ethiopia\" from 1999. 1999 also saw him receive his second MOBO nomination. Sizzla remains a constant presence in the reggae charts worldwide. Currently, Sizzla has 21 albums that have made it onto the Billboard's Top Reggae Albums music chart, the highest \"Words of Truth\", reaching the peak position of No. 5.\nSizzla Kalonji has released over 45 solo albums and over fifteen combination albums, crossing different genres of Reggae. He has started his own record company, Kalonji Records; which in a joint venture with Damon Dash Music Group and Koch Records, released the album, \"The Overstanding\", in November 2006. This was his third album released through Kalonji Records; as well as \"Black History\" and \"Life\".\nSizzla, along with reggae recording artists such as Capleton, Norris Man, Turbulence, Buju Banton, and Anthony B, are credited with leading a movement toward a re-embracement of Rastafarian values in contemporary reggae music by recording material which is concerned primarily with spirituality and social consciousness, explores common themes, such as Babylon's corrupting influence, the disenfranchisement of ghetto youth, oppression of the black nation and Sizzla's abiding faith in Jah and resistance against perceived agents of oppression.\nSizzla's 2008 effort, \"Ghetto Youth-ology\", is produced by the Firehouse Crew, the same who produced Sizzla's debut, \"Burning Up\".\nIn 2013 he released the album \"The Messiah\". In January 2014 it was nominated for a Grammy Award, his first nomination. In 2014 Sizzla was featured in the song and video for Stephen Marley's single \"Rock Stone.\"\nHis sons Raheem Collins and Melech Collons have followed him into a career in music, working under the name Reemus k and Skorcha.\nIn August 2025, Jamaican reggae artist Sizzla Kalonji was honored at the Lauderhill Performing Arts Center in Florida, where he received the Key to the City of Lauderhill from Mayor Denise Grant and a special citation from the United States Congress. The recognition was part of Jamaica\u2019s 63rd Independence celebrations in South Florida and acknowledged Sizzla\u2019s three decades of contribution to reggae music, his role in promoting Rastafarian culture, and his wider impact as a cultural ambassador within the Jamaican diaspora and beyond.\nJudgement Yard.\nJudgement Yard was established as a community centre in August Town, an eastern suburb of Kingston, Jamaica, by Sizzla Kalonji. Although Judgement Yard is an organisation of sorts, it is also a geographic location at 41 August Town Road, which is where Sizzla maintains one of his residences. Judgement Yard is also the home of Kalonji's state of the art studio, as well as his record label, Kalonji Records. As the owner and founder of the Yard, Kalonji is responsible for many youths in the community of August Town, as well as youths who come from other areas to seek assistance and guidance in life as well as music. He is an influence to many. Many of these same youths who are members of Judgement Yard fraternity are musicians or have some direct affiliation with the music through production works, artiste works, etc.\nSizzla has recorded songs with the prominent artists in Judgement Yard, Joseph Shepherd, Bobo David and G-Mac.\nZimbabwe.\nIn February 2010, Sizzla travelled to Zimbabwe to perform at the 86th birthday celebration of former Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe. There was a near-riot during his performance, including beatings of crowd members by police, causing Sizzla to temporarily halt his performance and ask the police to cease the beatings.\nLater that year, Sizzla was \"rewarded\" with a farm in the country, with the artist stating he was \"here to stay\" in Zimbabwe. He also voiced plans to begin an agro-business and build a recording studio in the country.\nThe moves were not without controversy, particularly among Mugabe detractors who insisted he not perform for the President. Sizzla refused to condemn Mugabe post-performance, while insisting the land he received was not a reward from the Zimbabwean government, but given to him by the local people in appreciation for his performance. He also stated plans to eventually make Zimbabwe his permanent home.\nMotorcycle accident.\nOn 24 August 2011, Sizzla was hit by a bus while riding his motorcycle along the Salem main road, near Runaway Bay in St. Ann, Jamaica, leading to many false reports of the singer's death. He resumed recording by the beginning of the following year. In October 2019, he was yet again involved in another motorcycle accident and was hospitalized for a broken ankle.\nControversy.\nSizzla has faced backlash due to the anti-gay lyrics in some of his recordings, causing the cancellation of many international concert events.\nIn 2004, he was barred from entering the United Kingdom for several concerts. OutRage!, a British LGBT rights group alleged that some of Sizzla's songs contain lyrics that advocate violence against LGBT people. In 2007, Sizzla's concerts in Toronto and Montreal were canceled after protests from Stop Murder Music Canada coalition. Kalonji's song titled, \"Nah Apologize\", was recorded in 2004. In 2008 his visa was cancelled, preventing him from entering Germany after performing half of his tour and he was sent back to the United States. Sizzla maintains his stance that he is an artist using his creative expression and freedom of speech but will speak out against injustice where he sees it. In 2009 and 2010 several concerts in Germany were cancelled after public protests against the concerts. In 2012 concerts were cancelled in Madrid (Spain), Ghent, Belgium, Stockholm, Sweden and Lisbon, Portugal after public protests. Kalonji Muzik issued a statement after the cancellations that he abides by the laws of every country that he performs in and is not trying to invoke or incite violence against anyone."}
{"id": "761770", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761770", "title": "National Anthem of Finland", "text": ""}
{"id": "761775", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761775", "title": "Harry Crews", "text": "Harry Eugene Crews (June 7, 1935 \u2013 March 28, 2012) was an American novelist, short story writer, and essayist. He often made use of violent, grotesque characters and set them in regions of the Deep South.\nLife.\nHarry Crews was born June 7, 1935, during the Great Depression to two poor tenant farmers in Bacon County, Georgia. His father died while he was still a baby, and his mother soon remarried to his father's brother. Crews was unaware that this man was not his biological father until years later.\nAs a child, he suffered two near-death experiences. When he was just five he contracted polio, causing his legs to fold up into the back of his thighs. He was originally told by doctors that he would not be able to walk again. After about a year of being immobile, except crawling with his hands, his legs straightened again and he was able to walk. Soon after this experience, he then fell into a vat of nearly boiling water, which was being used for soaking dead hogs before they were further prepared. His head did not go under the water, which saved his life, according to doctors. He suffered extreme burns on most of the rest of his body. He once again was unable to leave the bed when he was healing. Crews wrote in \"A Childhood: The Biography of a Place\": \"Nearly everybody I knew had something missing, a finger cut off, a toe split, an ear half-chewed away, an eye clouded with blindness from a glancing fence staple. And if they didn't have something missing, they were carrying scars from barbed wire, or knives, or fishhooks.\" These experiences later influenced the freakish characters he wrote about, although he did not like to use the term \"freak\" to describe them.\nWhile Crews was still a child, his mother left his stepfather, and he and his brother went with her to live in the Springfield section of Jacksonville, Florida. Crews finished high school there as a below average student. After graduation, he joined the Marines during the Korean War. After his service, he attended the University of Florida on the G.I. Bill. Here, Crews became a student of Andrew Nelson Lytle, who had also taught Flannery O'Connor, and James Dickey. Crews and Lytle kept in contact for years afterwards, and Lytle provided criticism of Crews's early work.\nAfter an unplanned pregnancy, Crews married Sally Ellis, who gave birth to his first son, Patrick Scott. Sally soon wanted a divorce due to his infidelity and obsessiveness with writing. \"I was obsessed to the point of desperation with becoming a writer,\" he wrote, \"and, further, I lived with the conviction that I had gotten a late start toward that difficult goal\u2026Consequently, perhaps I was impatient, irritable, and inattentive toward Sally as a young woman and mother.\" However, he soon convinced Sally to remarry, and they had a second son, Byron Jason. \nCrews graduated from the University of Florida with a degree in English, and eventually received a graduate degree of education. Crews then began teaching English, which he continued to do for the rest of his career, along with his career as a writer. In 1963, he had his first story published: \"The Unattached Smile\". In 1964, he published another short story, \"A Long Wail\".\nIn 1964 his first son, Patrick, drowned in a neighbor's pool. Crews tried to perform mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, but this proved ineffectual. After the death of his son, Crews continued writing his first novel, \"The Gospel Singer\", which appeared in 1968. Just after this publication, another came for his second novel, \"Naked in Garden Hills\". Both were well received by critics at the time. In 1972, Sally asked for a second and final divorce. Crews did not marry again. His sole surviving son, Byron Jason Crews, is personal representative and acting executor of the Harry Crews Literary Estate.\nWriting career and style.\nAfter Crews's first two novels, he wrote prolifically, including novels, screenplays and essays, for journals including \"Esquire\" and \"Playboy\". He often set precise due times to finish whatever he was working on, and so had quick turnaround between writings. Once he published \"The Gospel Singer\", he began to write eight novels, publishing one almost every year. Much of Crews's work is now out of print.\nHis works were known to feature \"freaks\", and \"outcasts\", usually from rural areas. In \"Car\", a man consumes an entire car by slowly eating piece by piece. In \"The Knockout Artist\", a poor, Georgia-born boxer with a glass jaw knocks himself out at parties for money. \"A Feast of Snakes\", one of his best known, and most provocative novels, was banned for a time in South Africa. \nCrews felt strongly that authors should write about experiences that they have actually had. In his personal life, he often moved from obsession to obsession, and became knowledgeable on many subjects. Crews and Sally learned karate together, which then influenced \"Karate Is a Thing of the Spirit\". In addition, \"The Hawk is Dying\" features an amateur hawk trainer who deals with condescension from college professors, and features a son-figure who drowns. Crews himself had a fascination with hawks for a period of time, and even trapped and trained them so they would sit on his arm. \"Body\" is a story about a competitive female body builder, her trainer, and her lower-class family from Waycross, Georgia. Crews himself trained his girlfriend, Maggie Powell, who would become a Southeast bodybuilding champion. \nDuring his time writing for \"Esquire\", he wrote a column called \"Grits\" for fourteen months in the 1970s that covered such topics as cockfighting and dog fighting. Filled with rough experiences he had outside of urban life, \"grits\" became a term he used to describe the tough southern characters featured in his writing.\nCrews continued writing and publishing his entire life. As his reputation grew, he became a favorite of Madonna, Sean Penn, Kim Gordon, and Thurston Moore. Madonna and Penn discussed making film adaptations of his novels, but these never came to fruition. Crews's final novel, \"An American Family\", featured a blurb on the cover from Moore, saying, \"God bless Harry Crews, America's best writer. He\u2019ll break your heart but he'll always bring you love.\"\nThe University of Georgia acquired Crews's papers in August 2006. The archive includes manuscripts and typescripts of his fiction, correspondence, and notes made by Crews while on assignment.\nCrews died on March 28, 2012, from complications of neuropathy. His sole surviving son, Byron J. Crews, is professor emeritus of English and Dramatic Writing at Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio.\nInfluence and Grit Lit.\nHarry Crews's work has become synonymous with the genre grit lit. Crews is considered a major influence, alongside Flannery O\u2019Connor, Cormac McCarthy, and Barry Hannah, along with later writers in the genre including Larry Brown, Dorothy Allison, and Donald Ray Pollock. Grit Lit is usually set in rural areas and often in what has been called the \"Rough South\". Larry Brown, one of the most celebrated writers in the genre, objected to the term \"Grit Lit\", but he dedicated his novel, \"Fay\", to Crews, calling him \"my uncle in all ways but blood.\" He and Crews remained friends until Brown's death in 2004. \n\"Grit Lit: A Rough South Reader\", defines the genre as \"typically blue collar or working class, mostly small town, sometimes rural, occasionally but not always violent, usually but not necessarily Southern.\" The subjects of the stories often have to deal with extreme circumstances for survival. The characters usually use their roughness, depravity, and violence as a means of living. Crews's work has become synonymous with the \"Rough South,\" though he did not like the label \"Southern writer\". Grit Lit itself can become an \"acquired taste\", for those not from the South. \nHarry Crews's experiences as a poor boy from Bacon County, Georgia, have made a major impact on his own stories. Many other Grit Lit writers are from working-class backgrounds as well, and use their experiences as a tool for writing their stories with accuracy. Crews has said, \"A writer's job is to get naked, to hide nothing, to look away from nothing, to look at it. To not blink, to not be embarrassed by it or ashamed of it. Strip it down and let's get to where the blood is, where the bone is.\"\nBibliography.\nUnpublished works.\nThere are a number of unpublished works in the author's archive at the University of Georgia, Athens. The whereabouts of \"The Wrong Affair\" is not known. \"Assault of Memory\" is the follow-up to \"A Childhood: the Biography of a Place\" and certain parts were published in literary journals, whereas some parts required a signed permission from the author to view in the archive."}
{"id": "761776", "revid": "4928500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761776", "title": "Criticism of Prem Rawat", "text": ""}
{"id": "761777", "revid": "6326132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761777", "title": "Tijuana River", "text": "The Tijuana River () is an intermittent river, 120\u00a0mi (195\u00a0km) long, near the Pacific coast of northern Baja California state in northwestern Mexico and Southern California in the western United States. The lower reaches of the river are heavily polluted with raw sewage from the city of Tijuana, Mexico.\nLocation.\nThe Tijuana River drains an area along the U.S.\u2013Mexico border, flowing through Mexico for most its course then crossing the border into Southern California for its lower 5\u00a0mi (8\u00a0km) to empty into the ocean at the Tijuana River Estuary on the southern edge of San Diego. The region straddles the Mediterranean climate and semi-arid climate zones, so the Tijuana River and its tributaries often go dry in times of drought.\nThe Tijuana River has two main tributaries. One, the Arroyo de Alamar or Rio Alamar, runs in its upper reaches in the United States as Cottonwood Creek. It runs from its source in the Laguna Mountains southwestward where it is impounded by two dams, Barrett and Morena, to supply water to the city of San Diego. Cottonwood Creek is joined by the Tecate Creek before it enters Mexico where it is known as the Arroyo de Alamar from the point where it enters Mexico to its confluence with the larger tributary, the Arroyo de las Palmas, that forms the headwaters of the Tijuana River within the city.\nThe Arroyo de las Palmas, the main tributary of the Tijuana River, flows out of the mountains to the east into the reservoir behind the Abelardo L. Rodr\u00edguez Dam. Downstream from the Rodr\u00edguez Dam, water flows through Tijuana in a concrete channel to the international border; there it continues west through the Tijuana River Valley for a distance of about nine miles to the estuary and then to the Pacific Ocean.\nIts lower reaches provide the last undeveloped coast wetlands in San Diego County amidst a highly urbanized environment at the southern city limits of Imperial Beach. The river has been the subject of great concern regarding pollution, flood control, and U.S. border protection.\nDescription.\nThe Tijuana River rises in the Sierra de Ju\u00e1rez of northern Baja California, approximately 45\u00a0mi (70\u00a0km) ENE of Ensenada. It flows WNW through Tijuana, crossing the border approximately 5\u00a0mi (8\u00a0km) from the Pacific. It flows west, just skirting the international border south of the San Ysidro section of San Diego. The lower 2\u00a0mi (3\u00a0km) of the river form the broad mud flat estuary, and the Tijuana River Estuary is a rich habitat for wildlife, including over 370 species of birds; one of these species is the Ridgway's rail. It is Southern California's largest coastal wetland. It is naturally prone to flooding during heavy rains. The Tijuana River enters the Pacific 10\u00a0mi (15\u00a0km) south of downtown San Diego at the southern city limits of Imperial Beach.\nThe river is an intermittent river, flowing naturally only during rains. The river is impounded in Mexico southeast of Tijuana by the Abelardo L. Rodr\u00edguez Dam for drinking water and irrigation. Former Baja California Governor Milton Castellanos Everardo constructed concrete barriers along the riverbank to prevent flooding during his tenure. The United States was supposed to build a complementary system of barriers to ensure flooding waters didn't flow back into Mexico, but instead adopted a dissipator flood control plan under the direction of the San Diego City Council, supported by ecologists, which preserved the estuary, which was then designated a wildlife sanctuary.\nThe majority of its watershed is within Mexico, between Mesa de Otay to the east, and hills to the west.\nConservation.\nFlooding.\nFlooding in the Tijuana River had been a concern for both the United States and Mexico because it would lead to sewage runoff and would ultimately cause property damage to the surrounding area. In 1944, the United States-Mexico Water Treaty was signed, this dealt with \"utilization of waters in the Colorado and Tijuana rivers and of the Rio Grande.\" This treaty appointed the International Boundary and Water Commission to handle several issues such as border sanitation. The IBWC went on to create the Tijuana River Flood Control Project in 1966 in order to create a flood control channels along the river. Mexico had completely complied by 1976 while the U.S. implementation stalled due to opposition at the local level. Despite preventive measures, flooding in 1980 caused 11 deaths and property damage in bordering cities. Flooding due to high rainfall and sewage blockage continues to be a concern that endangers surrounding areas because of the wastewater pollution found in the river.\nNature reserves.\nThe Tijuana River National Estuarine Research Reserve protects and studies the Tijuana River Estuary. It was established as part of the National Estuarine Research Reserve system in the United States. The reserve is managed in part as a Biological Field Station by the San Diego State University (SDSU) College of Sciences, which also protects part of the estuary near the ocean within the United States.\nThe Tijuana Slough National Wildlife Refuge is part of the San Diego National Wildlife Refuge Complex, and is also within the Estuarine Research Reserve. The Tijuana Slough Refuge protects one of southern California's largest remaining salt marshes without a road or railroad trestle running through it. Designated as a Globally Important Bird Area by the American Bird Conservancy, over 370 species of birds have been sighted on the refuge. Salmon have been recorded in the past in the river during runs.\nWastewater.\nThe river has been used as a wastewater conduit since at least the early 20th century. Raw-sewage overflows on the Mexican side, from canyons along the river, are a recurring problem despite cross-border efforts to clean it up. In fact, they are the main source of pollution. In addition to sewage, trash is carried downstream causing damage to vegetation and contributing to flooding.\nThe first attempt to deal with sewage flowing into the Tijuana River was the creation of the International Outfall, a marine outfall, which was completed in 1939, but was proven to be inadequate as early as the late 1940s. By the 1950s, there were over 4 million gallons of sewage flowing into the river each day. Following a threat by the San Diego County's health officer, Mexico began to treat its sewage with chlorine. Usage of the outfall ended in 1962 due to the completion of a pumping plant, which discharged untreated sewage into the Pacific Ocean; the pumping plant broke down in 1975. In the 1960s an emergency link from Tijuana into the San Diego Water System was created, by the mid-1980s it was taking in about 15 million gallons a day of sewage. During the 1970s, up to ten million gallons of sewage entered the river each day from Tijuana.\nIn 1980, Brian Bilbray, as Mayor of Imperial Beach, dammed the river with a skip loader to block the flow of sewage crossing the border. Partial progress was made in the 1980s with a Clean Water Grant from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to improve wastewater treatment, by creating the San Diego-Tijuana Wastewater Treatment Plant to protect estuary waters. In 1988, the river was found to be the most polluted river on the Mexico\u2013United States border. In April 1990, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency found lead and mercury in the waters of the Tijuana River watershed that exceeded multiple times U.S. standards, prompting fears of outbreaks of malaria and encephalitis. That same year in 1990, Mexico agreed to pay $41 million of the $192 million to construct the plant. The plant was completed in 1997. Water from the plant is discharged more than three miles offshore, but does not meet levels required by the Clean Water Act due to the lack of secondary treatment. Finished in January 2011, the plant received a $93 million upgrade. Other sewage that would have flowed into the Tijuana river is treated at the Punta Banderas treatment plant; it handles 30 million gallons of sewage a day. However, its discharge doesn't meet Mexican water standards, sometimes causing closure of beaches as far north as Coronado.\nSince 1993, the City of San Diego has renewed a state of emergency for the Tijuana River Valley due to ongoing issues with the Tijuana River. According to a 1993 report by the city of San Diego, the city had collected an average of 13 million gallons (50 million liters) per day of raw sewage, that then was treated by the Point Loma wastewater treatment plant; this is down from 20 million gallons per day in 1997 being treated by the city of San Diego, which it had received from Tijuana. Since 1998 the U.S. EPA has funded $42 million on sewage projects in Tijuana. In 2014, the \"San Diego Reader\" described the river as one of the most polluted parts of San Diego, with the beaches near the mouth of the river closed for 204 days in 2013. In 2015, the amount of sewage treated on a dry day remained the same, at 13 million gallons. However, when it rains, the amount of sewage can increase to 27 million gallons per day, and the pump which funnels water to the treatment plant is shut off so it isn't overcome. Even when the flow is low, toxins, metals, solvents, pathogens, and sewage, end up becoming dust that can be breathed in and cause medical problems.\nIn January 2017, the Punta Banderas treatment plant, officially known as San Antonio de los Buenos plant, treated 15 million gallons of sewage a day to standards below U.S. secondary-level standards, pumping the water out into the Pacific Ocean at La Playa. Yet, in 2017, it was found by Proyecto Fronterizo de Educacion Ambiental that the release from the plant exceeded Mexico's minimum federal standards on bacterial levels. While Tijuana's sewage capture rate of 90% exceeds the Mexican national average of 50%, Roberto Espinosa of CILA is quoted as saying \"Tijuana is a complex city, and it has a sanitary system that has never kept pace with the increase in population,\". Due to the sewage in the river, it has been called \"one of the most polluted waterways in the country\". This has led to a multitude of beach closures in Imperial Beach. Each year the beach at Border Field State Park is closed for 233 days.\nIn February 2017, over 143 million gallons of sewage entered the river, larger than the usual few million gallons of sewage that is routine. Later, the amount of was revised upwards to over 200 million gallons. However, a Mexican water official claimed the spill was only 30 million gallons. The spill is the largest to occur in over ten years. The sewage spill was not initially reported by Mexican officials, but was noticed by residents on the South Bay coast. The impact of the spill affected waters as far north as Coronado, and was described by Imperial Beach Mayor Serge Dedina as \"a tsunami of sewage\", and \"deliberate\". According to the International Boundary Water Commission, the sewage discharge was due to a repair of a sewer pipe near Rio Alamar. The sewage was first noticed in the middle of the month. Repairs of the sewer pipe were completed in late February 2017, but the exact dates when the sewage began and stopped entering the river were unknown as of March 2017, leading to calls for an investigation. By mid-March 2017, the California Department of Environmental Health found the water quality had returned to within health standards, opening beaches up to Coronado. In mid 2017, Border Patrol agents reported sewage flowing into the Tijuana River from Smuggler's Gulch, and Goat and Yogurt Canyons. In all of 2017, beaches near the Tijuana River were closed for 167 days.\nIn February 2018, following the shutting off of a CILA pump station, a 15 million gallon sewage spill entered the Tijuana River. In March 2018, Customs and Border Protection began to search for solutions to the sewage issue, after more than six dozen Border Patrol agents were negatively impacted by their contact with sewage in the Tijuana River Valley; this included taking water and soil samples to assess the contamination levels which exist in waters and areas around the Tijuana River watershed. In March 2018, a bi-partisan delegation of San Diego County's members of the United States House of Representatives wrote a letter to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of State, to investigate cross-border sewage spills. In April 2018, an earthen berm was constructed at the border across the Tijuana River, to stop sewage from flowing into the United States. In July 2018, environmental groups from Mexico and the United States made a criminal complaint regarding dumping of sewage into the Tijuana River against the state of Baja California. For a week in December 2018, 6-7 million gallons of sewage flowed into the Tijuana River due to a failure of a sewage main in Tijuana.\nIn early 2019, following seasonal storms sewage from the Tijuana River flowed out of the Tijuana River Estuary, leading to beach closures in South Bay, San Diego. In February 2019, testing revealed significant pollutants flowing northward from Tijuana including DDT, hexavalent chromium, pathogens, and carcinogens. In March 2019, the continuing sewage issue was highlighted by a story appearing in \"Vice News\", where it was referred to as an \"environmental disaster\". In mid 2019, it was proposed that all water flowing northward on the Tijuana River be diverted and processed at the San Diego-Tijuana Wastewater Treatment Plant. By late June, over of sewage had spilled into the Tijuana River in 2019. In early September 2019, an additional of contaminated water flowed into the Tijuana River, leading to continued beach closures. In early February 2020, over of sewage flowed into the Tijuana River.\nFor decades citizens from both San Diego and Tijuana have fallen sick due to the sewage flowing into local beaches. The most recent data showed that over 34,000 people in 2017 got sickened by the pollution and sewage in Imperial Beach according to a study that a University of California San Diego professor did. An estimated 13 billion gallons of polluted water from the Tijuana River have entered the oceans since Dec. 28, 2022, according to a UCSD statement. For years, public health officials say they have sampled beach waters of south San Diego County for fecal microbes, getting counts as an indicator for pathogens such as enterococcus, E. Coli, salmonella and MRSA. Exposure to such germs and viruses may lead to diarrhea, vomiting, fever, headaches, respiratory illness, infections, rashes and meningitis. From 2018 to 2024, more than of wastewater have flowed from Mexico into the United States via the Tijuana River according to the International Boundary and Water Commission.\n2018 lawsuits.\nIn March 2018, due to sewage in the Tijuana River, Chula Vista, Imperial Beach, and the Port of San Diego sued the International Boundary and Water Commission. In response to the lawsuits, Mexico pledged $4.3 million towards Tijuana River cleanup; part of these funds will be used to replace deteriorating pipe in Tijuana that parallels the Tijuana River, which if it fails could release 4 million gallons of sewage a day into the river. In May 2018, California and the San Diego Regional Water Quality Control Board also created a lawsuit against the International Boundary and Water Commission for sewage in the Tijuana River. In July 2018, Surfrider Foundation made an additional lawsuit regarding sewage in the Tijuana River. In August 2018, Judge Jeffrey T. Miller ruled that lawsuits based on the Clean Water Act could proceed, but that lawsuits based on the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act would be dismissed. In January 2019, the City of San Diego joined the lawsuit against the International Boundary and Water Commission.\n21st-century water improvement agreements.\nOver 30 federal, local, state, private and other interested groups want to develop binational long-term goals to address wastewater treatment and debris-related improvements. One major initiative, introduced in the United States on March 16, 2015, was Resolution R902015-0035, a Five-Year Action Plan that aimed to implement restorative projects over the span of five\u00a0years. The resolution was initially introduced by the Tijuana River Valley Recovery Team (TRVRT), whose ultimate goal is to progress and implement strategies originally introduced in January 2012, under the Tijuana River Valley Recovery Strategy regulatory measures. Other restorative measures across the U.S. include grants like the Community-based Marine Debris Removal Grant that brings organizations together in conjunction with community-based cleanups to remove trash and debris from the Tijuana River Valley. The debris removal grant began in 2014 and successfully removed over 400 tons of debris by 2016. A binational discussion on July 28, 2016, established upcoming proposed projects between the Border 2020 Tijuana River Watershed Task Force and the Tijuana River Valley Recovery Team. These discussions continue the national environmental resolutions agreement under the 1983 La Paz Agreement that acknowledges the environmental and social responsibility of each country near its border regions. Under this treaty, each country is under agreement to conserve, protect, and improve border regions for the overall well-being of the coinciding countries.\nIn 2020, the United States\u2013Mexico\u2013Canada Agreement was ratified providing $300,000,000 for abating water pollution in the Tijuana River. A significant amount of the money will be spent on improving the International Boundary Wastewater Treatment Plant. In addition, funding was increased to the North American Development Bank, to funding environmental projects elsewhere on the Mexico\u2013United States border.\nCrime.\nThe construction of the Mexico\u2013United States barrier in the area around and crossing the Tijuana River, began with construction of a fence made of Marston Mat in 1989, followed by construction of a secondary fence beginning in 1996. Due to the fences, the amount of illegal entry into the United States along the border south of the Tijuana River has been significantly reduced.\nDuring the Mexican drug war in June 2006, the severed heads of three Rosarito Beach police officers were found in the Tijuana River.\nAreas of the Tijuana River canal are home to individuals described as \"\u00f1ongo\". In March 2015, a homeless encampment was removed from the Tijuana River canal, some of whom had previously been deported from the United States; a year later, some of those who had been removed from the Tijuana River canal had returned and began to live in tunnels which drain into the canal. Tijuana is a major resettling location for Mexicans deported from the United States, with some living on the Tijuana River canal. A 2016 study found that the Tijuana River Canal was a known site for where people inject drugs. In 2018, more than 20 bodies were found in or near the Tijuana River, on the Mexico side.\nRecreation.\nParks.\nThe Tijuana River Valley Regional Park is located in the Tijuana River Valley district of San Diego. It protects over , including dense riparian forests along the Tijuana River. It has an extensive system of trails for walking and equestrian access. In early 2019, construction of a campground within the regional park was approved at an expected cost of $8.3 million. As of April 2021, the campground is active and offers sites for tent campers, RVers, and yurts.\nSurfing.\nThe mouth of the Tijuana River is the location of the Tijuana Sloughs big-wave surfing break, which is a mile off shore. Winter waves can be as high as 12 feet or greater; 20-foot-high waves are not unknown to occur. Surfing has been occurring at the slough since at least 1937, when Allen Holder began to surf there. It has been described as the \"gold standard\" in Southern California, with surfers using it as a training ground for surf found in Hawaii. Surfing at the Tijuana Sloughs is written to be similar to surfing at Saunder's Reef.\nSurfing at the sloughs has impacted the evolution of surfing culture, as well as regional culture. Lifeguards have watched over the area since 1939. Sewage from the river impacts water quality, which can lead to surfers becoming ill; one source describes that area as \"virtually unsurfable due to pollution\"."}
{"id": "761778", "revid": "45364314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761778", "title": "Anthony Buckeridge", "text": "Anthony Malcolm Buckeridge (20 June 1912 \u2013 28 June 2004) was an English author, best known for his \"Jennings\" and \"Rex Milligan\" series of children's books. He also wrote the 1953 children's book \"A Funny Thing Happened\" which was serialised more than once on \"Children's Hour\".\nHe was awarded the OBE in 2003.\nPersonal life.\nBuckeridge was born in Hendon in Middlesex, the son of Ernest George Buckeridge and his wife, Gertrude Alice (formerly Smith), but, following the death of his bank secretary father in World War I, he moved with his mother to Ross-on-Wye to live with his grandparents. Following the end of the war they returned to London where the young Buckeridge developed a taste for theatre and writing. A scholarship from the Bank Clerks' Orphanage fund permitted his mother to send him to Seaford College boarding school which, at the time, was located at Corsica Hall in Seaford, East Sussex. His experiences as a schoolboy there were instrumental in his later work.\nFollowing the death of Buckeridge's maternal grandfather, the family moved to Welwyn Garden City where his mother worked in promoting the new suburban utopia to Londoners. In 1930 Buckeridge began work at his late father's bank but soon tired of it. Instead he took to acting including an uncredited part in Anthony Asquith's 1931 film \"Tell England\".\nAfter marrying his first wife, Sylvia Brown, he enrolled at University College London where he involved himself in Socialist and anti-war groups (he later became an active member of CND) but did not take a degree after failing Latin. With a young family to support, Buckeridge found himself teaching in Suffolk and Northamptonshire which provided further experiences to influence his later work. During World War II Buckeridge was called up as a fireman and wrote several plays for the stage before returning to teaching at St Lawrence College, Ramsgate.\nHe used to tell his pupils stories about the fictional Jennings (based, however, on an old schoolfellow Diarmaid Jennings), a prep schoolboy boarding at Linbury Court Preparatory School, under headmaster Mr Pemberton-Oakes.\nIn 1962, he met his second wife, Eileen Selby. They settled near Lewes where Buckeridge continued to write and also appeared in small (non-singing) roles at Glyndebourne.\nBuckeridge died on 28 June 2004 after a spell of ill health. He is survived by his second wife Eileen and three children, two from his first marriage.\nWorks.\nAfter World War II Buckeridge wrote a series of radio plays for the BBC's \"Children's Hour\" chronicling the exploits of Jennings and his rather more staid friend, Darbishire; the first, \"Jennings Learns the Ropes\", was first broadcast on 16 October 1948. In 1950, the first of more than twenty novels, \"Jennings Goes to School\", appeared. The tales make liberal use of Buckeridge's inventive schoolboy slang (\"fossilised fish hooks!\", \"crystallised cheesecakes!\", and others). These books, as well known as Frank Richards' Billy Bunter books in their day, were translated into a number of other languages. The stories of middle-class English schoolboys were especially popular in Norway where several were filmed.\nThe Norwegian books and films were rewritten completely for a Norwegian setting with Norwegian names; Jennings is called \"Stompa\" in the Norwegian books.\nMore recently, the first four books were published in an omnibus edition by Prion, \"The Best of Jennings: Four Utterly Wizard Adventures All Jolly Well Complete and Unabridged\" (2010). In 2011, six titles were produced as unabridged audio books.\nReception.\nBuckeridge made no small contribution to postwar British humour, a fact acknowledged by such comedians as Stephen Fry. The deftly-worded farce and delightful understatement of his narratives has been compared to the work of P. G. Wodehouse, Ben Hecht and Ben Travers.\nJennings novels.\nThe \"Jennings\" series is a collection of humorous novels of children's literature. There are 24 in total. The first, \"Jennings Goes to School\" (), appeared in 1950 and new titles were published regularly until the mid-1970s (the last for fourteen years was \"Jennings at Large\" in 1977, the only book to feature Jennings during the school holidays), with two more in the 1990s (\"Jennings Again\" in 1991 and \"That's Jennings\" in 1994). As well as the name change to Stompa in Norway, in France \"Jennings\" was changed to Bennett and in Germany to Freddy.\nThe novels usually followed a format of three major subplots per 16-chapter novel, the early books being derived from the popular BBC radio series on \"Children's Hour\". All 62 of the original radio play scripts have been published in 10 volumes by David Schutte: Jennings Sounds the Alarm 1999; Jennings Breaks the Record 2000; Jennings Joins the Search Party 2001; Jennings to the Rescue 2002; Jennings and the Roman Remains 2002; Jennings and the Tricky Predicament 2003; Jennings and the Organised Outing 2004; Jennings and the Christmas Spirit 2004; Jennings and the Key to the Mystery 2004; and Jennings and the Unconsidered Trifles 2004.\nRex Milligan.\nRex Milligan is a fictional character created by Anthony Buckeridge, and is the eponymous schoolboy hero of a series of five books set in the mid 20th century. The school that he attends is a grammar school named Sheldrake Grammar School in North London. The stories are presented in first person narrative, in contrast to the Jennings series. The final book is a compilation of 16 stories first published in the best-selling \"Eagle\" comic.\nOther works.\nAs well as the standalone 1953 children's book \"A Funny Thing Happened\", Buckeridge also wrote a serial, 'Liz', for the BBC Radio 4 children's omnibus programme '4th Dimension', broadcast in 6 parts in May and June 1974."}
{"id": "761779", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761779", "title": "Kage Baker", "text": "Kage Baker (June 10, 1952 \u2013 January 31, 2010) was an American science fiction and fantasy writer.\nBiography.\nBaker was born and raised in Hollywood, California, and lived in Pismo Beach later in life. Before becoming a professional writer she spent many years in theater, including teaching Elizabethan English as a second language. Her unusual first name (pronounced like the word \"cage\") is a combination of the names of her two grandmothers, Kate and Genevieve. Baker had Asperger syndrome.\nShe is best known for her \"the Company/Dr. Zeus, Inc.\" series of historical time travel science fiction. Her first stories were published in \"Asimov's Science Fiction\" in 1997, and her first novel, \"In the Garden of Iden\", by Hodder &amp; Stoughton in the same year. Other notable works include \"Mendoza in Hollywood\" (novel, 2000) and \"The Empress of Mars\" (novella, 2003), which won the Theodore Sturgeon Award and was nominated for a Hugo Award.\nIn 2008, she donated her archive to the department of Rare Books and Special Collections at Northern Illinois University.\nIn 2009, her short story \"Caverns of Mystery\" and her novel \"House of the Stag\" were both nominated for World Fantasy Awards; neither piece won.\nIn January 2010, it was reported that Baker was seriously ill with cancer. She died from uterine cancer on January 31, 2010, in Pismo Beach, California.\nIn 2010, Baker's \"The Women of Nell Gwynne's\" was nominated for a Hugo Award and a World Fantasy Award in the Best Novella categories. On May 15, 2010, that work was awarded the 2009 Nebula Award in the Best Novella category.\nKage spent much of the last year of her life watching and reviewing silent films. Many of her reviews were collected posthumously into \"Ancient Rockets: Treasures and Trainwrecks of the Silent Screen\" (2011), edited by her sister Kathleen Bartholomew. From the foreword:\nBaker left an unfinished novel, \"Nell Gwynne's On Land and At Sea\", which was completed by her sister Kathleen Bartholomew based on extensive notes left by Baker, and was published in 2012."}
{"id": "761780", "revid": "35313544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761780", "title": "Soloveitchik rabbinic dynasty", "text": "The Soloveitchik dynasty of rabbinic scholars and their students originated the Brisker method of Talmudic study, which is embraced by their followers in the Brisk yeshivas. It is so called because of the Soloveitchiks' origin in the town of Brisk, or Brest-Litovsk, located in what is now Belarus. Many of the first Soloveitchik rabbis were the official rabbis of Brisk, and each in turn was known as \"the Brisker Rov\". Today, Brisk refers to several yeshivas in Israel and the United States founded by members of the Soloveitchik family, including the yeshivas of rabbis Avraham Yehoshua Soloveitchik and Dovid Soloveitchik.\nThe Soloveitchik dynasty.\nThe Soloveitchik family includes many significant rabbinical forebears, such as Simcha Rappaport and Chaim of Volozhin, Talmudist and founder of the Volozhin yeshiva. Chaim of Volozhin was a student of the Vilna Gaon.\nThe Beis HaLevi.\nThe Soloveitchik dynasty began with Rabbi Yosef Dov Soloveitchik, known as the \"Beis HaLevi\" (1820\u20131892), who served as rabbi of Brisk for much of his life and pioneered aspects of what would become known as the Brisker method of Talmud study. His works on the \"Mishneh Torah\" and first five books of the Torah which he authored were titled \"Beis HaLevi\" (Hebrew for \"House of the Levites\"). Many people therefore refer to him simply as the Beis HaLevi, which also avoids the confusion with two of his prominent great-grandsons who shared the same full name: (1) Rabbi Moshe Soloveichik's son, Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik (1903\u20131993) who moved to the United States; and (2) Rabbi Yitzchak Zev Soloveitchik's son, Rabbi Berel Soloveitchik, who lived in Israel.\nSoloveitchik succeeded Rabbi Yehoshua Leib Diskin as rabbi of Brisk when the latter moved to Jerusalem in 1876. He had previously served as the rabbi of Slutzk, and before that, on the faculty of the Volozhin yeshiva.\nRabbi Chaim Soloveitchik.\nThe \"Beis HaLevi\" was succeeded as rabbi of Brisk by his son, Rabbi Chaim Soloveitchik (1853\u20131918), most commonly known as \"Reb Chaim Brisker\" (Rabbi Chaim from Brisk). He is credited as the founder of the Brisker method of Talmudic study, an analytic method focusing on precise definitions and categorizations of Jewish law. His primary work was \"Chidushei Rav Chaim HaLevi\", a volume of insights on the \"Mishneh Torah\" which often would suggest novel understandings of the Talmud as well. His wife, the granddaughter of Rabbi Naftali Tzvi Yehuda Berlin, served as his entree to teaching at the Volozhin yeshiva. He had three sons, Yitzchak Zev, Moshe and his eldest, Yisroel Gershon.\nRabbi Yitzchok Zev Soloveitchik.\nRabbi Yitzchok Zev Soloveitchik (1886\u20131959) became known as \"The Brisker Rov\" when he succeeded his father as rabbi of Brisk. He was often known by the name \"Velvel\", a Yiddish nickname for \"little wolf\". (\"Zev\" is Hebrew for \"wolf\".) He is also commonly known as the \"GRYZ\" or \"HaGRYZ,\" an acronym for (Ha)Gaon Rabbi Yitzchak Zev (\"[the] genius Rabbi Isaac Wolf\"). He became famous enough that many people, however, refer to him simply as \"der Brisker Rov\" (\"the rabbi of Brisk\"). In fact, many in the Brisker yeshiva world in Israel refer to him simply as \"The Rov\". (In the Modern Orthodox community, his nephew, Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik, is referred to as \"the Rav\".)\nLike his father, Rabbi Yitzchok Zev Soloveitchik published works based on the \"Mishneh Torah\", often suggesting novel insights on the Talmud in the process. He fled the Holocaust and moved to the British Mandate of Palestine. His children and grandchildren live in Israel today, and have founded several yeshivas there, all known as \"Brisk\", based in Jerusalem.\nRabbi Meshulam Dovid Soloveitchik.\nRabbi Meshulam Dovid Soloveitchik (known as Reb Dovid) was the son of Rabbi Yitzchak Zev Soloveitchik. He was rosh yeshiva of Yeshivas Brisk in the Gush Shemonim section of Jerusalem. Like his father and grandfather he published works based on Mishnah Torah, and many of his lectures have been published by his students. He was considered by Briskers to be one of the last authentic remnants of a pre-World War II Jewish Lithuania. His students include Moshe Twersky, Rebbi in Yeshivas Toras Moshe and Rabbi Yitzchok Lichtenstein Rosh Yeshiva of Yeshiva Torah Vodaas, both grandsons of his cousin Rabbi Joseph Ber Soloveitchik. He died on January 31, 2021, in Jerusalem, Israel.\nRabbi Berel Soloveitchik.\nRabbi Berel Soloveitchik, commonly known simply as \"Reb Berel,\" was one of the leading Brisker Rosh Yeshivas in Jerusalem, Israel. He was the son of Rabbi Yitzchak Zev, the Brisker Rav, and the cousin of Rabbi Joseph Ber Soloveitchik. His son, Rav Avrohom Yehoshua, succeeds him as Rosh Yeshiva of Brisk in Jerusalem.\nRabbi Meir Soloveitchik.\nRabbi Meir Soloveitchik was the son of Rabbi Yitzchak Zev Soloveitchik and headed one of the Brisker Yeshivas in Jerusalem, which was attended by many Torah scholars, including the current Radziner Rebbe, Grand Rabbi Moshe Leiner. He should not be confused with Rabbi Meir Soloveichik, the son of Rabbi Ahron Soloveichik's son Rabbi Eliyahu Soloveichik. He died at the age of 87 on April 2, 2016. his yeshiva is now headed by his son Rabbi Yechiel Soloveitchik together with his brother Rabbi Avrohom Soloveichick and another yeshiva by his son Reb Velvel and his brother\nRabbi Velvel Soloveitchik II.\nRabbi Yitzchok Zev \"reb Velvel\" Soloveitchik is the son of Rav Meshulam Dovid, as well as his successor as Rosh HaYeshiva of Yeshivas brisk. He carries the name of his grandfather, The Brisker Rov.\nRabbi Moshe Soloveichik.\nRabbi Chaim Soloveitchik's other famous son was Rabbi Moshe Soloveichik (1879\u20131941). His works on the Rambam are known as the \"Chiddushei HaGram haLevi \" and \"Chiddushei haGram ve'haGrid.\" He served as the Rabbi of Rasseyn and then of Chaslavich. He then moved to Warsaw where he served as rosh yeshiva of Tachkemoni Rabbinical Seminary. He moved to America in 1929 and was appointed as a rosh yeshiva at Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS). (While RIETS has at no point ever called itself a \"Brisk yeshiva\" per se, it was home for many decades to Rabbi Moshe Soloveichik and later his sons.) His sons were the famous Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik, who lived in Boston and commuted to teach Talmud at Yeshiva University in Manhattan; Dr. Samuel Soloveichik, a chemist as well as a Talmudic scholar; and Rabbi Ahron Soloveichik, who taught at Mesivta Rabbi Chaim Berlin and then at Yeshiva University. Rav Ahron founded and was the rosh yeshiva of Yeshivas Brisk in Chicago, Illinois.\nRabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik.\nRabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik (1903\u20131993) was a son of Moshe Soloveichik. In 1941, he succeeded his father as the senior Rosh Yeshiva of RIETS in New York. As he rose to become an important leader of Modern Orthodox Jewry, he ordained more than 2,000 rabbis over the course of almost half a century thereby strengthening his status as \"The Rav\"\u2014as he was 'the rabbis's rabbi'.\nHe established Maimonides School as one of the first Jewish day schools outside the New York area in 1937 after arriving in Boston with Tanya Levitt Soloveitchik in 1935 to be the mara d'atra of the greater Boston Jewish community. Maimonides maintains many of the Rav's radical educational posits including co-education and female Talmud study. He is often credited with being a primary founder of Modern Orthodoxy, a movement of Judaism which maintains that Jews must both practice a Halakhic life without shunning the outside world. He also gave much needed validity to the Zionist effort in his famous work \"Kol Dodi Dofek\". Although he was primarily known as a Talmudist, his best-known works of \"Lonely Man of Faith\", \"Catharsis\", \"Halachic Man\", and \"Uvikkashtem Misham\" are largely philosophical.\nRabbi Ahron Soloveichik.\nRabbi Ahron Soloveichik (1918\u20132001) was a son of Rabbi Moshe Soloveitchik. He taught at Mesivta Rabbi Chaim Berlin and then at Yeshiva University. He eventually moved to Chicago and became rosh yeshiva at the Hebrew Theological College and in 1974 founded his own yeshiva Yeshivas Brisk of Chicago. After his brother Joseph became ill, beginning in 1986 he began to commute to New York City to lecture at RIETS as well. Rabbi Ahron Soloveichik died in 2001, and Yeshivas Brisk of Chicago became defunct a few years later as a Mesivta but remains active today as a Beth Medrash under Rabbi Ahron's eldest son, Rabbi Moshe Soloveichik. His grandchildren include Rabbi Shmuel Marcus, philosopher Rabbi Dr. Meir Soloveichik, and political analyst Nechama Soloveichik. Rabbi Dr. David Applebaum was considered one of his most outstanding and devoted disciples."}
{"id": "761781", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761781", "title": "R\u00edo Tijuana", "text": ""}
{"id": "761782", "revid": "35874198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761782", "title": "Ron Kuby", "text": "Ronald L. Kuby (born July 31, 1956) is an American criminal defense and civil rights lawyer, radio talk show host, and television commentator. He has hosted radio programs on WABC (AM) in New York City and Air America radio.\nKuby has defended many high-profile criminal cases, ever since his early career as a colleague of the activist William Kunstler. Kuby leads the Law Office of Ronald L. Kuby in Manhattan.\nEarly life and education.\nKuby was born in Cleveland, Ohio, the son of Ruth Miller, a secretary, and Donald Kuby, a salesman. His mother was from a Jewish family and his father, who died in 1990, was a Franciscan friar who converted to Judaism and became a militant Zionist before becoming Christian again. Kuby's parents divorced when he was five years old, after which he lived with his mother and grandparents. At 13, he joined the Jewish Defense League under the influence of his father, who was a follower of Meir David Kahane. As a teenager, Kuby emigrated to Israel, but returned to the U.S. after being disillusioned by what he describes as \"anti-Arab racism\".\nHe returned to Cleveland and lived in a commune for the next several years. In 1973, he briefly attended an accredited alternative high school. After graduating, he attended Cleveland State University for one year.\nKuby dropped out of college in 1974 and moved to St. Croix, in the U.S. Virgin Islands, where he worked on a tugboat and developed an interest in West Indian ethnobotany and medicinal plants. He moved briefly to Maine, then to Kansas in 1975, where he completed his degrees in cultural anthropology and history at the University of Kansas. Kuby was a free-speech and anti-apartheid activist while at KU, where he graduated with highest distinction, had a 4.0 average, and conducted and published original fieldwork, including the 1979 \"Folk medicine on St. Croix: an ethnobotanical study\", after returning to St. Croix several times. Kuby alleged the University of Kansas police intentionally broke his arm when they responded to an anti-apartheid protest during a commencement ceremony. Protesters were urging the KU Endowment Association to divest itself of investments in companies doing business in South Africa.\nKuby earned his Juris Doctor from Cornell Law School in 1983. Kuby said his grades entitled him to a position on the prestigious \"Cornell Law Review\", but he declined the invitation. He also said to have graduated as one of the top students in his class.\nPersonal life.\nOn January 23, 2006, Kuby married Marilyn Vasta, a psychotherapist and climate activist, on the 20th anniversary of their first date. They have one daughter, Emma Vasta-Kuby, who is a lawyer with the D.C.-based Second Look Project, working on de-incarceration.\nPartnership with William Kunstler.\nWhile in college, Kuby interned with William Kunstler, a senior lawyer with 20 years' experience, notable for many of his sensational cases including the defense of the Chicago Seven. From 1983 until Kunstler's death in 1995, Kuby worked as an unofficial partner in Kunstler's law firm, with both men taking up \"the fight for the poor, the oppressed and the downtrodden\". The two men declared they were not only colleagues, but best friends as well.\nKunstler and Kuby never formalized a partnership with a contract or tax filings. Despite a letterhead that read \"Kunstler and Kuby\", Kuby was paid as an employee and never shared in the firm's profits and losses. On this basis, Kuby was denied ownership rights to the firm's case files, accounts, and name after Kunstler died, and Kunstler's widow, Margaret Ratner, put her late husband's archives under lock and key. Kuby filed a complaint against her with the attorney disciplinary committee; the committee dismissed the complaint in August 1996. In December 1996, a court case brought by Ratner to restrain Kuby from using the name \"Kunstler &amp; Kuby\" resulted in Kuby's being denied any rights in the Kunstler firm.\nNotable cases.\nWith Kunstler.\nKuby, with Kunstler, represented many high-profile defendants:\nTom Manning and Richard Williams, who would be convicted for killing New Jersey State Trooper Philip J. Lamonaco on December 21, 1981.\nGregory Lee Johnson, a protester who burned a U.S. Flag at the 1984 Republican National Convention.\nSheikh Omar Abdel-Rahman, the blind cleric who headed the Egyptian-based militant group Al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, accused of planning and encouraging terrorist attacks against Americans.\nColin Ferguson, the man responsible for the 1993 Long Island Rail Road shooting (who chose to represent himself at trial).\nNico Minardos, the Hollywood TV and movie actor, accused in an FBI sting operation of conspiracy to ship arms to Iran.\nQubilah Shabazz, the daughter of Malcolm X, accused of plotting to murder Louis Farrakhan of the Nation of Islam.\nGlenn Harris, a New York City public school teacher who absconded with a 15-year-old girl for two months.\nYu Kikumura, a member of the Japanese Red Army, and associate of the Gambino Crime Family.\nDuring the Gulf War, Kunstler and Kuby represented American soldiers claiming conscientious objector status. They also represented El Sayyid Nosair, assassin of the rabbi Meir Kahane whom Kuby's father had admired, and the leftist radical turned health-care activist Dr. Alan Berkman.\nAfter Kunstler's death.\nAfter Kunstler's death, Kuby continued the work of his late mentor. In 1996, he won a judgment of $43\u00a0million for Darrell Cabey against Bernhard Goetz in connection with the 1984 New York City Subway shooting. Kuby also won nearly a million dollars for members of the Hells Angels motorcycle club who were wrongfully arrested by the New York City Police Department. He secured a reversal of a murder conviction for a mentally ill homeless man whose candle accidentally caused the death of a firefighter. Kuby represented the appeal of Yusef Salaam, whose conviction in the 1989 Central Park jogger case was overturned in 2002, and who went on to be elected to the New York City Council. In 2005, Kuby won close to a million dollars for another wrongfully convicted man who spent eight years in prison.\nIn 2006, Kuby was subpoenaed by the defense to testify at the second trial of John A. Gotti, the son of Gambino crime family leader John Gotti, which included charges for the kidnapping and attempted murder of Curtis Sliwa, Kuby's talk radio co-host at the time. Kuby testified that in a 1998 conversation, Gotti said he had wanted to leave organized crime. \"He told me he was sick of this life\", Kuby told the court. \"He wanted to rejoin his family and be done with this.\" Sliwa reacted angrily to his longtime co-host's testimony for the defense, calling him a \"Judas\", though Kuby was following the law by answering a subpoena to testify.\nIn April 2009, Kuby spoke about the capture of Abduwali Muse, a Somali teenager apprehended during the rescue of Richard Phillips, the Captain of the MV \"Maersk Alabama\", a freighter briefly captured by Somali pirates. Kuby said he was discussing organizing a team to defend Muse, suggesting he was invalidly captured while immunized by a flag of truce.\nIn September 2009, Kuby appeared on behalf of Ahmad Wais Afzali, an imam facing multiple charges in a terrorism-related case. Afzali had told Najibullah Zazi that authorities were asking questions about him. Kuby won Afzali's release on bail and negotiated a plea bargain to a reduced charge of lying to agents, with deportation in lieu of imprisonment.\nIn 2010, Kuby defended Raphael Golb, the son of a biblical scholar. Golb had sent emails wherein he impersonated critics of his father and falsely admitted committing various defamatory acts, including academic fraud; he was arrested in 2009. Charged with multiple felonies and misdemeanors, Golb was convicted at trial and appealed to New York's Supreme Court, which affirmed the charges. Golb then appealed to the New York Court of Appeals, the highest court in New York State. They dismissed some of Golb's convictions, such as identify theft and aggravated harassment (striking down the latter as unconstitutionally vague and overbroad), but they upheld others, including criminal impersonation and forgery.\nStarting in 2000, Kuby began working to exonerate innocent prisoners in non-DNA cases. He won the 2001 release (followed by a combined $3.3\u00a0million judgment) for Anthony Faison and Charles Shepherd, who served close to 14 years for a murder they did not commit. The actual killer was subsequently caught and plead guilty. In 2008, Kuby exonerated Michael Clancy, an elevator mechanic wrongfully convicted of murder in the Bronx. Clancy served 13 years. The actual killer was subsequently indicted, having been named by a federal informant, but was not prosecuted successfully due to the Bronx DA's wrongful conviction of Clancy. In 2013, Kuby won the exoneration of Thomas Green, serving 35 years for child sexual assault and rape. All of the prosecution's evidence was proved to be false, and Green was released after five years. His time in the prison system left him with undiagnosed and untreated cancer; he died two weeks after his release. In 2013, Kuby took on the case of Johnny Hincapie, wrongfully convicted in the infamous Brian Watkins subway murder case. After 25 years in prison, Hincapie was exonerated.\nIn 2015, Kuby secured the exoneration of Shabaka Shakur, who served 27 years of a 40 to life sentence for two murders that he did not commit. Shakur began his case \"pro se\" in 2012, and Kuby agreed to represent him \"pro bono\" later that year. The evidence against Shakur consisted largely of an uncorroborated confession allegedly given to Detective Louis Scarcella. Kuby had faced Scarcella in 1996 in the high-profile \"Money Train\" case. Scarcella's testimony in that case led Kuby to believe that the much-decorated detective perjured himself and suborned perjury through witness manipulation. The judge who exonerated Shakur found there was a reasonable likelihood that Scarcella had fabricated the confession.\nExonerations in two other Scarcella cases quickly followed, based upon Scarcella's misconduct. Jabbar Washington was freed in July 2017 after 20 years in prison, as a result of a joint investigation with Kuby and the Brooklyn DA's Conviction Review Unit. Sundhe Moses, who spent almost 20 years in prison for another high-profile murder, was exonerated after extensive hearings concluded in January 2018. In October 2020, Kuby and the CRU exonerated another innocent man, Gerard Domond, who spent 27 years behind bars due to the prosecution's withholding of crucial exculpatory evidence. On July 15, 2022, one of Scarcella's biggest cases, the \"Money Train\" murder, was overturned and charges dismissed against three men, Thomas Malik, Vincent Ellerbe, and James Irons, all of whom served over two decades in prison. The exonerations were the culmination of almost ten years of re-investigation by Kuby and the CRU. In January 2023, a Brooklyn judge vacated a murder conviction against Kareem Mayo, who had served 23 years of a 25 to life sentence, along with his cousin, Donnell Perkins (represented by Joel Rudin). The decision followed six months of hearings on newly discovered evidence.\nIn keeping with Kunstler's tradition of representing political defendants, often subjected to show trials, Kuby and associate Rhiya Trivedi represented Patricia Okoumou, who famously climbed the Statue of Liberty on July 4, 2018, protesting family separation policies of the Trump Administration. Kuby and Trivedi also represented the environmental lawyer Steven Donziger in his 2021 trial for criminal contempt for failing to turn over sensitive materials to Chevron Corporation.\nRadio and television personality.\nFrom 1999 to 2007, Kuby and Curtis Sliwa co-hosted a daily radio show titled \"Curtis and Kuby in the Morning\" on WABC (AM), in New York City. After an eight-year run, WABC replaced the show with Don Imus and retained Sliwa. Kuby and Sliwa then shared a short-lived midday television program on MSNBC. Kuby began broadcasting on Air America Radio in 2008, at first as a replacement for Randi Rhodes, then later with a regular show, \"Doing Time with Ron Kuby\". In May 2009 Air America moved Kuby's show to a new time slot, which took him off of the schedule for many affiliates. By June, his show was removed from Air America's schedule.\nOn January 2, 2014, \"Curtis and Kuby\" returned to WABC in the 12\u20133pm (Eastern) timeslot. He was released from WABC in late May 2017 for budgetary reasons.\nKuby is a frequent pundit and substitute anchor on Court TV and has appeared several times on the Discovery Channel program\" Oddities\", offering legal advice.\nOn May 16, 2008, he was interviewed on the WBGO program \"Conversations with Allan Wolper\". Kuby discussed how the media sometimes convicts criminal suspects in the court of public opinion.\nUnlike defense lawyers who usually suppress specifics about their residence, family, and habits, Kuby agreed in 2012 to be featured in the weekly \"New York Times\" \"Sunday Routine\" photo report on prominent or colorful New Yorkers.\nKuby was featured in the 2019 podcast \"The Ballad of Billy Balls\", which dealt with the murder of William Heitzman at the hands of the NYPD in June 1982."}
{"id": "761784", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761784", "title": "Rio Tijuana", "text": ""}
{"id": "761785", "revid": "22482780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761785", "title": "Pepys Island", "text": "Pepys Island is a phantom island, once said to lie about north of the Falkland Islands at 47\u00b0S. Pepys Island is now believed to have been a misidentified account of the Falkland Islands.\nOriginal identification.\nIn December 1683 the British corsair William Ambrose Cowley, master of the \"Bachelor's Delight\", a ship of 40 guns proceeding on a circumnavigation of the globe, discovered at a latitude stated as 47\u00b0S a previously uncharted and unpopulated island in the South Atlantic which he named \"Pepys Island\", for Samuel Pepys, Secretary to the Admiralty. His companion on the voyage, William Dampier, considered the sighting to be the \"Sebaldinas Islands\", an alternative name at the time for the Falklands. Cowley's log entry reads:\nThere is a later manuscript elaborating the log entry:\nLater attempts to locate the island.\nThe original official historian of record, Pedro de Angelis, wrote in 1839 that this was so far north of the Falklands it was \"absurd\" to think that an experienced navigator could have made such an error as to put himself four degrees of latitude more northerly, and in high summer. Many expeditions attempted unsuccessfully to locate the island during the eighteenth century. These included: Lord Anson (1740\u20131744 voyage), Commodore Byron (1764), Captain Cook (both voyages), Joseph Banks and Daniel Solander (1769), Antoine-Joseph Pernety (1763\u20131764), Louis de Bougainville (1763-1769 voyages), Jean-Fran\u00e7ois de Galaup, comte de Lap\u00e9rouse (1785, searching for \"The Great Island\") and George Vancouver (1790-1795 voyages, also searching for \"The Great Island\"). In the reports of Byron, Cook and Bougainville all found themselves in thick sargasso with large flocks of birds overhead. They were searching 80 to 85 leagues both east of the Patagonian coast and north of the Falklands (from 1630\u20131840 a Spanish league measured three nautical miles) and these may be considered sure signs of the proximity of land. La P\u00e9rouse mentioned the seaweed and identified the flocks of birds as albatross and petrels which never approach land except to lay their eggs.\nIn conclusion to his 1839 introduction to the work of reference, Pedro de Angelis noted that the report of a mercantile master returning to Montevideo from the Falklands came to the attention of the Spanish Minister, who consulted with Don Jorge Juan, head of the Department of the Navy. They identified Pepys Island as being synonymous with Puig, a phantom island sought by the French and known as \"the Great Island\". This was based on three documents: Cowley's sketch, Puig Island as sketched by the mercantile captain and a plan \"of unimpeachable provenance\" which he does not name. De Angelis concluded: \"In view of the explicit statements made by those who have actually visited the island, those who deny its existence lack authenticity.\"\nThe modern editor of the work of reference, Professor Pesatti, dissents from Pedro de Angelis, particularly on the basis of Cowley's sketch, a document which unfortunately he fails to produce in evidence: \"The description of the island coincides in almost all details to the Falklands, and a sketch map by Cowley represents exactly the alignment of these islands with the central strait which divides them.\""}
{"id": "761786", "revid": "20855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761786", "title": "Pepys' Island", "text": ""}
{"id": "761788", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761788", "title": "The Blob", "text": "The Blob is a 1958 American science fiction horror film directed by Irvin S. Yeaworth Jr. from a screenplay by Theodore Simonson and Kate Phillips, based on an idea by Irving H. Millgate. It stars Steve McQueen (in his first leading role) and Aneta Corsaut and co-stars Earl Rowe and Olin Howland.\nThe film concerns a carnivorous amoeboidal alien that crashes to Earth from outer space inside a meteorite, landing near the small communities of Phoenixville and Downingtown, Pennsylvania. It envelops living beings, growing larger, becoming redder in color and more aggressive, eventually becoming larger than a building.\n\"The Blob\" was released on September 10, 1958 by Paramount Pictures as a double feature with \"I Married a Monster from Outer Space\" (1958).\nPlot.\nIn a small Pennsylvania town in July 1957, teenager Steve Andrews and his girlfriend Jane Martin kiss at a lovers' lane when they see a meteorite crash beyond the next hill. Steve goes looking for it but Barney, an old man living nearby, finds it first. When he pokes the meteorite with a stick, it breaks open and a small jelly-like globule blob inside attaches itself to his hand. In pain and unable to scrape or shake it loose, Barney runs onto the road, where he is nearly struck by Steve's car. Steve and Jane take him to Doctor Hallen.\nDoctor Hallen anesthetizes the man and sends Steve and Jane back to locate the impact site and gather information. Hallen decides he must amputate the man's arm since it is being phagocytosed. Before he can, the Blob completely absorbs Barney, then Hallen's nurse Kate, and finally the doctor himself, growing redder and larger with each victim. Steve and Jane return in time for Steve to witness the doctor trying to escape through the window with the Blob covering him. They go to the police station and return with Lieutenant Dave Barton and Sergeant Jim Bert, but they find no sign of the Blob nor its victims. The skeptical Bert dismisses Steve's story as a prank. Steve and Jane are taken home by their parents, but they sneak out later.\nThe Blob absorbs a mechanic at a repair shop. During a midnight screening of \"Daughter of Horror\" at the Colonial Theater, Steve recruits Tony and his friends to warn people about the Blob. When Steve notices that his father's grocery store is unlocked, he and Jane go inside to investigate. The janitor is nowhere to be seen. The couple is quickly cornered by the Blob and they seek refuge in the walk-in freezer. The Blob oozes under the door but quickly retreats. Steve and Jane gather their friends and set off the town's fire and air-raid alarms. The responding townspeople and police still refuse to believe them. The Blob enters the Colonial Theater and envelops the projectionist, then oozes into the auditorium. Steve is finally vindicated when screaming people flee the theater in panic.\nSteve, Jane and her kid brother Danny are trapped in a diner, along with the owner and a waitress, as the Blob\u2014now enormous from the dozens of people it has consumed in the theater\u2014engulfs the building. Lieutenant Dave taps into the diner's telephone with his police radio and warns those in the diner to shelter in the cellar before the police bring down a live power line onto the Blob.\nDave and Bert plan to electrocute the Blob by felling an overhead high-voltage power line. It discharges a massive electric current into the Blob, which is unaffected, but the diner underneath is set ablaze. When the diner's owner uses a carbon dioxide fire extinguisher on the approaching fire inside, Steve notices that the Blob recoils. Steve remembers it also retreated from the freezer and realizes it cannot tolerate cold temperatures. Shouting, in hopes of being picked up on the open phone line, Steve tells Dave about the Blob's vulnerability to cold. The firemen have a limited supply of fire extinguishers. Jane's father, high school principal Henry Martin, leads Steve's friends to break into the school to retrieve its extinguishers. When they return, a brigade of fire extinguisher-armed students, firemen and police drive the Blob away from the diner, freeing the five trapped there. They surround and freeze the Blob.\nDave requests authorities send an Air Force heavy-lift cargo aircraft to transport the frozen Blob to the Arctic. Dave realizes that the cold will stop the Blob \"as long as the Arctic stays cold\", but it won't kill it. Parachutes bearing the Blob on a pallet lower it onto an Arctic ice field with the superimposed words \"The End\" morphing into a question mark.\nProduction.\nThe film was the first production of Jack Harris, a film distributor from Philadelphia, and was reportedly inspired by a discovery of star jelly in Pennsylvania in 1950. It was originally titled \"The Molten Meteor\" until producers overheard screenwriter Kay Linaker refer to the film's monster as \"the blob\". Other sources give a different account, saying the film went through a number of title changes (the monster was called \"the mass\" in the shooting script) before the makers settled on \"The Glob\". After hearing that cartoonist Walt Kelly had used \"The Glob\" as a title for his Pogo children's book, they mistakenly believed they couldn't use that title, so they changed it to \"The Blob\". Although the budget was set at $120,000, it ended up costing only $110,000.\nThe film was the second feature directed by Irvin Yeaworth. Filmed in and around Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, principal photography took place in the summer of 1957 at Valley Forge Studios. Several scenes were filmed in the towns of Chester Springs, Downingtown, Phoenixville and Royersford, including the basement of a local restaurant that is currently named Downingtown Diner. For the diner scene, a photograph of the building was put on a gyroscopically operated table onto which cameras had been mounted. The table was shaken and the Blob rolled off. When the film negative was printed in reverse, it appeared to be oozing over the building. \"The Blob\" was filmed in color and projected at a 1.66 ratio (then known as the \"Paramount format\").\nSteve McQueen received $3,000 for his starring role. He turned down an offer for a smaller up-front fee in return for a 10 percent share of profits, thinking the film would never make money; he needed his signing fee immediately to pay for food and rent. However, \"The Blob\" ended up a hit, grossing $4\u00a0million at the box office.\nThe film's tongue-in-cheek title song, \"The Blob\" [Columbia 42150A], was written by Burt Bacharach and Mack David. It became a nationwide hit in the United States, peaking at #33 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart on November 9, 1958. It was recorded by a studio group who adopted the name The Five Blobs. (The vocals are all by singer Bernie Knee, overdubbing himself.)\n\"The Blob\" background score was by Ralph Carmichael, who, like Yeaworth, had worked on television specials for the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association; it was supervised by the director's wife, Jean Yeaworth. It was one of only a few film scores Carmichael wrote. He composed different opening music for the film\u2014a piece called \"Violence\", intended to start the film on a serious, frightening note. However, the director chose to replace it with the novelty song \"The Blob\" to encourage audiences to view it as campy fun. The song has contributed to the film's enduring popularity. The original score and title song were both included on the soundtrack album, which was re-released in 2008 on the Monstrous Movie Music soundtrack label.\nRelease.\nParamount acquired \"The Blob\" for $300,000 from Jack Harris and spent another $300,000 promoting it. According to Tim Dirks, it was one of a wave of \"cheap teen movies\" for the drive-in market\u2014\"exploitative, cheap fare created especially for [young people] in a newly-established teen/drive-in genre\".\nHarris eventually bought back the rights from Paramount, with Allied Artists Pictures Corporation reissuing it as a double feature with Harris and Yeaworth's \"Dinosaurus!\" in 1964.\nHome media.\n\"The Blob\" has been released as part of the Criterion Collection on three formats: LaserDisc (1988), DVD (2000) and Blu-ray (2013). The DVD and Blu-ray feature new cover art by Michael Koelsch. The film, together with \"Son of Blob\", was released on DVD in Australia by Umbrella Entertainment in September 2011. The DVD is compatible with all region codes and has special features, including audio commentaries with Jack H. Harris, Bruce Eder, Irvin Yeaworth and Robert Fields. In November 2016, Umbrella released a 2-disc Blu-ray, \"The Blob Collection\", featuring the 1988 version of \"The Blob\" and the 1958 version of \"The Blob\". Disc two also includes the Criterion Collection's opening identification, although the release was distributed by Umbrella Entertainment with no mention of Criterion on the disc sleeve.\nReception.\n\"The Blob\" received negative reviews upon release. \"The New York Times\" highlighted some of its problems and identified some positives, although Steve McQueen's starring debut was not one of them. On director Irvin Yeaworth's work, they wrote:\nUnfortunately, his picture talks itself to death, even with the blob nibbling away at everybody in sight. And most of his trick effects, under the direction of Irvin S. Yeaworth Jr., look pretty phony. On the credit side, the camera very snugly frames the small-town background\u2014a store, a church spire, several homes and a theatre. The color is quite good (the blob rolls around in at least a dozen horrible-looking flavors, including raspberry). The acting is pretty terrible itself, there is not a single becomingly familiar face in the cast, headed by young Steven McQueen and Aneta Corseaut.\n\"Variety\" had a similar reaction, seeing McQueen as the star, gamely \"giving the old college try\", but that the \"... star performers, however, are the DeLuxe color camerawork of Thomas Spalding and Barton Sloane's special effects\".\nWriting for \"Famous Monsters of Filmland\" in 1962, Joe Dante Jr. included \"The Blob\" in his list of the worst horror films ever. Dante found the film spent too much time on drag racing, and disliked how the monster was dealt with at the end.\nIn a discussion with biologist Richard Dawkins, astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson stated that among all Hollywood aliens, which were usually disappointing, \"The Blob\" was his favorite from a scientific perspective. \nThe ethnobiologists Oscar Requejo and N. Floro Andres-Rodriguez suggest that the slime mould \"Fuligo septica\" may have inspired the film's eponymous blob.\nThe film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a 68% \"Fresh\" approval rating based on 31 reviews, with an average rating of 6.3/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"In spite of its chortle-worthy premise and dated special effects, \"The Blob\" remains a prime example of how satisfying cheesy B-movie monster thrills can be.\"\nBox office.\nParamount initially ordered 200 prints of the film. Following the first week grosses from 15 Los Angeles theaters (which outgrossed the studio's \"Rock-A-Bye Baby\" and other films), it doubled the number of prints. The first week grosses in Los Angeles included $14,900 from the Hillstreet and Hawaii theaters. The film earned theatrical rentals of $1\u00a0million in its first year of release in the United States and Canada.\nSequel.\n\"Beware! The Blob\", a sequel directed by Larry Hagman, was released in June, 1972. The creature is the same \"Blob\" from the 1958 film, this time inadvertently unearthed by a bulldozer crew building an oil pipeline in the Arctic. With the crew unaware of its origins, a small specimen is placed in a frozen storage container, and taken back to suburban Los Angeles to be analyzed in a lab - escaping when the container is left to thaw. The Blob again wreaks havoc, culminating in hundreds of victims consumed before it is again frozen, this time on an ice rink under renovation. Presented as a \"horror comedy\", the film was also released under the title \"Son of Blob\" in 1972. As this was Hagman's first feature film as director, home video releases used the tagline, \"The Movie That J.R. Shot\", a play on \"Who shot J.R.?\", a widely circulated catchphrase about the near-demise of the character Hagman played in the television series \"Dallas\".\nRemakes.\nA remake with the same name was directed by Chuck Russell and was released in 1988 by TriStar Pictures.\nIn August 2009, it was announced that musician-turned-director Rob Zombie was working on another remake, but he later left the project. He was replaced by Simon West as director in January 2015. It was announced that the film would be produced by Richard Saperstein and Brian Witten, with the producer of the original film, Jack H. Harris, as executive producer. Harris died in 2017.\nAs of January 2024, West had stepped down from his role as director, following delays and a rights dispute. David Bruckner was then hired to write and direct, with David S. Goyer and Keith Levine attached as producers and Judith Harris (the rights holder and widow of the franchise producer) serving as executive producer. The project will be a joint-venture production between Warner Bros. Motion Pictures Group, and Phantom Four Films.\nInfluence.\nThe 1958 Japanese film \"The H-Man\" directed by Ishiro Honda, resembles \"The Blob\", although it was released months earlier. From an original story by Hideo Kaijo, the English version was released in the United States by Columbia Pictures in 1959. In it, a creeping radioactive blob consumes human flesh on contact, leaving clothing behind. As well, a ghostly image of dissolved humans sometimes appear in an illuminated green cloud of radiation.\nThe 1959 Italian movie \"Caltiki - The Immortal Monster\" has similarities to \"The Blob\", with a meteor-related amorphous blob devouring people.\nThe opening scene of the 1988 horror-comedy \"Killer Klowns from Outer Space\" closely parallels that of \"The Blob\". Both movies also have a decent cop named Dave who does not believe the young people, and a crabby older cop who seems to have a grudge against young citizens.\nThe 1999 John Lafia film \"Monster!\" includes a theater scene apparently inspired by \"The Blob\"'s.\nThe film \"Monsters vs. Aliens\" has characters based on classic 1950s movie monsters, including B.O.B. (Benzoate Ostylezene Bicarbonate), an amoeboid creature.\nThe John Carpenter version of \"The Thing\" has a virtually identical camera shot of a body lying under a blanket on a gurney in which the blanket moves. It is similar to the scene in \"The Blob\" in the doctor's office with the old man under the blanket.\nIn the \"Hotel Transylvania\" franchise, one of Dracula's friends is a huge, indestructible green amoeboid creature called \"Blobby\" who is able to absorb and regurgitate anything in his path.\nIn computing, a blob is a collection of binary data stored as a single entity. Blobs are typically images, audio or other multimedia objects, although executable code is sometimes stored as a blob. Blobs were originally just big amorphous chunks of data invented by Jim Starkey at DEC, who describes them as \"the thing that ate Cincinnati, Cleveland, or whatever\" from \"the 1958 Steve McQueen movie\", referring to \"The Blob\".\nLegacy.\nSince 2000, the town of Phoenixville, Pennsylvania, one of the filming locations, has held an annual \"Blobfest\" to celebrate the 1958 film \"The Blob\". The festival includes a reenactment of the iconic scene in which moviegoers run screaming from the town's now-restored Colonial Theatre.\nThe 2024 Blobfest marked its 25th anniversary with expanded festivities. Notably, two \"run-out\" reenactments were held\u2014one on Friday night and another on Saturday night. The Saturday event featured a special appearance by an original cast member who participated in the 1957 filming and reprised their role in the reenactment.\nIn addition to the reenactments, the three-day festival includes a street fair with sci-fi-themed vendors, live music performances, classic car shows, costume contests, and multiple screenings of \"The Blob\"\u2014including, for the first time in 2024, a Spanish-language screening.\nChef's Diner in Downingtown has also been restored, and customers are able to take photographs of the basement (on weekday mornings only).\nThe Blob itself was made from silicone, with increasing amounts of red vegetable dye added as it \"absorbed\" people. In 1965, it was bought by film collector Wes Shank, who has written a book about the making of \"The Blob\".\nAccording to Jeff Sharlet in his book \"The Family\", \"The Blob\" was \"about the creeping horrors of communism\", defeated only \"by freezing it\u2014the Cold War writ small and literal\". Rudy Nelson, one of the film's scriptwriters, has denied many of Sharlet's assertions, saying, \"What on earth can Sharlet say about the movie that will fill 23 pages\u2014especially when what he thinks he knows is all wrong?\".\nIn 1997, film historians Kim R. Holston and Tom Winchester noted that \"The Blob\" was \"filmed in southeastern Pennsylvania at Valley Forge Studios, (and) this very famous piece of pop culture is a model of a decent movie on a small budget\".\nThe trailer for \"The Blob\" is seen during the drive-in scene in the 1978 film adaptation of the musical \"Grease\".\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\nCriminal Minds Season 4 Episode 19, 'House on Fire,' opens by depicting people buying tickets for a screening of The Blob and commenting that it is \"campy,\" and more funny than scary.\nIn \"\", it's one of the many movies that Para-Medic recommends to Snake."}
{"id": "761790", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761790", "title": "Ooshima, Niigata", "text": ""}
{"id": "761792", "revid": "34978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761792", "title": "Glass ceramic", "text": ""}
{"id": "761794", "revid": "26161718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761794", "title": "Omni Air International", "text": "Omni Air International, LLC is a United States charter airline headquartered in Hangar 19 on the grounds of Tulsa International Airport in Tulsa, Oklahoma, United States. It specializes in passenger charter flights and Aircraft, Crew, Maintenance and Insurance (ACMI) wet leasing. Omni Air International is a member of the Civil Reserve Air Fleet as a long-range international carrier. The airline is certified under FAA Part 121 and holds IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) registration. \nOmni Air International is one of the few airlines willing to cooperate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) in controversial (sometimes termed \"high-risk\") deportations under the first and second Donald Trump administrations. Omni Air International has been characterized as engaging in price gouging over its role in deportation flights, and has been accused by critics of facilitating human rights violations by the Trump administration.\nOmni Air was purchased by the private equity firm Stonepeak in April 2025.\nHistory.\nThe airline was established under the name Omni Air Express and started operations in March 1993 with a Boeing 727 freighter aircraft. In 1993, Omni started its Part 121 air carrier operations with Boeing 727F equipment in the narrow-body cargo market. Customers include integrated shipping companies such as BAX Global, DHL, Emery Worldwide, and UPS.\nIn 1997, the company changed its name to Omni Air International and launched passenger operations with DC-10s (including N270AX, the last DC-10 ever built).\nIn 1998, the company sold its Boeing 727F fleet to focus exclusively on its growing passenger business. From 1998 to 2000, the company acquired three second-hand long-range McDonnell Douglas DC-10-30s and began providing international charter service to wholesale companies and cruise lines as well as wet lease Aircraft, Crew, Maintenance and Insurance (ACMI) for other airlines and the US Department of Defense.\nIn April 2003, the Boeing 757-200 passenger aircraft was added to its fleet. The 757-200 fleet was approved for extended range over water operations (ETOPS). Boeing 757s were flown on vacation routes between Las Vegas (LAS) and Honolulu (HNL) year-round. They also flew between Minneapolis/St.Paul (MSP) and Cancun (CUN), Cozumel (CZM), Mazatlan (MZT) and Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo (ZIH), Mexico and to Montego Bay, Jamaica (MBJ) year round and between Boston (BOS) and Aruba (AUA), Netherlands Antilles seasonally.\nBoeing 767-300ER aircraft were added starting in August 2009, and Boeing 777-200ER aircraft began operating in April 2011. That same year, the Boeing 767-200ER was added to the fleet. The B-767s and DC-10s were operated on Department of Defense flights between the US and Kuwait (KWI) and between the US and overseas bases in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East and Central Asia. Omni also occasionally operates sub-service/wet-lease flights for foreign airlines from Canada, Germany, Ireland, Poland, Cyprus, Saudi Arabia, and Bolivia.\nIn 2011, Omni retired the McDonnell Douglas DC-10s from the fleet and received its IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) registration. In 2012, Omni retired the Boeing 757-200.\nOn October 2, 2018, Air Transport Services Group (ATSG) announced it would acquire Omni subject to regulatory approval. On November 9, ATSG completed its acquisition of Omni for $845 million.\nIn September 2019, Omni aided in the repatriation of British citizens after the collapse of the UK's Thomas Cook Airlines. The airline was contracted by the Civil Aviation Authority under the instruction of the British government to operate rescue flights returning stranded Thomas Cook passengers to the UK.\nIn 2020, Omni Air obtained $67 million in coronavirus relief aid, as well as a $77.65 million contract with the Trump administration's Department of Defense for \"international charter airlift services.\"\nIn August 2021, U.S. President Joe Biden activated the Civil Reserve Air Fleet, utilizing 18 aircraft from six commercial airlines to ferry evacuees of Afghanistan from interim waystations throughout the Middle East and Europe. According to the Pentagon, the activation involves four aircraft from United Airlines; three aircraft each from American Airlines, Atlas Air, Delta Air Lines, and Omni Air; and two from Hawaiian Airlines.\nDeportations and involvement with ICE.\nOmni Air International has operated deportation flights under contract with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). \nA 2019 report by \"Quartz\" stated that the airline was the sole provider willing to conduct certain deportation missions deemed \"high-risk,\" and raised concerns about elevated costs for such services. According to University of Washington professor Angelina Godoy, who tracked human rights violations on ICE deportation flights, the reports of abuse on Omni Air were \"significantly worse\" than reports on other ICE Air charters.\nOmni Air planes were used to deport Cameroonian refugees fleeing persecution relating to the Anglophone Crisis. Both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have concluded that the refugees were likely to be in danger if they returned to Cameroon, and that the deportation constituted refoulement, a violation of international law. Several of the deportees were, upon their return to Cameroon, held in squalid conditions, tortured and raped.\nUse of \"WRAP\" devices to hogtie deportee onboard Omni Air flights was confirmed by ICE. In 2017, a plane deporting people to Somalia encountered a mechanical break that saw the plane diverted to Dakar, Senegal. Deportees were reportedly left shackled for 48 hours with little food, and when the plane's lavatories overflowed with human waste, the deportees had to urinate in a bottle or on themselves. The flight subsequently returned to the US with the deportees still on board.\nOmni became the target of activists pushing Amazon to divest their 20% stake in the airline's parent company ATSG, which supplies charters for Prime Air.\nFleet.\n, Omni Air International operates the following aircraft:\nAccidents and incidents.\nOn 28 August 2020, an Omni Air International Boeing 767 (registered N423AX) operated a flight between Kabul, Afghanistan and Washington, United States with a scheduled refueling stop at Bucharest, Romania. During landing at the Romanian capital, the aircraft's left main landing gear collapsed. The aircraft skidded along the runway and evacuation slides were used by the 80 passengers to escape without injury.\nRomania's SIAA found that the cause of the accident was a fracture in the outer cylinder of the left-hand main landing gear. During maintenance in 2015, the inner diameter cylinder was subjected to repeated cycles of chrome plating then grinding and polishing. The grinding machine was operating outside of input parameters, which caused excessive heat generation through friction, leading to heat damage to the base metal of the cylinder. "}
{"id": "761796", "revid": "12885811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761796", "title": "Beauchene Island", "text": "Beauchene Island is the southernmost of the Falkland Islands, lying about south of Porpoise Point in Lafonia. It was discovered in 1701 by Jacques Gouin de Beauch\u00eane, after whom it was named.\nGeography.\nBeauchene is the most isolated island of the Falkland archipelago. It is uninhabited, free of introduced predators and, because it is so remote, has been protected from disturbance. It is in area. The north of the island is covered in dense tussac grass with boulder beaches on the western coast and sloping up gently to about in height. In the south of the island the land rises to around . There are higher cliffs on the eastern coast and the \"southern quarter of the island is almost bare of vegetation.\"\nThe island has a natural anchorage on the east side of the island that can only be used in fair weather. There is no resident population and visitors require the permission of the Falkland Islands Executive Committee. A typical example was a request by Falklands Conservation to make three visits in October 2010, January 2011 and March 2011 for the purpose of taking a bird census. In their application, it was noted that nobody had set foot on the island since a visit by the Shallow Marine Survey Group (SMSG) in December 2009.\nHistory.\nAnthony de la Roch\u00e9 may have sighted Beauchene Island as early as April 1675. However this is by no means certain: de la Roch\u00e9 had rounded Cape Horn and was blown off course. The island visited is usually said to be South Georgia, which fits his descriptions better, particularly of high ice-covered mountains and bays, in one of which he anchored for a fortnight (see the ), but supporters of Argentina's claim to South Georgia more often claim it was Beauchene.\nA while after its official discovery in 1701 by Jacques Gouin de Beauch\u00eane, seal trappers tried unsuccessfully to settle the island.\nIn 1834, the American McArthur landed 100 people on the island, driving the local sea lions to extinction (they have since returned).\nAlthough the island is uninhabited, there are ruins of a group of houses built in the 1830s on the west side of the island.\nThe first proper scientific expedition landed in 1951 by helicopter, staying for a month.\nDuring the Falklands War, there was an Argentine wreck on a reef just south of the islands, and British soldiers lived for around four weeks there.\nFlora and fauna.\nThe island is a nature reserve. It is covered in tussac grass and is known for its caves and for its peat, which forms around ten times faster than anywhere else in the world. Apart from the tussac, plants found on the island include wild celery, Antarctic starwort and bittercress.\nThe island has been identified by BirdLife International as an Important Bird Area. Over 30 species have been recorded, including gentoo penguins (750 breeding pairs), southern rockhopper penguins (60,000 pairs), macaroni penguins, Magellanic penguins, black-browed albatrosses (100,000 pairs), fairy prions (10,000 pairs), sooty shearwaters, Wilson's storm-petrels, grey-backed storm-petrels, common diving petrels, southern giant petrels, imperial shags (2500 pairs), striated caracaras (65 pairs), blackish cinclodes, Cobb's wrens and white-bridled finches. South American sea lions breed in small numbers on the island, which is a major haulout site for non-breeding animals."}
{"id": "761800", "revid": "48523215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761800", "title": "Kasturba Gandhi", "text": "Kasturba Mohandas Gandhi (, born Kasturba Gokuldas Kapadia; 11 April 1869 \u2013 22 February 1944) was an Indian political activist who was involved in the Indian independence movement during British India. She was married to Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi. \"National Safe Motherhood Day\" is observed in India annually on 11 April, coinciding with Kasturba's birthday.\nEarly life and background.\nKasturba was born on 11 April 1869 to Gokuladas and Vrajkunwerba Kapadia. The family belonged to the Modh Bania caste of Gujarati Hindu tradesmen and were based in the coastal town of Porbandar. In May 1883, 14-year-old Kasturba was married to 13-year-old Mohandas in a marriage arranged by their parents.\nRecalling the day of their marriage, her husband once said, \"As we didn't know much about marriage, for us it meant only wearing new clothes, eating sweets and playing with relatives.\" However, as was the prevailing tradition, the adolescent bride was to spend the first few years of marriage at her parents' house, and away from her husband. Writing many years later, Mohandas described with regret the lustful feelings he felt for his young bride, \"even at school I used to think of her, and the thought of nightfall and our subsequent meeting was ever haunting me.\" At the beginning of their marriage, Mohandas was also possessive and manipulative; he wanted the ideal wife who would follow his command.\nKasturba became pregnant at the age of 17. The first child was born prematurely and did not survive the first year. Although their other four sons survived to adulthood, Kasturba never fully recovered from the death of her first child. Mohandas decided to go to London to study and departed in 1888, soon after their second child was born, a son named Harilal. Kasturba remained in India. Mohandas returned from London in 1891, and in 1892 Kasturba gave birth to another son, Manilal. Unable to find a successful career in India, Mohandas left for South Africa in 1893, once again leaving behind Kasturba and his children. In 1896 the family joined Mohandas in South Africa.\nIn 1906, Mohandas took a vow of chastity, or brahamacharya. Some reports indicated that Kasturba felt that this opposed her role as a traditional Hindu wife. However, Kasturba quickly defended her marriage when a woman suggested she was unhappy. Kasturba's relatives also insisted that the greatest good was to remain and obey her husband, the Mahatma.\nRamachandra Guha's biography \"Gandhi Before India\" described the marriage, saying, \"They had, in the emotional as well as sexual sense, always been true to one another. Perhaps because of their periodic, extended separations, Kasturba deeply cherished their time together.\"\nPolitical career.\nKasturba first involved herself with politics in South Africa in 1904 when, with her husband and others, she established the Phoenix Settlement near Durban. In 1913 she took part in protests against the ill-treatment of Indian immigrants in South Africa, for which she was arrested and sentenced to hard labour. While in prison, she led other women in prayer and encouraged the educated women to teach the uneducated women how to read and write.\nThe Gandhis left South Africa in July 1914 and returned to live in India. In spite of Kasturba\u2019s chronic bronchitis she continued to take part in civil actions and protests across India and often took her husband's spot when he was in prison. The majority of her time was dedicated to serving in ashrams. Here, Kasturba was referred to as \"Ba\" or Mother, because she served as mother of the ashrams in India. A point of difference between Kasturba and Mohandas was the treatment of their children in their ashram. Mohandas believed that their sons did not deserve special treatment, while Kasturba felt that Mohandas neglected them.\nIn 1917, Kasturba worked for women's welfare in Champaran, Bihar where Mohandas was working with indigo farmers. She taught women hygiene, discipline, health, reading and writing. In 1922, she participated in a \"Satyagraha\" (nonviolent resistance) movement in Borsad, Gujarat even though she was in poor health. She did not take part in her husband's famous Salt March in 1930, but continued to take part in many civil disobedience campaigns and marches. As a result, she was arrested and jailed on numerous occasions.\nIn 1939, Kasturba took part in nonviolent protests against the British rule in Rajkot, after the women in the city specifically asked her to advocate for them. Kasturba was arrested once again, and kept in solitary confinement for a month. Her health worsened but she continued to fight for independence. In 1942, she was arrested again, along with Mohandas and other freedom fighters, for participating in the Quit India movement. She was imprisoned in the Aga Khan Palace in Pune. By this time her health had severely deteriorated and she died at the detention camp in Pune.\nMohandas wrote of his wife in terms which showed that he expected obedience from her. \"According to my earlier experience, she was very obstinate. In spite of all my pressure she would do as she wished. This led to short or long periods of estrangement between us. But as my public life expanded, my wife bloomed forth and deliberately lost herself in my work.\"\nHealth and death.\nKasturba suffered from chronic bronchitis due to complications at birth. Her bronchitis was complicated by pneumonia. In January 1908 she fasted while her husband was in prison, and she became gravely ill. She came so close to death that Mohandas apologised to her, and promised he would not remarry if she died. Kasturba would later undergo a major surgery.\nIn January 1944, Kasturba suffered two heart attacks, after which she was confined to her bed much of the time. Even there she found no respite from pain. Spells of breathlessness interfered with her sleep at night. She asked to see an Ayurvedic doctor, and after several delays, the government allowed a specialist in traditional Indian medicine to attend to her. At first she responded well, recovering enough by the second week in February to sit on the veranda in a wheelchair for short periods and talk with him. Later she suffered a relapse. Her son Devdas ordered penicillin, but her doctors did not want to use it because the final failure of her kidneys could not be relieved by penicillin. The doctors informed the Gandhi family that the condition of Kasturba had already deteriorated enough that penicillin would not be helpful.\nShe died at the Aga Khan Palace in Pune, at 7:35 PM local time on 22 February 1944, aged 74.\nThe Kasturba Gandhi National Memorial Trust Fund was set up in her memory. Mohandas requested that this fund be used to help women and children in villages in India.\nLegacy.\nMany institutions, roads, and cities are named after Kasturba Gandhi:\nIn popular culture.\nNarayan Desai wrote a play, \"Kasturba\", based on Kasturba Gandhi. It was directed by Aditi Desai and was staged several times.\nIn the 1982 film \"Gandhi\", the role of Kasturba Gandhi was played by Rohini Hattangadi."}
{"id": "761801", "revid": "45266726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761801", "title": "Rockhopper penguin", "text": "The rockhopper penguins are three closely related taxa of crested penguins that have been traditionally treated as a single species and are sometimes split into three species.\nNot all experts agree on the classification of these penguins. Some consider all three to be distinct species, while others separate the western and eastern forms as the southern rockhopper penguin and regard the northern rockhopper as a separate species. Still, some experts view all three as varieties of a single species.\nAppearance.\nRockhopper penguins (Eudyptes chrysocome) are among the smaller species of penguin. After reaching full growth, they are about 20 inches or 50 centimetres in height. Males and females cannot be distinguished visually, so a DNA test is conducted by taking a feather from the bird to determine its gender. Like many penguins, rockhopper penguins have a white belly and the rest of their body is black. Some distinguishing characteristics of these penguins include their red eyes, orange beak, pink webbed feet, and the yellow and black spiky feathers on their heads. Although their yellow and black spiky feathers differentiate them from other penguins, rockhopper penguin chicks do not have them; these feathers develop with age. Their orange beak is initially black, but as the penguins get older, their beaks turn orange. Due to the harsh rocky environment, they cannot slide on their bellies like most penguins, so they hop to get from one place to another, hence their name.\nThe yellow and black \u2018hair\u2019 they have on the top of their head is similar to that of the Macaroni penguin (Eudyptes chrysolophus).\nSubspecies.\nWhat separates rockhopper penguins into subspecies is their breeding location and reproductive behaviors. The differences in mating signals between the southern subspecies (\"E. chrysocome\") and the northern subspecies (\"E. moseleyi\") appear to have evolved rapidly, making these behavioral changes sufficient to isolate the two taxa.\nSouthern rockhopper penguins are split into two subspecies and they are defined by their location of reproduction. The subspecies \"E. c. filholi\" (eastern) is known to reproduce in the sub-Antarctic around the Prince Edward Islands, Crozet Islands, Kerguelen Islands, Heard Island, Macquarie Island and Campbell, Auckland and Antipodes Islands. The subspecies \"E. c. chrysocome\", which may be referred to the true southern subspecies, reproduces at offshore islands in southern Chile, Argentina and at the Falkland Islands. The Falkland Islands are known to have one of the largest populations of southern rockhopper penguins.\nThe species or subspecies in the group are:\nHabitat and distribution.\nNorthern rockhopper penguins breed in cool temperate climates including on the islands of Gough and Tristan da Cunha in the Atlantic Ocean and Saint Paul and Amsterdam Islands in the Indian Ocean. The southern rockhopper breeds on the Falkland Islands, Argentina and Chile, with breeding colonies around Cape Horn in South America, and Gough, Prince Edward, Marion, Crozet, Kerguelen, Heard, Macquarie, Campbell, Auckland and Antipodes Islands in the southern Indian Ocean. Eastern rockhopper penguins are mostly found breeding on Campbell Island in New Zealand, but their numbers have declined immensely. Rockhopper penguins usually make their habitat in rocky shorelines. They make nests and burrows in tall grasses called tussocks.\nDiet.\nThe rockhopper penguin's diet consists of krill and small crustaceans, which may include shrimp, crabs, lobsters or crayfish. They also eat squid and myctophid fish. Rockhopper penguins consume more krill than they do fish; their diet changes during migration and as the seasons change. Rockhopper penguins can be at sea for several days while hunting. They can dive up to for many minutes at a time while searching for prey.\nReproduction.\nRockhoppers are the most widespread crested penguins. Their range goes from the Antarctic front to the South Atlantic and Indian Oceans. Because of how widespread they are, breeding varies among the penguins in different areas. Northern Penguins begin the mating process two months earlier than Southern ones. Two eggs are usually laid a few days apart during early November in hope that at least one will survive, and the second egg is usually larger than the first. They will use the same nest as they did in previous years as well. Eggs hatch about a month later and the mother will have food for the chick.\nTaxonomy.\nThere are currently 19 species and six genera of living penguins. The rockhopper penguin has 3 subspecies: \"Eudyptes filholi\", the Eastern Rockhopper; \"Eudyptes mosleyi\", the Northern Rockhopper; and the \"Eudyptes chrysocome\", the Southern Rockhopper. They are separated by their locations of breeding. There are four other species in the genus \"Eudyptes\": \"E. pachyrhynchus\", \"E. robustus\", \"E. chrysolophus\", and \"E. schlegeli\". The three subspecies of the rockhopper penguin are believed to have split up because of latitude and watermasses rather than because of geographic distances. Research suggests that during the early Pleistocene, the Southern Ocean was cold and rockhopper populations from the Atlantic and Indian Oceans remained undifferentiated and lived in the same watermass. The mid-Pleistocene climatic transition was associated with the southward migration of frontal positions and islands became surrounded by subtropical water masses, resulting in a split between Northern and Southern rockhopper penguins. Many advance and retreat cycles of Patagonian icecaps during the late Pleistocene may have created a barrier to gene flow between Southern Pacific and Southern Atlantic populations, causing a split between Southern and Eastern rockhopper populations.\nPredators.\nAdult Rockhopper penguins have no land-based predators. They are eaten when at sea by leopard seals, fur seals, killer whales and blue sharks. Chicks and eggs are eaten by many birds including giant petrels, skuas, sheathbills and various types of gulls.\nConservation.\nAlthough the rockhopper penguin is one of the world's most numerous penguin populations, it is estimated that the population declined by some 30 percent over the final 30 years of the 20th century. The cause of this decline is mainly unknown, but scientists have speculated that humans are involved, mostly by commercial overfishing, oil exploitation, and pollution. Recent research has shown that rockhopper penguin population declines with changes in ocean surface temperature, indicating a direct impact from climate change. These activities have depleted much of the rockhopper penguin's food supply and raised the sea surface temperatures, and because this species is geographically isolated to the tip of South America and the Falkland Islands and is very sensitive to food web changes, there is little foreseeable opportunity for the penguins to recover.\nOil spills.\nAn oil spill followed the grounding of the MS \"Oliva\" off Nightingale Island in 2011, which resulted in thousands of Rockhopper penguins becoming oiled. Oil spills have impacted many penguin species since the conversion of shipping from sail and coal propulsion to liquid-based fuels in the early 20th century.\nIn films.\nRockhoppers are seen in the films, \"The Pebble and the Penguin\", \"Happy Feet\" and \"Happy Feet 2\", \"Surf's Up\" and \"\", and \"The Wild\"."}
{"id": "761802", "revid": "1297208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761802", "title": "Bee Line Expressway", "text": ""}
{"id": "761804", "revid": "49447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761804", "title": "City of Dublin", "text": ""}
{"id": "761805", "revid": "8577543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761805", "title": "Philip Gross", "text": "Philip Gross (born 1952) is a poet, novelist, playwright, children's writer and academic based in England and Wales. Until 2027 he was Professor of Creative Writing at the University of South Wales.\nBiography.\nPhilip Gross was born in 1952 at Delabole in north Cornwall, near the sea, as the only child of Juhan Karl Gross, an Estonian wartime refugee, and Jessie, daughter of the local village schoolmaster. He grew up and was educated in Plymouth. In junior school he began writing stories and in his teens he took to poetry as well. He is a Quaker. He went on to the University of Sussex, where he gained his BA in English. He worked for a correspondence college and in several libraries, as he has a diploma in librarianship. Since the early 1980s he has been a freelance writer and writing educator and more recently held posts in several universities.\nIn the 1980s, Gross and his first wife, Helen, had a son and a daughter. While living in Bristol he began travelling around schools in Britain as a workshop leader and later joined Bath Spa University to teach Creative Studies. In 2000, he married his second wife, Z\u00e9lie. In 2004 he was appointed Professor of Creative Writing at the University of Glamorgan, now the University of South Wales, since 2017 as Emeritus. In 2007 he received a DLitt from the university.\nGross won the T. S. Eliot Prize in 2009 for a collection of poems, \"The Water Table\", a Gregory Award in 1981, and the National Poetry Competition in 1982.\nHe has judged numerous poetry competitions: in 2014 the Hippocrates Prize for Poetry and Medicine, the Manchester Writing for Children Prize 2014, the Magma Poetry Competition and the Medicine Unboxed Creative Prize. In the summer of 2015 he was writer in residence at the Poetry on the Move international festival at the University of Canberra.\nWork.\nPhilip Gross published three books in 2009, all of which won major prizes. On 18 January 2010, he was announced to have won the 2009 T. S. Eliot Prize for \"The Water Table\". Meanwhile \"I Spy Pinhole Eye\", from Cinnamon Press, with photographs by Simon Denison, won him the Wales Book of the Year prize on 30 June 2010. The following year, his collection for children, \"Off Road to Everywhere\" (Salt) was awarded the Centre for Literacy in Primary Education prize for 2011. Several of his collections have been a Choice or Recommendation of the Poetry Book Society, most recently \"Love Songs of Carbon\" and \"The Thirteenth Angel\", which was also shortlisted for the T. S. Eliot Prize.\nHis earlier poetry collections, from 1983, include \"The Ice Factory\", \"Cat's Whisker\", \"The Son of the Duke of Nowhere\", \"I.D.\", \"The Wasting Game\" \u2013 all collected in \"Changes of Address: Poems 1980\u201398\". Of his more recent work, the Poetry Book Society selectors wrote, \"At the heart of all of Gross's collections has been his deep enquiry into and fascination with the nature of embodiment and existence \u2013 what water is and does in \"The Water Table\", the role of language, and speech especially, in identity and the self in \"Deep Field and Later\". Now in \"Love Songs of Carbon\" Gross tests and feels his amazed way through the mysteries of the multiple manifestations of love and ageing.\"\nGross's ten novels for young people include \"Going For Stone\", \"The Lastling\" and \"The Storm Garden\" (Oxford University Press). He has also written stage plays, work for radio, a children's opera, and in 2015 \"The King In The Car Park\", a schools cantata on the death and reburial of Richard III, to a score by Benjamin Frank Vaughan). He has collaborated frequently with musicians, painters, dancers and other writers.\nHis poems and writings on poetry appear in a wide range of magazines and journals, where he investigates the creative process, in particular cross-arts work and collaboration, as in \"Then Again What Do I Know: reflections on reflection in Creative Writing\". He contributed to \"The Writer in the Academy: Creative Interfrictions\", edited by Richard Marggraf Turley and with \"Halfway-to-Whole Things: Ecologies of Writing and Collaboration\" to \"Extending Ecocriticism\"."}
{"id": "761806", "revid": "38001712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761806", "title": "Near North Side, Chicago", "text": "The Near North Side is one of the 77 community areas of Chicago in Illinois, United States. It is the northernmost of the three areas that constitute central Chicago, the others being the Loop and the Near South Side. The community area is located north and east of the Chicago River. To its east is the shore of Lake Michigan, and its northern boundary is the early 19th-century city limit of Chicago, North Avenue. In 2020 the Near North Side had 105,481 residents, surpassing Lake View as the largest Chicago community area by population. It is also the most densely populated community area and has the second most skyscrapers, after the Loop. With the exception of areas near Goose Island in the northwest (which is undergoing development), the Near North Side is known for its affluence, typified by the Gold Coast, Magnificent Mile, Navy Pier, and residential skyscrapers.\nThe Near North Side is arguably the oldest part of Chicago. In the 1780s, in what is now the Near North Side, on the northern banks of the Chicago River near today's Michigan Avenue Bridge, Jean Baptiste Point du Sable built the first known permanent settlement in what was called \"Eschecagou.\" Today, this is marked by Pioneer Court.\nEspecially in the vicinity of Rush and Erie streets, the Near North Side was once known as McCormickville; so named because it is here where many branches of the famous McCormick family of mechanical reaper and publishing fame built their mansions in the late 1800s and early 1900s.\nNeighborhoods.\nGold Coast.\nThe Gold Coast consists mostly of luxury high-rise apartment towers and buildings and stone mansions throughout. Its borders are generally defined as North Avenue to the north, Lake Michigan to the east, Chicago Avenue to the south, and Clark Street to the west.\nThe Gold Coast became the home of the super-rich in 1885, when Potter Palmer, former dry goods merchant and owner of the Palmer House hotel, built a fanciful castle on Lake Shore Drive. Over the next few decades, Chicago's elite gradually migrated from Prairie Avenue to their new homes north of the Loop.\nAlong almost every boulevard of the Gold Coast has upscale boutiques and shops. Many upscale auto dearlerships are located here. Many of Chicago's best known and highly rated restaurants are located here as well. Also in the area are Lou Malnati's Pizzeria, Gibsons Steakhouse, and the original Morton's The Steakhouse.\nThe \"Gold Coast Historic District\" was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on January 30, 1978.\nThe Gold Coast is zoned to the following Chicago Public Schools schools: Ogden School and the prestigious Latin School of Chicago.\nOld Town.\nOld Town is a Chicago neighborhood bounded by North Avenue on the north, Larrabee Street on the northwest, Division Street on the south, Clybourn Avenue on the southwest, and LaSalle Street on the east. It crosses portions of the community areas of southern Lincoln Park, as well as the northern Near North Side, and is part of Chicago's 43rd ward.\nOld Town includes the Old Town Triangle Historic District which is bounded on its northwest side by the former Ogden Avenue right-of-way, its northeast side by Lincoln Avenue and Wells Street, and on its south side by North Avenue. This historic district sits within the Old Town Triangle Association (OTTA), a Lincoln Park neighborhood bounded by the former Ogden Avenue right-of-way, Clark Street, and North Avenue. It sits inside the community area of Lincoln Park and is part of Chicago's 43rd ward. Old Town north of North Avenue is in Lincoln Park, and south of North Avenue is part of the Near North Side.\nOld Town is now an affluent and historic neighborhood, home to many of Chicago's older Victorian-era buildings. However, in the 1950s, most of this area was an enclave to the first emigrants from Puerto Rico to Chicago, who referred to it as part of La Clark until commercialization decorated late 1960s shop signs with the name of Old Town. The neighborhood is home to St. Michael's Church, originally built to serve German immigrants, and one of only 7 to survive the great Chicago fire. St. Michael's, Holy Name Cathedral, Immaculate Conception, and St. Joseph's Catholic churches all catered to Latinos with a Mass in Spanish.\nMany of the streets and alleys, particularly in the Old Town Triangle section, predate the Great Chicago Fire and do not all adhere to the city's typical grid pattern. In 1927, sculptors Sol Kogen and Edgar Miller purchased and subsequently rehabilitated a house on Burton Place, near Wells Street, into the Carl Street Studios. Through the 1930s, an art colony emerged in the neighborhood as artists moved from the Towertown neighborhood near Washington Square Park.\nOld Town was home to many gays and lesbians from the 1950s through the 1980s. This was the first \"gay ghetto\" in Chicago, predating the current large Lake View neighborhood which also contains the Boystown district. There were numerous gay establishments in Old Town (now mostly closed as Lake View is now the main gayborhood) along Wells Street and Old Town was home to the longstanding gay-themed Bijou Theater until it closed in September 2015. As Old Town gentrified, the LGBT population of the nearby Lake View neighborhood continued to increase, as well as the LGBT populations of the Lincoln Park and Andersonville areas.\nOld Town is home to the famous Second City improvisational comedy troupe which has launched the careers of many successful comedians and actors.\nOld Town has three \"L\" rapid transit stations: North/Clybourn, Sedgwick, and Clark/Division.\nGoose Island.\nGoose Island is an island in Chicago covering 160 acres on the Chicago River that is completely surrounded by the rest of the city. It is separated from the mainland by the North Branch of the Chicago River on the west and by the North Branch Canal on the east. The canal was dug in 1853 by mayor William Butler Ogden's administration and was dug for industrial purposes, thus forming the island. After Irish immigrants settled on the island, it took the name Goose Island, as well as that of Kilgubbin, which was the immigrants' original home in Ireland. The Goose Island Brewery makes Kilgubbin Red Ale, in honor of this name.\nThe large facility on the north end of Goose Island (visible from North Avenue, but by car only reachable from the south: Division Street to North Branch to 1132 W. Blackhawk) is the Wrigley Global Innovation Center, a facility, which opened in September 2005 and was designed by Gyo Obata of Hellmuth, Obata and Kassabaum. While cars are able to approach from the south, trains, bicycles, and pedestrians can reach the site via the rail/pedestrian Cherry Avenue Bridge spanning from North Avenue to Goose Island. Additionally, there is seasonal access from the north via the Chicago Water Taxi service dock at the south end of the Cherry Avenue Bridge.\nOn the south end of the island is Kendall College's Riverworks campus. The southern end of the island is currently undergoing redevelopment with upscale condominiums, townhouses, and apartments.\nRiver North.\nRiver North is a neighborhood known for its fine dining, galleries, nightlife, and riverwalk amenities. It is home to the world headquarters of ConAgra, Groupon, Motorola Mobility, and the regional offices of Yelp. It is bounded by Michigan Avenue to the east, Chicago Avenue to the north, and the Chicago River to the south and west. River North has many towers and high-rises and some of its other famous structures include the Merchandise Mart, the Wrigley Building, Holy Name Cathedral, the Marina City towers, and the House of Blues.\nSmokey Hollow.\nRiver North was previously named Smokey Hollow, at the turn of the 20th century, due to the many factories and forges in the area. Smoke from the factories was often so thick that it blocked the sunlight. At the time, Smokey Hollow was a major transportation hub, with railroad tracks linking the ports along the Chicago River to the surrounding areas. The now mixed-use Merchandise Mart was once a major storage warehouse for goods, and it still has railroad tracks underneath its sprawling structure. Former major retailer Montgomery Ward also had a major transportation and storage facility in River North. Massive coal bins were formerly located throughout the neighborhood, for storage of coal transported by ship.\nLittle Sicily.\nLittle Sicily in Chicago was also located in River North. The first Italian Roman Catholic Church in Chicago was Assumption, on Illinois Street, with a mandate to be the parish church for all Italians from Lake Michigan to the Mississippi River. Later, Sicilians began to move north from the immediate vicinity of Assumption and began to form their own parishes. Italians whose family roots were from other parts of Italy tended to move west along Grand Street and form parishes west of Assumption.\nCabrini\u2013Green.\nThe Near North Side formerly included the now demolished Cabrini\u2013Green Homes public housing project that once housed 15,000 subsidized tenants. It was made up primarily of high-rise and mid-rise buildings. The apartment buildings opened in 1958 and 1962, while the shuttered rowhouses (called the Frances Cabrini Homes, a few of which still exist) had opened in 1942. Cabrini\u2013Green stood in what once was the former Italian enclave called the Little Sicily neighborhood, and the former site of St. Dominic's Church. In the 1920s, Little Sicily developed a reputation for poverty and crime. As gentrification began to take hold in the 1990s, the buildings made way for new upscale developments. The final Cabrini-Green tower was demolished in 2011. Following the conclusion of a civil lawsuit, the former Cabrini-Green site was transformed and revitalized with new upscale development spurred by the growth of Old Town to the north, and the already affluent areas of the Gold Coast to the east and River North to the south. Goose Island, which sits to the west, is currently undergoing new development.\nRiver North.\nThe River North neighborhood got its name from Chicago real estate developer Albert Friedman (chief executive of Friedman Properties Ltd.), who in 1974 started to buy, restore, and build commercial property in the southeast sector. Much of the area was a shabby urban neighborhood. In an effort to attract tenants Friedman began calling the area \"River North\". Within a few years, Friedman found photographers, ad agencies, and art galleries willing to rent the low-cost space and to coalesce into what is now the River North Gallery District, which has the largest concentration of art galleries in the United States outside of Manhattan. Along with hundreds of art galleries, the area has many taverns, rooftop bars, dance clubs, popular restaurants, and entertainment venues. Between the years 2000 and 2010, the population in the four census tracts covering River North increased by an average of nearly 82%, boosting population from 9,835 in 2000 to 17,892 in 2010.\nDistricts of River North include:\nRiver North is serviced by four CTA \"L\" train stations: the subway stations of Chicago Avenue (Red Line) and Grand Avenue (Red Line); and the elevated stations of Chicago Avenue (Brown Line) and Merchandise Mart (Brown Line).\nStreeterville.\nStreeterville is the easternmost neighborhood in Chicago north of the Chicago River. It is bounded by the river on the south, Michigan Avenue on the west, and Lake Michigan on the north and east.\nStreeterville houses some of Chicago's tallest skyscrapers (such as the John Hancock Center); many upscale stores, hotels, restaurants; and Northwestern University's Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Feinberg School of Medicine, School of Professional Studies, Kellogg School of Management's downtown campus, and School of Law.\nThe number one tourist attraction in the Midwest, Navy Pier, is located in Streeterville. The neighborhood also houses the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago.\nMagnificent Mile.\nThe Magnificent Mile is a stretch of North Michigan Avenue between the Chicago River and Oak Street. Along this portion of Michigan Avenue is a mixture of luxury stores, restaurants, office buildings, and hotels. The area has a high concentration of the city's major media firms and advertising agencies as well, including the \"Chicago Tribune\" newspaper.\nThe street is the home of Chicago's famous Water Tower landmark, Water Tower Park with its historic clock, and the eight-level Water Tower Place shopping center which grew up next door to the landmark. North of the shopping center can be found the famous John Hancock Center, also known as 875 North Michigan Avenue tower; the Art Deco Palmolive Building; and the lavish Drake Hotel that sits across from a beach.\nEconomy.\nGoogle's Chicago offices are in the Dearborn Plaza building. Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways have offices in the John Hancock Center. The Wrigley Company had its headquarters in the Wrigley Building before moving to Goose Island, also within the community area, in 2012.\nAfter American Airlines acquired Simmons Airlines, and before Simmons was dissolved, Simmons had its headquarters on the Near North Side. At one point Indigo Airlines was headquartered on the Near North Side. The Tribune Company had its headquarters in the eponymous Tribune Tower before moving to One Prudential Plaza in the Loop in 2017. Potbelly Sandwich Works likewise was located in the Merchandise Mart complex before moving to the West Loop in 2015.\nPolitics.\nLocal.\nThe Near North Side is currently part of the 2nd, 27th, 42nd, and 43rd wards of the Chicago City Council, which are respectively represented by Democratic aldermen Brian Hopkins, Walter Burnett Jr., Brendan Reilly, and Michele Smith.\nIn the Cook County Board of Commissioners the majority of the area is in the 3rd district, represented by Democrat Bill Lowry. The westernmost part, including the majority of Goose Island, and much of the southwestern part, including the majority of River North, is in the 12th District, represented by Democrat John Fritchey. Two parts of the area in the extreme south\u2014the respective vicinities of Wolf Point and the Wabash Avenue Bridge\u2014are part of the 2nd District, represented by Democrat Dennis Deer.\nState.\nIn the Illinois House of Representatives the community area is roughly evenly split lengthwise between, from east to west, Districts 26, 5, 9, and 10, represented respectively by Democrats Christian Mitchell, Juliana Stratton, Art Turner, and Melissa Conyears. The southwest portion of the area\u2014the western half of River North\u2014is within District 6 represented by Democrat Sonya Harper, and the northeastern part\u2014the eastern half of Old Town and the northern half of the Gold Coast\u2014is within District 12, represented by Democrat Sara Feigenholtz.\nIn the Illinois Senate the biggest portion of the community area is in District 3, represented by Democrat Mattie Hunter, while Streeterville and the southern half of the Gold Coast is in District 13, represented by Democrat Kwame Raoul, Cabrini\u2013Green, Goose Island, and the western half of Old Town is in District 5, represented by Democrat Patricia Van Pelt, and the eastern part of Old Town and the northern half of the Gold Coast is in District 6, represented by Democrat and Illinois Senate President John Cullerton.\nFederal.\nIn the US House of Representatives, the area is mostly within Illinois's 7th congressional district, which is the most Democratic-leaning district in the State of Illinois according to the Cook Partisan Voting Index with a score of D+38 and represented by Democrat Danny K. Davis. Small parts in the north are within Illinois's 5th congressional district, which is represented by Democrat Mike Quigley.\nIn the 2016 presidential election, the Near North Side cast 32,150 votes for Hillary Clinton and cast 8,778 votes for Donald Trump (74.5% to 20.4%). In the 2012 presidential election, the Near North Side cast 24,592 votes for Barack Obama and cast 12,939 votes for Mitt Romney (64.5% to 34.0%).\nDiplomatic missions.\nSeveral consulates are located on the Near North Side. The main building and visa office of the Consulate-General of the People's Republic of China are here. Other countries with missions here include Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Denmark, Egypt, Germany, Greece, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Lithuania, Poland, Serbia, Switzerland, Thailand, the United Kingdom, and Ukraine.\nThree trade missions have offices at 500 North Michigan Avenue: the Austrian Trade Commission is located in Suite 1950, the Italian-American Chamber of Commerce Midwest is located in Suite 506, and the Trade Commission of Spain is here.\nEducation.\nPrimary and secondary schools.\nChicago Public Schools serves residents of the Near North Side.\nMagnet schools:\nCharter schools:\nPrivate schools:"}
{"id": "761807", "revid": "30425052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761807", "title": "Joseph Thauberger", "text": "Joseph Thauberger (August 26, 1909 \u2013 April 21, 1998) was a Canadian politician. Born in Bessarabia (now Moldova), he emigrated to Canada from Russia with his parents, Andreas Thauberger and Maria Eva (n\u00e9e B\u00e4hr) in 1911.\nIn the 1972 federal election, Thauberger ran for the Social Credit Party of Canada in the riding of Qu'Appelle, Saskatchewan. He placed last in a field of four candidates, with 839 votes (3.1% of the total).\nJoseph Thauberger helped establish the Canada Party in the early 1990s to promote a policy of nationalism and monetary reform. He became the first leader of that party.\nIn the 1993 election, he ran for the Canada Party in the riding of Regina\u2014Qu'Appelle, Saskatchewan. He placed last in a field of six candidates, with 178 votes (0.55% of the total).\nThauberger stepped down from the party leadership in 1994 and was replaced by Claire Foss. The party merged into the Canadian Action Party in 1997. Joseph Thauberger died in Regina, Saskatchewan in April 1998. He is buried in Riverside Cemetery in Regina.\nJoseph Thauberger's son, Dr. Patrick Cyril Thauberger, disappeared in Regina in 1997 while travelling from Winnipeg to Edmonton. His body was later found in a slough on the family farm, having been put there by his brother Joe, who was later convicted of his murder.\nThe Regina Police Service arrested Patrick Thauberger's older brother Joseph George Thauberger, on November 29, 2020, on charges of first degree murder in Patrick's death, offering an indignity to a human body and uttering threats to a woman (between 1997 and 2014). He was convicted of second degree murder in 2023."}
{"id": "761808", "revid": "41211567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761808", "title": "Agony (1992 video game)", "text": "Agony is a horizontally scrolling shooter with a surreal fantasy background. It was released by Psygnosis in 1992 for the Amiga. The game was developed by the company Art &amp; Magic, which was originally known as Ordilogic Systems. Agony was the only Amiga game developed under the Art &amp; Magic name, as after Agony was released, Art &amp; Magic started developing arcade video games exclusively. \"Agony\" features a barn owl flying its way through six worlds filled with monsters. The owl uses various waves of echolocation which the player fires at the enemies.\nPlot.\nAccording to the manual backstory, the sun-wizard master Acanthopsis discovers the \"Cosmic Power\" with a toll on his life. Before dying he teaches it to his disciples, Alestes and Mentor. Alestes has been transformed into a barn owl, and has to pass through Mentor's traps and monsters in order to reach the Cosmic Power.\nGameplay.\nAgony is a classic horizontal scrolling shoot'em up. Controlling the owl, the player has to navigate through six levels shooting at enemies, avoiding hazards and defeating mid-level and end-level bosses.\nThe player is able to power-up the owl's basic shot up to three times by collecting magic potions. In addition, two flying swords can be picked up and act as defense systems, that damage enemies and destroy enemies' projectiles. Also, a magic scroll provides temporary invincibility.\nA single contact with an enemy or a projectile costs the player one of its three lives and part of its power-ups.\nUpon getting the related scrolls, the player is also able to open a spell menu and choose between eight different temporary spells that provide various advantages, from extra firepower to defensive effects. \nMusic.\nThe theme song is by Tim Wright, a classically themed, piano-led instrumental. The title song was adapted without giving him proper credit by the keyboardist of Dimmu Borgir in the song \"Sorgens Kammer\" for their \"Stormbl\u00e5st\" album. The band did not know about this. Following several months of communication between Wright and Dimmu Borgir, and in a nod to the composer, the band did not include the track on a later re-recording of \"Stormbl\u00e5st\". The title song is also slightly different from the version that Wright originally submitted to Art &amp; Magic. Franck Sauer advised Wright that he could source improved piano sounds for the piece, and requested permission to change them. Wright agreed, but did not hear the result before the game went to the final master, and consequently some notes within the piece were transposed; this 'mistake' was also covered by Dimmu Borgir.\nLegacy.\nAround 2010, graphic artist Franck Sauer started to offer the game's binary files (ADF format) for free download on his personal webpage, making the game freeware.\nOn July 4, 2020, the programmer of the game, Yves Grolet, uploaded all his Amiga development files (which included full source code for \"Agony\") to WeTransfer."}
{"id": "761809", "revid": "50450040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761809", "title": "Sophia Alekseyevna of Russia", "text": "Sophia Alekseyevna (; ) was a Russian princess who ruled as regent of Russia from 1682 to 1689. She allied herself with a singularly capable courtier and politician, Prince Vasily Golitsyn, to install herself during the minority of her brother Ivan V and half-brother Peter I. She carried out her regency with a firm hand. The activity of this \"bogatyr-tsarevna\", as Sergey Solovyov called her, was all the more extraordinary, as upper-class Muscovite women were confined to the upper-floor \"terem\", veiled and guarded in public, and invariably kept aloof from any open involvement in politics.\nEarly life.\nSophia was the third surviving daughter of Tsar Alexis by his first wife, Maria Miloslavskaya. She was the only one of her sisters educated by Simeon Polotsky, who also taught Tsar Alexis' heirs Tsarevich Alexei and Tsarevich Feodor. After the death of her brother Tsar Feodor III on 27 April 1682, Sophia unexpectedly entered Russian politics, trying to prevent her young half-brother, the 9-year old Peter Alekseyevich from bypassing his 16-year-old elder brother Tsarevich Ivan and inheriting the throne.\nRise to regency.\nAlthough Sophia emerged from the shadows during the dynastic struggles of 1682, her prior influences can help to explain her ascendance to the regency. At the previous change of ruler in 1676, Sophia may have acted in the interest of her brother, Feodor, as various rumours exist of her pleading then with her father, the dying Tsar Alexis, not to proclaim Peter his heir. Feodor's capability to lead Russia was questioned, based on his weak nature and poor health. His mental ability developed quite nicely over time, as he was taught by Simeon Polotsky. During Feodor III's brief reign (1676\u20131682), many historians argue, Feodor actually \"ruled under the protectorate of Sophia his sister\".\nAs the young Tsar Feodor's health began to decline, more individuals rose up to counsel him, and Sophia found her influence steadily declining. Taking advantage of a court never open to a woman in her situation, she utilized her connections, making allies and formally planning on securing the throne. When Feodor died on , Sophia immediately returned to the political scene. She attended her brother's funeral and caused a commotion while doing so. In Sophia's age, the female relatives of the tsar were kept away from the court and other political spheres, and funerals traditionally took place without women. Sophia stormed into the funeral, insisting on her presence and simultaneously setting off a chain of events that would result in her regency.\nThe Miloslavsky party, grouped around the family of Feodor and Sophia, took advantage of the Streltsy uprising to place Sophia on the seat of power. Tsar Alexis had left behind two families by his two wives, and each of the two branches had at least one male heir. As the clans of Alexis' two wives were in conflict, Sophia devised a plan to ensure power for herself and her family. Promoting the case of her full brother Ivan as the legitimate heir to the throne, Sophia attempted to convince the patriarch and the boyars that they should reverse their recent decision to crown Peter. Insisting that Peter's proclamation broke monarchic laws by skipping over her brother, who would have been next in line to rule if not for his ineptitude, she proposed a shared crown with Ivan and herself.\nUpon the court's swift and unanimous rejection of this proposal, Sophia reached out to the discouraged military troop, the streltsy, for their aid and support. The unjust dismissal of Ivan's rights acted as a catalyst for the already displeased and frustrated troops. Multiple issues, including merciless motivational tactics and lack of rest, drove the streltsy to violent opposition against the \"unjust\" election of Peter. As the fighting ceased and Peter's life was left forever scarred by the blood spilt by his Naryshkin relatives, the streltsy achieved their initial demands.\nIn the aftermath of the streltsy rebellion, on 25 June 1682 the Patriarch Ioakim crowned the incompetent Ivan as senior tsar (Ivan V) and Peter, only nine years old, as junior tsar. Sophia had been deemed the sole intellectually mature member of the ruling family at the time of Feodor's death, making her the favourite to govern on behalf of the child Peter and of the inept Ivan. Using political and practical knowledge she had acquired by Feodor's side, Sophia convinced the nobles and the patriarch of her capacity to rule Russia. As Sophia had arranged before Tsar Feodor's death, Vasily Golitsyn was installed as \"de facto\" head of government, executing most of the policies during her regency.\nRomantic life.\nSophia's relationship with Prince Golitsyn was not necessarily a romantic attachment. Golitsyn had a wife and a large family at a time when the boyars were still attached to the Domostroy, a matrimonial code from Ivan IV's reign. Several early 18th-century memoirs gave birth to rumours that Golitsyn had been Sophia's lover. Some see the evidence for this in the tone of Sophia's correspondence with him in 1689.\nIn any case, a romantic interaction between the two could not begin when they met under Feodor's rule. Feodor entrusted great confidence in Golitsyn, and there remains no evidence Sophia and Vasily acted against customs that would have kept them apart until after his death. There is no suspicion of any relations until the letter in 1689, even during the period of Golitsyn's rise to power.\nRegency.\nWhen the Old Believers joined the rebels in the fall of 1682 and demanded the reversal of Nikon's reforms, Sophia lost control of the unsteady Streltsy to her once ally, Prince Ivan Khovansky. After aiding Sophia in May, Khovansky used his influence with the troops to force her court to flee the Moscow Kremlin and seek refuge in the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra. The streltsy rebels, who instigated the rebellion, hoped to depose Sophia and to make Prince Ivan Khovansky a new regent, to satisfy their increasing desire for concessions. Calling together the gentry militia, Sophia suppressed the so-called Khovanshchina with the help of Fyodor Shaklovityi, who succeeded Khovansky in charge of the Muscovite army. Silencing the dissatisfied parties until Peter reached his age of majority, Sophia executed Khovansky and the other figureheads of the attempted rebellion.\nDuring the seven years of her regency, Sophia made a few concessions to posads and loosened detention policies towards runaway peasants, which caused dissatisfaction among the nobles. She also made an effort to further the organization of the military. Intrigued by baroque-style architecture, Sophia held responsibility for the promotion of the foreign district, and the creation of the Slavonic-Greek-Latin Academy, the first Russian higher learning institution.\nThe most important highlights of her foreign policy, as engineered by Golitsyn, were the Eternal Peace Treaty of 1686 with Poland, the 1689 Treaty of Nerchinsk with China, and the Crimean campaigns against Turkey. Although spearheaded by Prince Golitsyn, Sophia's reign oversaw two of the earliest diplomatic treaties and underwent inner growth and progress. Despite her other achievements, Sophia's influence and effect on a young Peter remains as the most historically significant portion of her reign, as the rebellion of 1682 bred a distrust in nobility that came to define his leadership.\nDownfall.\nSophia Alekseyevna's regency retained the trappings of a typical regent, and the true tsar was growing into his position with every passing year. At the age of 16, Peter I demanded that Golitsyn report to him regarding all matters, and the Naryshkin family prepared for their long-awaited ascension to power. In 1688, Peter began to promote within his clan, and Sophia remained powerless to halt the gradual shift in control. During this time period, the regent disregarded the young tsar, letting him train his Preobrazhensky and Semenovsky Guards in Preobrazhenskoe.\nAlthough some historians claim Sophia made conscious attempts to neutralize Peter and remove him from the political world, her involvement remains unclear. Sophia and her party had discussed crowning her as tsarina, and in August 1687 had tried persuading the Streltsy to petition on her behalf. Denied their aid, Sophia and her supporters found themselves on the decline in 1688, as the Crimean campaigns brought rioting and unrest to Moscow. To worsen the situation, Peter married, readying himself for rule, and Ivan V fathered a girl, eliminating any potential claim to the throne from that branch.\nTensions between the two factions continued to grow, until Peter I turned 17 years of age, when his Naryshkin relatives demanded that Sophia step down. In response, Shaklovityi advised Sophia to proclaim herself tsarina and attempted to induce the Streltsy to a new uprising. Most of the Streltsy units deserted central Moscow for the suburb of Preobrazhenskoye and later for the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra, where the young tsar was living. Feeling the power slipping from her hands, Sophia sent the boyars and the Patriarch to Peter, asking him to join her in the Kremlin. He flatly refused her overtures, demanding Shaklovityi's execution and Golitsyn's exile.\nAfter Sophia agreed to surrender her senior boyars, she was arrested and forced to withdraw to the Novodevichy Convent without formally taking the veil. Sophia may have made one last attempt at securing power, although her involvement is unclear. Regardless of her conscious intent, her fate was sealed ten years later, when the Streltsy attempted to reinstate her in the Kremlin during Peter's absence from the country. This uprising was suppressed with an iron hand, and soon the corpses of the rebels were suspended in front of Sophia's windows. Having taken the veil, she was kept in the strictest seclusion, with other nuns not allowed to see her except on Easter Sunday. She died in the Novodevichy Convent six years later.\nIn popular culture.\nSophia Alekseyevna appears as a minor character in the wuxia novel \"The Deer and the Cauldron\" by Jin Yong. In the novel, the protagonist Wei Xiaobao goes to Russia and helps her in the coup against her half-brother Peter I. This event led to the peace between China and Russia in the Nerchinsk Treaty.\nVanessa Redgrave portrayed the character of Sophia Alekseyevna in the 1986 miniseries \"Peter the Great\". Her performance received an Emmy award nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Miniseries."}
{"id": "761810", "revid": "1297208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761810", "title": "FL 528", "text": ""}
{"id": "761811", "revid": "1297208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761811", "title": "FL-528", "text": ""}
{"id": "761812", "revid": "2308770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761812", "title": "Catherine-Dominique de P\u00e9rignon", "text": "Catherine-Dominique de P\u00e9rignon, 1st Marquis de P\u00e9rignon (, 31 May 1754 in Grenade \u2013 25 December 1818) was a French general during the French Revolutionary Wars, and was appointed Marshal of the Empire in 1804 by Napoleon Bonaparte.\nEarly life.\nP\u00e9rignon was born to a family of the lesser nobility in Grenade-sur-Garonne, Languedoc. After a \"roturier\" appointment in the grenadier corps of the Aquitaine Regiment, he retired to his estate. P\u00e9rignon welcomed the French Revolution, and gained a seat in the Legislative Assembly (1791), where he sat on the Right, but soon resigned and made his military career during the French Revolutionary Wars.\nRevolutionary Wars.\nFrom 1793 to 1795, P\u00e9rignon held commands in the Army of the Eastern Pyrenees, defeating the Spanish troops at the battle of Escola with \"a sombre kind of energy\". He succeeded Jacques Fran\u00e7ois Dugommier as army commander after that general's death at the Battle of the Black Mountain. He successfully concluded the Siege of Roses in early 1795. In 1796, he was elected by Haute-Garonne to the Council of Five Hundred. He became the French Directory's ambassador to Spain, concluding the Treaty of San Ildefonso against the Kingdom of Great Britain.\nP\u00e9rignon subsequently became involved in a smuggling affair and was compromised by a young woman who was a Royalist spy. In 1798 he was recalled and remanded to the Army in Liguria where he was assigned to command the left wing. Wounded and captured by Second Coalition armies at the Battle of Novi, he returned to France in 1800.\nEmpire and Restoration.\nP\u00e9rignon was a supporter of Napoleon Bonaparte, and was made a senator (1801), Marshal (1804) and count of the French Empire; in 1805, he received the Legion of Honor. From September 18, 1806, to July 23, 1808, he was the Governor-general of the Duchy of Parma. Later moved to the Kingdom of Naples, P\u00e9rignon, recently ennobled, became a close acquaintance of the royal couple (King Joachim Murat and Queen Caroline Bonaparte).\nHe returned to France in 1814 and rallied to the Bourbon Restoration and Louis XVIII - he was stricken off the list of Marshals during the Hundred Days, and voted in favor of the death penalty for Michel Ney. He was raised to \"marquis de P\u00e9rignon\", a Peer of France, and awarded the Order of Saint Louis. As Dr. George Ostermann commented, \"M. de Perignon died as if the Empire he served well, though reluctantly, had never existed.\""}
{"id": "761816", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761816", "title": "OOCEA", "text": ""}
{"id": "761818", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761818", "title": "Telcordia", "text": ""}
{"id": "761820", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761820", "title": "US WEST", "text": ""}
{"id": "761821", "revid": "21035594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761821", "title": "Republic of Croatia", "text": ""}
{"id": "761824", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761824", "title": "Manuel de Rosas", "text": ""}
{"id": "761825", "revid": "13008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761825", "title": "Bismark, North Dakota", "text": ""}
{"id": "761826", "revid": "80765055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761826", "title": "Golden Hind (mythology)", "text": ""}
{"id": "761828", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761828", "title": "Alfredo Ovando Candia", "text": ""}
{"id": "761829", "revid": "1262935040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761829", "title": "Disney Movies", "text": ""}
{"id": "761832", "revid": "41790830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761832", "title": "Leopold I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau", "text": "Leopold I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau (3 July 1676 \u2013 7 April 1747) was a German prince of the House of Ascania and ruler of the Principality of Anhalt-Dessau from 1693 to 1747. He was also a \"Generalfeldmarschall\" in the Prussian Army. Nicknamed \"the Old Dessauer\" (German: \"der alte Dessauer\"), he possessed good abilities as a field commander, but was mainly remembered as a talented drillmaster who modernized the Prussian infantry.\nAppointed by Frederick I to the rank of field marshal in 1712, Leopold distinguished himself for his success during the War of the Spanish Succession. He was later appointed the commander of the Prussian-Saxon army during the Great Northern War against Sweden. Leopold was a personal friend of Frederick William I. The last great achievement of his military career was commanding the Prussian troops to victory over the Saxons at the Battle of Kesselsdorf in 1745 during the Second Silesian War.\nEarly life.\nLeopold was born in Dessau as the ninth of ten children (and the younger of only two sons) of John George II, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau, by his wife Henriette Catherine, daughter of Frederick Henry, Prince of Orange. An older brother had died well before Leopold was born.\nFrom his earliest youth he devoted himself to military pursuits, for which he educated himself both physically and mentally. He became colonel of a Prussian regiment in 1693, and in the same year inherited his own principality; for the remainder of his long life, he performed the duties of a sovereign prince and a Prussian officer simultaneously.\nLeopold's first campaign was that of 1695 in the Netherlands, in which he was present at the Siege of Namur. He remained in the field to the end of the war of 1697, the affairs of the principality being managed chiefly by his mother, the Dowager Princess Henriette Katharina (in fact, she had been acting as regent since the death of his father until he reached adulthood the same year, but continued in charge of the government of Anhalt-Dessau for some time after he attained his majority).\nMilitary career.\nWar of the Spanish Succession.\nLeopold's career as a soldier in important commands began with the outbreak of the War of the Spanish Succession in 1701. He had many improvements made in the Prussian army, notably the introduction of the iron ramrod about 1700, and he now took the field at the head of a Prussian corps on the Rhine, serving at the sieges of Kaiserswerth and Venlo in 1702. In the following year, having obtained the rank of lieutenant-general, Leopold took part in the Siege of Bonn and fought as part of the Battle of Hochstadt, in which the Austrians and their Prussian allies were defeated by the French under Marshal Claude-Louis-Hector de Villars on 20 September 1703. In the campaign of 1704 the Prussian contingent served first under Louis William, Margrave of Baden-Baden, then Prince Eugene of Savoy, and fought at Blenheim.\nIn 1705 Leopold was sent with a Prussian corps to join Prince Eugene in Italy, and on 16 August fought at the Battle of Cassano. In the Battle of Turin, he was the first to enter the hostile entrenchments (7 September 1706). He served in one more campaign in Italy, and then served under Eugene to join Marlborough in the Netherlands, being present in 1709 at the Siege of Tournai and the Battle of Malplaquet.\nIn 1710 Leopold succeeded to the command of the entire Prussian contingent at the French front, and in 1712, he was made a field marshal at the particular request of the crown prince of Prussia, Frederick William, who had served with him as a volunteer. Shortly before this he had executed a \"coup de main\" on the castle of Moers, which had been held by the Dutch in defiance of the claims of the Prussian king to its possession. The operation was effected with absolute precision and the castle was seized without a shot being fired. In the earlier part of the reign of Frederick William I, the prince of Dessau was one of the most influential members of the Prussian governing circle.\nGreat Northern War.\nAlthough Prussia was hostile to Sweden, the Prussians were reluctant to participate in the Great Northern War. Only after the Russians destroyed most of the Swedish army did Prussia enter the war in 1715. Leopold accompanied the king to the front, commanded an army of 40,000 men, and defeated the much smaller force of Charles XII of Sweden in a hard-fought battle on the island of R\u00fcgen on 16 November in alliance with the Danish army of Stralsund. In peacetime, and especially after a court quarrel and duel with General Friedrich Wilhelm von Grumbkow in 1725, he devoted himself to the training of the Prussian army.\nTraining the Prussian Army.\nAlthough the reputation gained by the Prussian army in the wars fought between 1675 and 1715 was a good one, it was still considered one of the minor military forces in Europe by 1740, when the War of the Austrian Succession broke out. Leopold's outstanding achievement just before this time was his training of the Prussian infantry. The \"Old Dessauer\" was one of the sternest disciplinarians in an age of stern discipline, and the technical training of the infantry under his hand made the Prussian infantry into a formidable fighting force whose effectiveness had not yet been demonstrated. Leopold was essentially an infantry soldier; in his time, artillery usually did not decide battles, but he nonetheless chose to neglect the cavalry service, with results that manifested themselves at the Battle of Mollwitz in 1741. Frederick II of Prussia led the cavalry himself at the battles of Hohenfriedberg in 1745 and Leuthen in 1757, but had it not been for the supporting infantry trained by Leopold he would never have had the opportunity to do so.\nThus Leopold, with the steadfast support of King Frederick William I of Prussia, himself one of the greatest drillmasters of Europe, turned to good account the twenty years following the peace with Sweden. During this time two incidents in his career deserve special mention: firstly, his intervention in the case of the crown prince Frederick, who was court-martialed for desertion, but due to his efforts reinstated in the Prussian army; and secondly, his successful role in the War of the Polish Succession on the Rhine, where he served under his old chief Eugene of Savoy and held the office of Field Marshal of the Empire.\nService under Frederick the Great.\nWith the death of Frederick William in 1740, Frederick the Great succeeded to the Prussian throne, and a few months later initiated the invasion and conquest of Silesia, the first action in the long Silesian Wars and the test of Leopold's lifelong efforts to improve the effectiveness of the Prussian army. The prince himself was not often employed in the king's own army, though his sons held high commands under Frederick. The king, indeed, found Leopold somewhat difficult to manage, and the prince spent most of the campaigning years up to 1745 in command of an army of observation on the Saxon frontier.\nEarly in that year his wife died. Leopold was now over seventy, but his last campaign was destined to be the most successful of his long career. A combined effort of the Austrians and Saxons to retrieve the disasters of the summer by a winter campaign towards Berlin itself led to a hurried concentration of the Prussians. Frederick from Silesia checked the Austrian main army and hastened towards Dresden. But before Frederick arrived, Leopold had decided the war by means of his overwhelming victory over Saxons at Kesselsdorf on 14 December 1745. It was his habit to pray before battle, for he was a devout Lutheran. On this last field his words were, \"O Lord God, let me not be disgraced in my old days. Or if Thou wilt not help me, do not help these scoundrels, but leave us to try it ourselves.\" Leopold's career ended with this great victory; when Frederick arrived after the battle, he embraced the Old Dessauer personally. Leopold retired from active service, and the short remainder of his life was spent at Dessau.\nHe was succeeded as prince of Anhalt-Dessau by his son, Leopold II Maximilian. Another of his sons, Dietrich of Anhalt-Dessau, was a Prussian general, but the most famous of his sons was Moritz of Anhalt-Dessau.\nMarriage and issue.\nAs a young prince, Leopold fell in love with Anna Louise F\u00f6hse (\"F\u00f6sen\" according to some sources) (Dessau, 22 March 1677 \u2013 Dessau, 5 February 1745), an apothecary's daughter in Dessau. His mother, the Dowager Princess, tried to break up the relationship, sending her son abroad for an extended travel, but to no avail. One year after officially becoming an adult in 1697, he married his beloved Anna Louise in Dessau on 8 September 1698, forming a union that was morganatic until the imperial decree of 29 December 1701. The couple had ten children:\nOn 29 December 1701 Anna Louise was created an Imperial Princess (German: \"Reichsf\u00fcrstin\") by the Emperor Leopold I, who also declared that their children would be considered princes and princesses of Anhalt (as all of them arguably, and the two born before this decree certainly, would not have otherwise) and would enjoy all the rights that other princes of the Empire enjoy. King Frederick I of Prussia extended his personal guarantee on 12 March 1702, promising to recognize the rights of the issue of this marriage. The agnates of all the branches of Anhalt also gave their agreement a few days later, on 21 March.\nLeopold's court Jew Moses Benjamin Wulff played an important role in the ennobling of Anna.\nLeopold and Anna Louise enjoyed a long and happy marriage, and the princess acquired an influence over her husband that she never ceased to exert on behalf of his subjects. After the death of Leopold's mother she performed the duties of regent when he was absent on campaign. Often, too, she accompanied him into the field.\nIn later life, however, Leopold sired two illegitimate sons by one Sophie Eleonore S\u00f6ldner (Ellrich, 7 September 1710 \u2013 Dessau, 16 September 1779):"}
{"id": "761833", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761833", "title": "Land baron", "text": ""}
{"id": "761834", "revid": "16570263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761834", "title": "Leopold I of Anhalt-Dessau", "text": ""}
{"id": "761835", "revid": "861759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761835", "title": "A Game of Thrones (card game)", "text": "A Game of Thrones: The Card Game (or AGoT, for short) is an out-of-print collectible card game produced by Fantasy Flight Games. It is based on \"A Song of Ice and Fire\", a series of novels written by George R. R. Martin. The first set was Westeros Edition and was released in August 2002. It has since won two Origins Awards. The game's primary designer is Eric Lang, the lead developer is Nate French, and Damon Stone serves as associate designer. \nIn late 2007, the A Game of Thrones CCG was converted to the A Game of Thrones LCG (Living Card Game), which ended the random booster packs in favor of fixed packs. The game continued until FFG launched in 2015.\nIn the game, players assume the leadership of one of the great houses of Westeros vying for control of King's Landing and the Iron Throne. To accomplish this, players launch military attacks against their opponents, undermine their opponents\u2019 plans with intrigues of their own, and make power plays to win the support of the realm.\nFactions.\nEach house represents one of the main factions involved in the struggle for the Iron Throne emulated by the AGoT LCG. Each house provides different strengths and weaknesses, allowing for various play styles to interact within the same game. Certain cards are restricted to one or two houses, giving each house a unique flavor. Currently, there are eight playable factions in the AGoT LCG. Each is identified by a shield bearing the arms of the house, located in the upper right corner of the card.\nOther factions.\nSome great houses featured in \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" are not represented as individual Houses in the \"AGoT\" LCG, but still appear in the game. House Tully is present in the game as a subset of their allies, House Stark. House Lannister and House Baratheon both feature numerous House Tyrell cards, and several significant House Tyrell characters were featured as promotional cards. House Tyrell also features prominently in the \"A House of Thorns\" expansion, as does House Bolton to a smaller extent. Other lesser houses also appear in the game, in service to the Great Houses to which they are sworn. Several House Frey cards also make an appearance, primarily as neutral cards. House Arryn is a prominent theme in \"A House of Talons\".\nIn addition to the noble houses, the \"AGoT\" LCG also features many other factions present in \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" as part of a particular theme. Example: The Wildlings are featured in \"Winter Block\", while the Asshai'i have been a sub theme over many expansions.\nCards.\nEach player supplies his or her own deck to play the game. A deck consists of a \"House Card\" or \"Alliance\" to represent the player's faction, an optional \"Agenda\" that modifies his faction, a plot deck that consists of exactly seven \"Plot\" cards, and then a main draw deck of at least 60 cards consisting of \"Characters\", \"Attachments\", \"Locations\", and \"Events\".\nHouse cards.\nEach House card represents one of the main factions involved in the War of the Five Kings. Each House provides different strengths and weaknesses, allowing for various playstyles to interact within the same game. The House card selected will often restrict cards allowed in the remainder of the deck, by limiting cards that are marked as being allowed solely for another House.\nCharacters, Locations, and Attachments often have a House affiliation, and often are used in decks running a matching House card. Some cards have no House affiliation, and such neutral cards may be used freely in any deck. Cards with House affiliations other than the chosen House card may be used, providing the card itself has no restriction, but require an extra expenditure of resources to bring them into play.\nAgenda cards (optional).\nIntroduced in Valyrian Block, any deck using a House card (but not an Alliance card) may use one Agenda card. Agenda cards either modify the rules for building the player's deck, or grant an in-game advantage, typically at the cost of some other disadvantage such as requiring extra power to win, reduced card draw, or limiting claimed power.\nPlot cards.\nPlot cards are generally regarded as the defining feature of \"A Game of Thrones: The Card Game\". Unlike the shuffled and randomly drawn resource deck, at the beginning of each round, each player chooses a new plot card to be revealed, which will have an effect on the round to be played, allowing for a strategic element to an otherwise random game.\nPlot cards indicate the base amount of gold available for the player to use to bring new cards into play during his \"Marshalling\" phase (indicated by a number within a gold coin), a base initiative value to determine the order of play for the round (indicated by a number within a diamond), a base claim value to determine the scope of the effect that player winning a challenge (indicated by a number in a silver disk), and a text box detailing any other effects or restrictions on the plot card, including any \"traits\" that it might have.\nMost plot cards are designed with built-in trade-offs, sacrificing high claim for low income, or some other game mechanic drawback.\nCharacter cards.\nCharacter cards represent the unique characters from the \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" novels, such as Eddard Stark, as well as generic individuals and massed groupings (such as armies) that can be found there. Generally, characters are the main focus of a deck as they are the principle card type used to participate in challenges, and thus collect the power tokens necessary to win.\nAttributes of a Character card consist of a gold cost (generally represented by a number overlaid on a gold coin in the upper left corner), a name across the top that may be preceded by a black flag if the character is unique and/or an infinity symbol if the character is \"endless\", a House affiliation (represented by one or more House shields in the upper right corner, although neutral characters will have a blank shield), artwork depicting the character in the top half of the card, a strength value (represented by a number on a stylized tapestry or a nondescript shield in the middle of the left side), zero to three challenge icons (a red axe represents Military, a green eye represents Intrigue, and a blue crown represents Power) arrayed in the bottom half of the left side, and a text box in the lower half of the card.\nWithin the textbox may be \"traits\", \"keywords\", other game effects or icons, and flavour text from the novels. Traits are bold and italicized words at the top of the textbox, and usually represent roles or groups within the world of \"A Song of Ice and Fire\", such as Lords or Dothraki. They have no game function themselves, but instead are used to group characters together in order for other game effects to be used by or against varied groups of characters. Keywords are game mechanics defined in the rules that affect that character, such as No Attachments, which prevents any attachments from being placed on that character.\nAttachment cards.\nAttachments are cards that are used exclusively to modify other cards. An attachment may not be in play unless it is attached to the proper type of card, typically a character card unless the attachment itself says otherwise.\nAttributes of an Attachment card consist of a gold cost (generally represented by a number overlaid on a gold coin in the upper left corner), a name across the top that may be proceeded by a black flag if the attachment is unique and/or an infinity symbol if the attachment is \"endless\", a House affiliation (represented by one or more House shields in the upper right corner, although neutral attachments will have no shield), artwork depicting the attachment in the top half of the card, and a text box in the lower half of the card. Throughout the Winter block, some cards were printed with a black crow icon in the bottom left corner to indicate the attachment is \"Doomed\". It is unknown if such attachments will appear again.\nWithin the textbox may be \"traits\", \"keywords\", other game effects or icons, and flavour text from the novels. Traits are bold and italicized words at the top of the textbox, and usually represent types of enhancements, such as skills or titles. They have no game function themselves, but instead are used to group attachments together in order for other game effects to be used by or against varied groups of attachments. Keywords are game mechanics defined in the rules that affect that attachment such as Setup, which allows the attachment to be played at the beginning of the game unlike normal attachments.\nOccasionally, game effects can cause cards to become face-down attachments attached to specific other cards. These function the same as normal attachments, except they are treated as having no names, no text, no gold costs, no House affiliations, and are discarded if they are ever forced to leave play.\nLocation cards.\nLocation cards represent the unique places in the setting of the \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" novels, such as King's Landing, generic regions such as fiefdoms, and even mobile locations such as sailing vessels and warships. Many locations are used to supply additional \"income\", \"influence\", but a wide variety of effects are present.\nAttributes of a Location card consist of a gold cost (generally represented by a number overlaid on a gold coin in the upper left corner), a name across the top that may be preceded by a black flag if the location is unique, a House affiliation (represented by one or more House shields in the upper right corner, although neutral locations will have no shield), artwork depicting the location in the top half of the card, and a text box in the lower half of the card.\nWithin the textbox may be \"traits\", \"keywords\", other game effects or icons, and flavour text from the novels. Traits are bold and italicized words at the top of the textbox, and usually represent regions within the world of A Song of Ice and Fire, such as Westeros or Dorne. They have no game function themselves, but instead are used to group locations together in order for other game effects to be used by or against varied groups of locations. Keywords are game mechanics defined in the rules that affect that location, such as Limited which restricts the player to playing one such card per round.\nEvent cards.\nEvent cards represent special actions or happenings from the \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" novels that can be used in the course of the game. Certain events may be restricted so that they may only be played by a specific House, and some may only affect cards of a particular House affiliation. Event cards generally have a play restriction or a cost of some type which may be paid in influence, gold, or possibly by modifying the game state of one or more characters, locations, attachments or house card.\nAttributes of an Event card consist of a name across the top that may be preceded by a black flag if the event is unique and/or an infinity symbol if the event is \"endless\", artwork depicting the event in the top half of the card, and a text box in the lower half of the card.\nWithin the textbox may be \"traits\", \"keywords\", but primarily will be one or more game effects, and flavour text from the novels. Traits are bold and italicized words at the top of the textbox, and usually represent specific types of events such as \"Small Council\". They have no game function themselves, but instead are used to group events together in order for other game effects to be used by or against varied groups of events. Keywords are game mechanics defined in the rules that affect that event, such as Deathbound directing a used event to the dead pile instead of the normal discard pile.\nRules.\nDeck construction.\nEach player participating in an A Game of Thrones game uses two decks: 1) a 7 card \"plot\" deck and 2) a 60+ (40+ for draft) card \"draw\" deck of \"characters\", \"attachments\", \"locations\", and \"events\". During play the \"draw\" deck cards will often end up in other game play areas including the \"discard pile\" (cards discarded from play) and the \"dead pile\" (cards that were killed or are marked with the Deathbound keyword). Typically, players are only allowed three copies of any particular card (as determined by the card name, regardless of card type or game text similarity) in their \"draw\" deck, and only one copy of any particular card, by name, in their \"plot\" deck, but these restrictions can be modified by some other cards, such as the Twins agenda.\nWinning conditions.\nA player must earn 15 power tokens between their House card and characters in play to win A Game of Thrones. Numerous cards in the game can change the amount a player or his opponent are required to earn in order to win. Generally, power tokens are earned by winning challenges against an opponent, but some cards allow a player to directly claim power for his House card or characters in other ways.\nSetup.\nAt the beginning of the game, each player shuffles their \"draw\" deck, and draws the top 7 cards, with an option for a \"mulligan\" given to each player to shuffle and draw a new hand. From this initial hand, each player is able to select up to 5 gold worth of characters, locations, and attachments with the Setup keyword, but no more than 1 card of any type with the Limited keyword, from their hand; these cards are placed face-down until all players are ready to reveal their initial cards in play. Once all cards are revealed, players draw cards again until they each have 7 cards in their hand again.\nRounds and phases.\nThe game is played through repeated rounds until one or more players meets the winning condition, or all but one player has met the elimination condition. Rounds are divided into 7 phases, with each phase allowing players to alternate actions that affect the game state in some way.\nThe first phase every round is the \"Plot\" phase. Each player selects one unused plot from his \"plot\" deck, and all players reveal their chosen plots simultaneously. Initiative values from plot cards and other resources are tallied, and the player with the highest initiative chooses which player will go first in each phase of the current round. The textbox effects of plots are then resolved in the order chosen by the first player.\nIn the second phase, the \"Draw\" phase, each player is allowed to draw two cards from their \"draw\" deck.\nAlthough divided into turns for each player, the \"Marshalling\" phase is a single phase for all players. At the beginning of each player's turn in the Marshalling phase, the player counts all income from plot card and any other resources available. The player is then able to bring new resources in the form of characters, locations, and attachments into play by spending the gold. Some events and other triggered effects also require the payment of gold, and unused income is not carried over into other rounds, so resource management is important.\nThe fourth phase is the \"Challenge\" phase. As with the \"Marshalling\" phase, each player has a turn to initiate challenges against other players. Generally, players may initiate one each of \"Military\", \"Intrigue\", and \"Power\" challenges each round, but several cards can allow extra challenges to be initiated or deny certain challenges at all. Also, in a multiplayer game, he can either use all his challenges on one opponent or divide them among his adversaries. He doesn't have to use all of them. Challenges can be initiated in any order, and require a player to \"kneel\" one or more characters with an icon matching the challenge type to begin the challenge. Then, the player being attacked may kneel one or more characters to attempt to oppose the challenge. Once all player actions are taken, the player with the highest total strength in the challenge wins. If the defending player wins, nothing special occurs, but if the attacker wins, then the defender suffers losses depending on the type of challenge initiated.\nIn the fifth phase, the \"Dominance\" phase, each player counts the total strength of all controlled characters that are still \"standing\", plus the amount of gold still remaining in his possession (unspent). The player with the highest total wins dominance that round, and claims 1 power token for his House, taken from the power common pool.\nIn the \"Standing\" phase each player changes each \"kneeling\" card to \"standing\".\nWith the LCG format came a new phase, the \"Taxation\" phase, in which each player returns unspent gold to the common pool (in the CCG format, players could not use gold outside of their turn in the Marshalling phase).\nCommon game terms and rules.\n\"Kneeling\" and \"standing\" are the two possible game states for each card in the game, although there is a special \"moribund\" state that's further explained in the faq on FFG website. \"Standing\" cards are upright, and are ready for use to pay for effects, or to initiate or defend challenges. \"Kneeling\" cards are rotated 90 degrees to the side, to indicate that they've been used to pay for an effect, or to initiate or defend a challenge. Some game effects are able to \"kneel\" cards (changing them from \"standing\" to \"kneeling\") or \"stand\" cards (changing them from \"kneeling\" to \"standing\") in order to manipulate the resources a player has available.\n\"Unique\" cards represent the special individuals, places, items, and happenings in the world of A Song of Ice and Fire. Unique cards may not be played if the player already has a copy of that card in play, or if a copy of that card can be found in the player's dead pile. Unique characters, locations, and attachments may be placed with copies that are already in play to serve as \"duplicates\". Duplicates may be discarded to save the unique card from being killed or discard.\n\"Triggered Effects\" are a type of game effect that a player chooses to use in order to change the game state in some way. Triggered effects are indicated by a bold name of a phase (one of \"Plot\", \"Draw\", \"Marshalling\", \"Challenges\", \"Dominance\", or \"Standing\") or \"Any phase\" to indicate when the effect may be used. Another timing word that may precede a triggered effect is a bold \"Response\", which indicates that the effect may only be used in response to another occurrence in the game. \"Triggered abilities\" are a subset of triggered effects, and are specifically triggered effects that are written on cards currently in play.\n\"Passive Effects\" are game effects that have no bold timing restriction indicated, but instead happen whenever certain prerequisites are met, such as a character coming into play.\n\"Constant Abilities\" are game effects written on cards in play that have an ongoing effect on the game state.\n\"Influence\" is indicated on various characters, locations, and attachments in the game by a number on a scroll in the textbox of the card. In the Valyrian block, influence was introduced as an additional resource to manage, requiring players to kneel one or more cards with a specific total amount of influence to pay for an effect.\nNormally, once a game effect has been initiated, it fully resolves without an interruption. However, once an effect is begun, there is a chance for specific effects to \"Cancel\" the initial effect. If the effect is cancelled, all costs stay paid, use limitations remain, but the effects do not occur.\n\"Kill\" means removing a character from play, and placing that character in the \"dead pile\". Kill effects only work on characters, including other cards that are currently functioning as characters, but other cards can be placed in the dead pile through various game effects, such as the Deathbound keyword.\n\"Discard\", when occurring without the modifier \"from hand\", means to take a card that is in play, and place it in the \"discard pile\".\nGenerally, whenever an effect targets a card to be killed or discarded, players are given a chance to \"Save\" the card from the effect, either by discarding a duplicate of the targeted card or by using another game effect. If a card is saved, it is not removed from play, and it is not considered killed or discarded.\nOrganized play.\nNight's Watch.\nFantasy Flight Games has an official group of volunteers that organize sanctioned tournaments for A Game of Thrones. The Night's Watch are named after the guardians of The Wall in northern Westeros in the fictional setting of \"A Song of Ice and Fire\". These volunteers organize tournaments, arrange demonstration games for new and interested players, and hand out promotional materials provided by FFG.\nTournaments.\nThere are several different official tournament types sanctioned by FFG. In the \"Classic\" format, players bring their own decks, which may include cards from any set, as long as the card is not on the banned list. In \"Standard\" format, players bring their own decks, which may only include cards from the most recent blocks. , only cards released since Valyrian block are legal in Standard format. In \"Limited\" format, players instead build their decks at the tournament, using provided draft packs (in \"Limited - Draft\") or starter decks (in \"Limited - Sealed Deck\") and booster packs.\nAside from the restrictions on usable card pool, FFG places no limits on how Night's Watch volunteers organize the tournaments.\nWorld and Continental Championships.\nThe A Game of Thrones World Championships were held yearly at Gen Con Indy until 2012, when they moved to Fantasy Flight's Event Centre in Minneapolis, with Gencon being redesignated North American Championships. Part of the winner's prize is the opportunity to design their own card.\nSets and expansions.\nWhen it was released, A Game of Thrones was introduced as a CCG. The cards for the AGoT CCG were organized into numerous sets and expansions that could be mixed together and used interchangeably. A \"block\" consisted of a \"base set\", up to two \"expansion sets\", a \"premium starter\", and often one or more promotional cards.\nTypically, a base set consisted of 240 cards available in either starter decks, consisting of a mix of fixed cards and a random assortment of other cards, or booster packs, consisting of 11 randomly sorted cards, of which 1 is rare, 3 are uncommon, and 7 are common. Booster packs were generally shipped in groups of 36, creating booster boxes. Expansion sets typically contained 150 cards, and were only distributed as booster packs similar to those of a base set. Premium Starters consisted of two or three pre-built decks of fixed cards, typically reprints from earlier sets, but also introducing 10 new cards as well.\nWithin a base set and expansion set, the cards were divided into groups based on their frequency of appearance, with rare cards being included the least frequent, uncommon cards slightly more frequent, and common cards being the most frequent. Also available in regular and premium starters were a specific number of fixed cards that always appeared in that packaging. Also available were \"draft packs\" which consisted of 1 \"draft\" card, 5 \"plot\" cards, 6 \"house\" cards and 8 \"locations\" that are generally useful to any deck, and allow for a more level competitive field during \"draft\" tournaments.\nIn late 2007, the A Game of Thrones CCG was converted to the A Game of Thrones LCG (Living Card Game), which ended the random booster packs in favor of fixed packs, called Chapter Packs, released on a roughly monthly basis. Chapter packs consist of 60 fixed cards - 3 copies of 20 cards. The Core Set consists of 4 preconstructed decks consisting of Stark, Lannister, Baratheon, and Targaryen, and is marketed as a starting point for a new player. It will also include a game board, power tokens, gold tokens, as well as game pieces to use for the multiplayer titles. Along with the switch to the LCG, there has also been more of a focus on the multiplayer aspect of the game, now referred to as Melee, rather than the head-to-head play, now referred to as Joust.\nPromotional cards are usually provided as prizes for participating in FFG registered tournaments, by attending certain conventions, or buying other A Game of Thrones promotional packages.\nIndustry awards.\nThe game's first base set - \"Westeros Edition\" - won the 2002 Origins Award for \"Best Trading Card Game of 2002\". The second base set - \"Ice and Fire Edition\" - followed next year and won the 2003 Origins Award for \"Best Card Game Expansion or Supplement of 2003\"."}
{"id": "761839", "revid": "159678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761839", "title": "Huron (tribe)", "text": ""}
{"id": "761841", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761841", "title": "Roger Clemens Award", "text": "The Roger Clemens Award was an award that honored the top NCAA Division I college baseball pitcher of the year. The award was created prior to the 2004 season and succeeded the Rotary Smith Award.\nRoger Clemens was an extremely successful college player with the Texas Longhorns before starting his scandal-riddled professional career.\nThe winner was determined by a vote of all Division I head coaches, selected members of the media, all past winners of the Roger Clemens Award, and all past winners of the Rotary Smith Award. The award was discontinued following the 2008 college baseball season.\nSince 2009, the National Pitcher of the Year Award, presented by the College Baseball Foundation, now honors the top NCAA Division I college baseball pitcher of the year."}
{"id": "761843", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761843", "title": "Teno Haruka", "text": ""}
{"id": "761844", "revid": "50169191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761844", "title": "Prince Moritz of Anhalt-Dessau", "text": "Maurice of Anhalt-Dessau (31 October 1712 in Dessau - 11 April 1760 in Dessau), was a German prince of the House of Ascania from the Anhalt-Dessau branch. He was also a Prussian soldier and \"Generalfeldmarschall\".\nEarly life.\nMaurice was the fifth son of Leopold I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau, by his morganatic wife, Anna Louise F\u00f6hse.\nMilitary career.\nMaurice entered the Prussian army in 1725, and saw his first service as a volunteer in the War of the Polish Succession (1734\u201335). In the later years of the reign of Frederick William I of Prussia, he held important commands. In the Silesian wars of Frederick the Great, Maurice, the ablest of old Leopold's sons, greatly distinguished himself, especially at the Battle of Hohenfriedberg in 1745.\nAt Kesselsdorf it was the wing led by the young Maurice that carried the Austrian lines and won his father Leopold's last campaign. In the years of peace preceding the Seven Years' War, Moritz was employed by Frederick the Great in the colonization of the wastelands of Pomerania and the Oder Valley. When the king took the field again in 1756, Maurice was in command of one of the columns which hemmed in the Saxon army in the lines of Pirna, and he received the surrender of Rutowski's force after the failure of the Austrian attempts at relief.\nDuring the next year Maurice suffered a change in his fortunes. At the Battle of Kolin he led the left wing, which, through a misunderstanding with the King, was prematurely drawn into action and failed hopelessly. In the disastrous days that followed, Maurice was subject to Frederick's displeasure. But the glorious Victory of Leuthen on 5 December 1757, put an end to this. At the close of that day, Frederick rode down the lines and called out to General Prince Maurice, \"I congratulate you, Herr \"Feldmarschall\"!\" At Zorndorf he again distinguished himself, but at the surprise of Hochkirch he fell wounded into the hands of the Austrians. Maurice suffered blood poisoning from the wound and succumbed soon after his release from captivity. "}
{"id": "761845", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761845", "title": "Huron River (disambiguation)", "text": "The Huron River is a river in southeast Michigan that empties into Lake Erie.\nHuron River may also refer to:"}
{"id": "761846", "revid": "3000221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761846", "title": "Henschel Hs 127", "text": "The Henschel Hs 127 was a German bomber that was built as two prototypes, but cancelled without entering mass production.\nDesign and development.\nIn 1935, the RLM (\"Reichsluftfahrtministerium\" - German Ministry of Aviation) published requests for a fast tactical bomber. Junkers, Focke-Wulf, Messerschmitt and Henschel all submitted designs.\nAccording to RLM specifications, the aircraft was to be able to maintain a speed of 500\u00a0km/h (313\u00a0mph) for 30 minutes, take-off to a height of 20\u00a0m (65\u00a0ft) in not more than 750\u00a0m (2,460\u00a0ft), and carry one defensive machine gun and 500\u2013800\u00a0kg (1,100-1,760\u00a0lb) of bombs. The crew was to consist of a pilot, a bombardier/navigator and a gunner.\nFocke-Wulf soon withdrew from participation, so three projects were presented: the future Hs 127, the Junkers Ju 88 and the Messerschmitt Bf 162. Prototypes were ordered of all three, with new Daimler-Benz DB 600 engines to be installed on all three types.\nThe maiden flight of the Hs 127 V1 was at the end of 1937. The aircraft was smaller and lighter than the Ju 88 and had a very good top speed of 565\u00a0km/h (353\u00a0mph), but the Ju 88 was chosen because of its bigger bomb load.\nIn May 1938, the contract for Hs 127 development was cancelled by the RLM and the third prototype was not finished.\nThe Hs 127 was a low-wing monoplane with monocoque fuselage. Its two-spar wing had an all-metal covering and was equipped with flaps. Its retractable gear had shock-absorbers to facilitate operations from poor airstrips. All three crew members sat in the nose."}
{"id": "761847", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761847", "title": "Mahmud Fahmi an-Nuqrasi Pasha", "text": ""}
{"id": "761848", "revid": "42470035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761848", "title": "Mahmoud El Nokrashy Pasha", "text": "Mahmoud Fahmy El Nokrashy Pasha (April 26, 1888 \u2013 December 28, 1948) (, ) was an Egyptian political figure. He was the twenty-seventh prime minister of the Kingdom of Egypt.\nEarly life and education.\nNokrashy was born in Alexandria on 26 April 1888 to a middle-class family. His father was an Egyptian accountant, and his mother, Hanifa was of Turkish origin. Nokrashy was a graduate of the Ras Al Tin high school.\nCareer.\nNokrashy Pasha was a member of the Saadist Institutional Party (SIP) which supported a liberal monarchist programme. He was also a member of the secret apparatus of the Wafd Party, Egypt's then main nationalist party.\nNokrashy Pasha served as the prime minister of Egypt twice. His first term was from 1945 to 1946 (he initially came to power after the murder of Ahmad Mahir Pasha) and the second from 1946 to 1948. His second cabinet was a coalition government comprising members of the Saadist Institutional Party and the Liberal Constitutional Party. \nIn 1948, Nokrashy Pasha became very concerned with the assertiveness and popularity of the Muslim Brotherhood. Rumours of a Brotherhood coup against the monarchy and government had appeared, and the Brotherhood had already been implicated in the killing of Nokrashy Pasha's predecessor. Shortly after these rumours first gained currency, the prime minister formally outlawed the Brotherhood in December 1948, and this led directly to his own assassination. In addition to the Brotherhood being officially declared an illegal organization, the assets of the Brotherhood were seized by the government and many Brotherhood members went to prison.\nAssassination.\nLess than three weeks after these activities against the Brotherhood, Nokrashy Pasha was gunned down by Abdel Meguid Ahmed Hassan, who was a veterinary student at the University of King Fouad I and another member of the Brotherhood. The slaying occurred on 28 December 1948 at 10:00 am. Nokrashy Pasha was killed in the main building of the Ministry of Interior by Hassan, who was wearing the uniform of a lieutenant. Hassan shot him twice. This crime in turn led to the assassination (by the political police) of Muslim Brotherhood leader Hasan Al Banna on 12 February 1949: despite the fact that Banna had condemned the murder of the prime minister, and had publicly called it a terrorist act incompatible with Islam.\nHassan was arrested after the murder, and confessed that he was a member of the Brotherhood. He reported that it was the prime minister's decision to crack down upon the Brotherhood that had motivated him to carry out the shooting. Found guilty at his trial, he was soon afterwards hanged; three men who had knowingly helped him plan the assassination were sentenced to penal servitude for life."}
{"id": "761852", "revid": "14548726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761852", "title": "Leopold II, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau", "text": "Leopold II Maximilian, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau (25 December 1700 \u2013 16 December 1751), was a German prince of the House of Ascania and ruler of the principality of Anhalt-Dessau from 1747 to 1751; he also was a Prussian general.\nLife.\nLeopold was born at Dessau as the second son of Leopold I, Prince of Anhalt-Dessau, by his morganatic wife Anna Louise F\u00f6hse.\nAt only nine years of age, he accompanied his father on his military duties for the Prussian army. In 1715 he was appointed Lieutenant Colonel-in-Chief of the Infantry Regiment No. 27 of Stendal. In 1733 he led the Prussian forces stationed in the city of M\u00fchlhausen in Thuringia during the First Silesian War.\nThe death in 1737 of his elder brother, the Hereditary Prince William Gustav, made Leopold the new heir of Dessau. The late prince was already married and had nine children, but his wife was of non-noble birth; for this reason, the issue of the marriage was barred from succession. After the death of his father in 1747, Leopold inherited Anhalt-Dessau.\nLeopold was one of the best subordinate generals who served under Frederick the Great of Prussia. He distinguished himself in the capture of Glogau in 1741 and at the battles of Mollwitz, Chotusitz (where he was made \"Generalfeldmarschall\" on the field of battle), Hohenfriedberg, and Soor.\nHe died at Dessau in 1751. In 1752 Frederick the Great named a newly founded village Leopoldshagen (est. 1748) in his honour.\nMarriage and issue.\nIn Bernburg on 25 May 1737 Leopold married Gisela Agnes (b. K\u00f6then, 21 September 1722 \u2013 d. Dessau, 20 April 1751), daughter of Leopold, Prince of Anhalt-K\u00f6then. They had seven children:"}
{"id": "761853", "revid": "47657607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761853", "title": "Jaime Nun\u00f3", "text": "Jaime Nun\u00f3 Roca (8 September 1824 \u201318 July 1908) was a Spanish composer from Catalonia who composed the music for the Mexican national anthem.\nEarly life and education.\nNun\u00f3 was born on 8 September 1824, in Sant Joan de les Abadesses, a town in the province of Girona, in Catalonia, Spain. Both his parents, Francisco Nun\u00f3 and Magdalena Roca, died before his ninth birthday. After their death, Nun\u00f3 was raised by his uncle Bernard, a seller of silks in Barcelona, who financed his musical studies in that city. There he demonstrated his skill as a soloist in the city cathedral, as well as a choir director and organist, for which he gained a scholarship to study with the composer Saverio Mercadante in Naples, Italy.\nCareer.\nUpon Nun\u00f3's return to Barcelona, he was named director of the Queen's Regimental Band in 1851 and travelled with them to Cuba where he met and befriended Antonio L\u00f3pez de Santa Anna, the former Mexican president.\nWhen Santa Anna returned to Mexico in 1853 to again resume the office of president, he invited Jaime Nun\u00f3 to lead the Mexican military bands. His arrival coincided with the national call to compose the Mexican National Anthem. Nun\u00f3 participated, composing music for the lyrics of Mexican poet Francisco Gonz\u00e1lez Bocanegra, and was declared the winner on 12 August 1854. The anthem made its debut at the Santa Anna Theater, on 15 September 1854, and was performed by soprano Claudina Florentini and Lorenzo Salvi, tenor and conducted by Master Vitessiri, with the orchestra of the Great Italian Opera Company. \nAfter the overthrow of President Santa Anna, Nun\u00f3 emigrated to the U.S. and worked as a conductor and opera director, conducting the concerts of Sigismond Thalberg in New York City.\nLater life and death.\nAfter a time in Spain, he returned to the U.S. and settled in Buffalo, New York, where he was found by a Mexican journalist in 1901. When this news reached Mexico, the current president, Porfirio D\u00edaz, invited him to return; he did so and received various honors between 1901 and 1904. He died in New York on 18 July 1908 and was buried in Buffalo. In 1942 the Mexican government ordered that his remains be exhumed and interred in the Rotonda de los Hombres Ilustres () in Mexico City, where they remain.\nLegacy.\nIn 2010, coinciding with the bicentennial of Mexico's independence, the Catalan musicologists Cristian Canton and Raquel Tovar located the only descendant of Jaime Nun\u00f3, his great-grandson, living in the U.S. at Pelham, New York. The family granted access to the personal archive of Jaime Nun\u00f3, containing about 5,000 unpublished documents (personal letters, scores, official documents, etc.); all this information allowed Canton and Tovar writing the first complete biography of Nun\u00f3. This book had a high media coverage and has been described as \"an essential title to understand the musical history of Mexico\". Also, in the context of the rediscovery of the figure of Jaume Nun\u00f3, his native town, Sant Joan de les Abadesses, opened a museum dedicated to the composer in his birth house, known as \"El Palm\u00e0s\". Since the recovery of these documents, the unpublished music of Jaime Nun\u00f3 has been played again, a complete edition of his works was published in 2012 and a recording of them was expected in 2014."}
{"id": "761855", "revid": "48736052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761855", "title": "Maude Nugent", "text": "Maude Nugent (January 12, 1873 or 1874 \u2013 June 3, 1958) was an American singer and composer.\nBiography.\nMaude Nugent was born in Brooklyn, New York. She became a vaudeville singer, singing at venues like The Abbey and Tony Pastor's.\nIn 1896, she composed and wrote the lyrics to \"Sweet Rosie O'Grady\", which became one of the most popular waltz standards of the time. The song was initially rejected when she tried to sell it to Tin Pan Alley publisher Joseph W. Stern &amp; Co. Stern's partner Edward Marks recounted that they changed their minds as soon as she left their office to market it elsewhere, and he chased her down the street to make an offer. The sheet music for the song sold over a million copies. In 1899, it was recorded by Lil Hawthorne for Berliner Gramophone. It was the main song in the 1943 Betty Grable film Sweet Rosie O'Grady.\nNugent continued to compose songs for a number of years, but none approached the success of \"Rosie O'Grady\". Nugent performed her own songs, introducing many of them to audiences in this manner. Occasionally she collaborated with her husband, fellow-songwriter William Jerome.\nNugent retired from performing when she was 28 in order to raise a family; however, she continued to write music. In the 1940s and 1950s, \"Gay Nineties\" revues came into vogue and Nugent began to perform again on television, including The Ed Sullivan Show.\nShe died June 3, 1958, in New York.\nThe song \"Sweet Rosie O'Grady\" has a few lines in the musical \"Hello, Dolly!\"."}
{"id": "761859", "revid": "3525933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761859", "title": "Kr\u00fcger", "text": ""}
{"id": "761860", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761860", "title": "USS Abel P. Upshur", "text": "USS \"Abel P. Upshur\" (DD-193) was a in the service of the United States Navy and United States Coast Guard until transferred to the United Kingdom in 1940. During World War II, she served in the Royal Navy as HMS \"Clare\".\nConstruction and commissioning.\nNamed after Secretary of the Navy, Abel Parker Upshur, she was laid down on 20 August 1918 at Newport News, Virginia by the Newport News Shipbuilding &amp; Dry-dock Co. The ship was launched on 14 February 1920, sponsored by Mrs. George J. Benson, great-great niece of Secretary Upshur, and commissioned at the Norfolk Navy Yard on 23 November 1920.\nService history.\nUnited States.\nFollowing her commissioning, \"Abel P. Upshur\" was assigned to Destroyer Division 37, Squadron 3, Atlantic Fleet. She cruised along the United States East Coast, taking part in fleet exercises and maneuvers. The ship was placed out of commission at the Philadelphia Navy Yard on 7 August 1922.\n\"Abel P. Upshur\" assumed duties at the Washington Navy Yard in March 1928 as a training ship for Naval Reserve personnel from the District of Columbia and continued this routine until 5 November 1930, when the ship was transferred to the U.S. Treasury Department. Her name was then struck from the Navy list. The ship served the Coast Guard attempting to prevent the smuggling of liquor into the United States.\n\"Abel P. Upshur\" was returned to Navy custody on 21 May 1934 but was laid up at Philadelphia until 4 December 1939, when she was again placed in commission and assigned to the Atlantic Squadron. The ship operated along the U.S. East Coast on the Neutrality Patrol.\nOn 9 September 1940, \"Abel P. Upshur\" was decommissioned at Halifax, Nova Scotia. The vessel was transferred to Britain under an agreement by which, the United States exchanged 50 overage destroyers for bases on British colonial territory in the Atlantic. Her name was again struck from the Navy list on 8 January 1941.\nUnited Kingdom.\nAs HMS \"Clare\", she was assigned to the 1st Flotilla and arrived at Belfast, Northern Ireland, on 26 September 1940. \"Clare\" joined Escort Group 7 and escorted transatlantic convoys. On 20 February 1941, she rescued the crew of the sinking British steamship \"Rigmor\". In the early hours of 21 February, the destroyer collided with the motor vessel \"Petertoum\" and suffered some damage.\nAfter undergoing repairs at Plymouth, England, between March and October, \"Clare\" resumed convoy duty with Escort Group 41, Western Approaches Command. \"Clare\" was modified for long range trade convoy escort service by removal of the two forward boilers and substitution of additional fuel tanks. This modification improved endurance but reduced top speed to 25 knots. Three of the original /50 caliber guns and one of the triple torpedo tube mounts were removed to reduce topside weight for additional depth charge stowage and installation of Hedgehog anti-submarine mortars.\nIn the fall of 1942, the destroyer took part in the landings of the invasion of North Africa Operation \"Torch.\" As a member of the Eastern Naval Task Force, she covered landings near Algiers. On 12 November 1942, the destroyer attacked a German U-boat in waters north of Oran, Algeria, and claimed to have sunk the enemy vessel. \"Clare\" left Gibraltar on 17 November 1942, returned to Britain, and resumed transatlantic convoy duty.\nIn July 1943, the ship participated in the invasion of Sicily. She entered drydock at Cardiff, Wales in September of that year, returned to action in May 1944, and served as a target ship for aircraft in the Western Approaches Command. In August 1945, \"Clare\" was reduced to reserve at Greenock, Scotland. Declared obsolete, she was allocated for scrap in 1947, arriving at Troon on 18 February 1947 to be broken up by West of Scotland Shipbreaking Co Ltd."}
{"id": "761862", "revid": "11569013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761862", "title": "Boghos Nubar Pasha", "text": ""}
{"id": "761865", "revid": "49559351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761865", "title": "Cuauht\u00e9moc Blanco", "text": "Cuauht\u00e9moc Blanco Bravo (; born 17 January 1973) is a Mexican politician and former professional footballer serving as a member of the Chamber of Deputies.\nHe served as the Governor of Morelos from 2018 to 2024 under the coalition \"Juntos Haremos Historia\", and as the mayor of Cuernavaca, Morelos.\nAs a footballer, Blanco was known for his attacking ability and played most of his career as a deep-lying forward and his last years as an attacking midfielder. Blanco is considered to be one of the greatest Mexican and North American footballers of all time.\nEarly life.\nBlanco was born in Mexico City, in the district of Tlatilco, but grew up in Tepito. Born to Faustino Blanco and Hortensia Bravo, he was named after the last Aztec emperor Cuauht\u00e9moc, in which the name means \"one who has descended like an eagle\".\nFootball career.\nBeginnings.\nBlanco started his career with Am\u00e9rica in 1992, where he won various awards, both team-based and individual, and had various loan stints with Necaxa, Spanish club Real Valladolid, and Veracruz. In 2007, he joined the Chicago Fire, with a loan stint with Santos Laguna for the 2008 Apertura championship. In 2010, he returned to Mexico to trek throughout various teams, joining Veracruz again, Irapuato, Dorados, and Puebla-based teams Lobos BUAP and Puebla, where he retired with the latter in 2015. The following year, he came out of retirement to officially end his career with Am\u00e9rica.\nClub career.\nClub Am\u00e9rica.\nHaving played most of his career in Am\u00e9rica, with 333 appearances and 135 goals, Blanco has become an idol to the club's supporters and an important figure in the history of the team.\nBlanco made his debut in the Mexican Primera Divisi\u00f3n in 1992 at the age of 19 with Am\u00e9rica. He won his first Golden Boot with 16 goals in the Winter 1998 season for \"Las \u00c1guilas\". He was loaned for Winter 1997 and Summer 1998 at Necaxa, in which he scored 13 goals in 28 appearances. Blanco was later loaned to Real Valladolid of La Liga for the 2000\u201301 season. However, he suffered a broken leg while on international duty which kept him out of the side for six months. Blanco returned to Valladolid for another loan spell the following season, but he struggled with homesickness and regaining his form. He had a knack for scoring great goals in La Liga, with most notable, a free-kick against Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernab\u00e9u Stadium.\nHe returned to Mexico and spent the 2004 Apertura season with Veracruz, where they ended up winning their group, but were defeated in the playoffs by UNAM. Blanco was a popular player during his time there.\nIn May 2005, Blanco won his first club championship as a player, leading Club Am\u00e9rica to its tenth league title, when Club Am\u00e9rica defeated U.A.G. by an aggregate score of 7\u20134 (1\u20131, 6\u20133). In the next three consecutive years between 2005 and 2007, he was awarded the MVP.\nHe scored his final goal during the championship final against Pachuca in 2007.\nChicago Fire.\nOn 2 April 2007, Blanco ventured on to Major League Soccer in the United States and signed with Chicago Fire. He was welcomed by 5,000 fans at Toyota Park as he conducted interviews with the media, signed autographs and greeted with fans.\nHe was later voted as a finalist for both the MVP and Newcomer of the Year awards in 2007. Blanco was the 2007 Goal of the Year winner, for his goal against Real Salt Lake.\nBlanco was the second-highest paid player in Major League Soccer, after LA Galaxy midfielder David Beckham, earning $2.7 million a year. Once again, he was a finalist for the MVP of the year award.\nOn 24 July 2008, in the All-Stars Game against West Ham United, Blanco won the MVP award with one assist and one goal, a game in which he only played 46 minutes. The MLS All-stars won 3\u20132.\nSantos Laguna (loan).\nOn 19 November 2008, it was announced that Santos Laguna signed Blanco on a loan to play only for the Apertura 2008 championship, after the injury of their Ecuadorian striker Christian Ben\u00edtez. Blanco was formally presented to the press the next day, wearing the number 9 jersey, and stated that he looked forward to giving Santos a back-to-back championship. On 29 November 2008, Blanco scored his first goal with Santos, a penalty in the second leg of the championship quarter-finals against San Luis.\nLater career.\nIn October 2009, Blanco announced he would not be renewing his contract with Chicago Fire and would instead sign with Veracruz of the Ascenso MX beginning in January 2010. However, after 6 months with Veracruz he left for Irapuato. Led by Blanco, Irapuato won the 2011 Clausura, but the team failed to advance to the Primera Divisi\u00f3n, losing to Tijuana in the promotional final.\nIn December 2011, Blanco joined Dorados de Sinaloa of Liga de Ascenso. During Apertura 2012, Blanco won the Copa MX with Dorados. Despite Blanco announcing he would retire after the end of 2012, he changed his mind and played for another six months with Dorados. However, after the tournament ended, he did not renew his contract and was released from the team in June 2013.\nBlanco signed for Lobos BUAP for the Apertura 2013 Liga de Ascenso season. After one year with the club, he did not renew his contract with BUAP and was released from the club at the end of the season, in which the club failed to qualify for the play-offs.\nAfter considering retirement, Blanco signed with Puebla for one last season in the Liga MX. On 21 April 2015, he played in the Clausura's Copa MX final against Guadalajara, coming off the bench. Puebla went on to win the cup, and sent Blanco off as a champion in what was supposed to be the final game of his career.\nOn 22 February 2016, a month into his political career, it was announced that Blanco would participate in an official Liga MX match during the Week 9 of Clausura 2016 for the club that started his career, Club Am\u00e9rica. It would allow him to officially end his career, while playing for the club. On 5 March, Blanco started the match wearing a number 100 jersey, and played 36 minutes for Am\u00e9rica at the Estadio Azteca in a match against Morelia, before being replaced by Darwin Quintero. During the match, Blanco demonstrated his signature move, the \"Cuauhtemi\u00f1a\", and had two shots on goal, one of which hit the crossbar from the outside of the penalty box. The match was eventually won by Am\u00e9rica 4\u20131.\nInternational career.\nBlanco represented Mexico from 1995 to 2010 (with a special appearance in 2014). He was capped 120 times and scored 38 goals. Blanco is the only Mexican to have won Confederations Cup awards, being awarded the Silver Ball and Silver Boot at the 1999 Confederations Cup after a first-place finish on home soil, until Oswaldo S\u00e1nchez's Golden Glove award in 2005. In 2010, he became the first Mexican to score at three World Cup tournaments, a feat later equalled by Rafael M\u00e1rquez and Javier Hern\u00e1ndez, appearing in the 1998, 2002, and 2010 editions of the tournament.\nBlanco made his debut with the senior national team under Bora Milutinovic in a friendly match against Uruguay on 1 February 1995. Blanco has played for Mexico at three World Cups; he was part of the squad at France 1998, Korea-Japan 2002 and South Africa 2010. He was also a member of the team that won the Confederations Cup in 1999 where he was the tournament's leading scorer with six goals, including the winning goal at the Estadio Azteca against Brazil in the final. He was awarded the \"Silver Shoe\" and \"Silver Ball\" for outstanding player of the tournament. Blanco holds the record along with Brazilian Ronaldinho as the highest scoring players in the Confederations Cup with nine goals, three in 1997 and six in 1999.\nIn the selection for the final 23-man squad for the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, then national team coach Ricardo La Volpe left Blanco out of the team. While the ostensible reason given was that Blanco was frequently injured and not in good form, some people considered this to be a consequence of the previous year's constant bickering, due to on-going personal problems between coach and player.\nBlanco became part of the squad that played the 2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup, scoring one penalty goal, and the 2007 Copa Am\u00e9rica, where he scored 2 goals also from penalty kicks. On 13 September 2008, he earned his 100th cap for his country in its 2\u20131 World Cup qualifier victory over Canada at Tuxtla Guti\u00e9rrez, coming on with only 15 seconds left in regulation time. After the match, he announced his retirement from international football.\nWith the return of Javier Aguirre as coach, Blanco returned to the national team in May 2009. He played in all the games throughout the Hexagonal of the World Cup Qualifying. Since then, Blanco has become an important factor in Mexico's team regaining form and confidence.\nOn 10 October 2009, Blanco provoked the first opposition own goal and scored the second goal in a 4\u20131 victory over El Salvador to help Mexico clinch a spot in the 2010 World Cup. On 17 June 2010, he scored a penalty in the 78th minute of the 2\u20130 win against France at the World Cup's second round of group stage matches in South Africa. With this goal he became the first Mexican to score a goal in three World Cup tournaments and the third-oldest goalscorer in World Cup history.\nBlanco played a tribute game in 2014 against Israel at the Estadio Azteca, which symbolized his official retirement from international football. Mexico went on to win the match 3\u20130.\nPlayer profile.\nStyle of play.\nBlanco is considered to be one of the greatest Mexican footballers of all time, as well as one of the best penalty takers of all time, having scored 71 out of 73 penalties in his career, giving him a 97.26% success rate from the spot.\nHis brash, aggressive, and confrontative playing style is reflected both on and off the field, pulling ingenious plays and being combative against the press, players, and coaches alike.\n\"Cuauhtemi\u00f1a\".\nBlanco is also remembered for the \"Cuauhtemi\u00f1a\", or Blanco Trick, which he performed notably at the 1998 World Cup. In the trick, when two or more opposition players are trying to take the ball from him, he traps the ball between his feet and jumps through the defenders \u2013 releasing the ball in the air and landing with it under control as he leaves the opposition players behind. The trick is easy to perform but is eye-catching and has been incorporated as a special skill into the FIFA series of football video games.\nCelebration.\nBlanco himself has accepted on Mexican television and to the press that his goal celebration is an imitation of the \"Archer\" celebration created by former Atletico de Madrid striker Kiko Narvaez. In a 2005 interview with Mexican newspaper \"El Universal\", Blanco explains that while watching a Spanish league game accompanied by his teammate Germ\u00e1n Villa, both players agreed to celebrate their next goal by imitating the \"Archer\" gesture. In the end, only Blanco did it, and jokingly reprimanded Villa for not keeping his word. However, the Chicago Fire official website claimed that Blanco celebrates scoring a goal by acting like the Prehispanic Tlatoani Aztec emperor Cuauht\u00e9moc, \"in order to show respect for the Mexican people, and their indigenous Amerindian heritage\".\nReception.\nBlanco is considered one of the most influential figures in recent Mexican footballing history. Tom Marshall of \"ESPN\" states \"the battles, brawls, \"golazos\", insults, intensity and passion with which Blanco [...] lived both on and off the pitch, he left a deep imprint on the Mexican game and a colorful story painted by the kind of character arguably lacking at present.\"\nPolitical career.\nMunicipal president of Cuernavaca (2015\u20132018).\nIn January 2015, Blanco registered as a Social Democratic Party (PSD) candidate for the municipal presidential elections of the city of Cuernavaca, the capital of the Mexican state of Morelos, and was formally nominated two months later. In the 2015 state election, he won in a closely contested election, narrowly defeating Maricela Vel\u00e1zquez of the incumbent Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). In a subsequent vote recount Blanco was confirmed the winner of the municipal presidential race.\nAs municipal president, Blanco struggled with accusations about his residency in the city, allegations that he had accepted a bribe to run for office, and even murder. None of these allegations ever went anywhere. In June 2016, he left the Social Democratic Party and dismissed the secretary of the city council, Roberto Y\u00e1\u00f1ez Moreno, which marked the beginning of a dispute between Blanco and the party.\nIn March 2017, he joined the Social Encounter Party (PES).\nGovernor of Morelos (2018\u20132024).\nFor the 2018 general elections, the National Regeneration Movement proposed having Senator Rabindranath Salazar Solorio as the \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" coalition candidate for governor of Morelos but the PES, also part of the coalition, argued Blanco was the better choice. In December 2015, it was determined there would be an internal election to see who would become the candidate for the coalition.\nOn 28 January 2018, \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" presidential candidate Andr\u00e9s Manuel L\u00f3pez Obrador announced Blanco would be the coalition's candidate after winning the nominee process against Senator Rabindranath Salazar Solorio. On 11 March 2018 he formally registered to become the candidate for governor of Morelos and, on 2 April 2018, he resigned as municipal president of Cuernavaca in order to formally participate in the gubernatorial elections; he was succeeded as mayor by Denisse Arizmendi Villegas. Polls indicated he was in the lead.\nOn 1 July 2018, he won the 2018 gubernatorial elections by a landslide, becoming the first former footballer to win a gubernatorial election in Mexico. He began his term as Governor on 1 October 2018. His greatest challenges as governor were finding adequate funding for the state university (UAEM) and resolving the high incidence of crime in the state. Only three months into his term, he was already faced with marches denouncing his administration. On 13 February 2019 Blanco formally charged his predecessor, Graco Ram\u00edrez, with organized crime, operations with resources of illicit origin, and tax fraud.\nOne year into his governorship, people began to doubt Blanco's administration. Politically, he disputed with Morena and PT, partners in \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" that got him elected. He promoted the PES, which had been dissolved on a national level but remained strong locally. Crime rose significantly, with a 680% increase in cases of extortion, 375% increase in kidnappings, and 41% increase in murders. More than eighty women were killed in 2019, with 22 of the cases classified distinctly as femicide. Additionally, a tax debt of MXN$302,230 (US$15,800) from his time as a footballer was pardoned by the federal Tax Administration Service, raising questions of corruption. Roberto Soto Pastor, a former collaborator of Graco Ram\u00edrez, sued Blanco for hiring several members of his family and friends, including his half-brother Ulises Bravo, sister-in-law Liu Le\u00f3n Luna, uncles Carlos Ju\u00e1rez L\u00f3pez, Jaime Ju\u00e1rez L\u00f3pez, and Armando Shajid Bravo L\u00f3pez, and a close friend named Baltazar Jonathan Alegr\u00eda Mej\u00eda. All received salaries ranging from MXN $45,000 to $60,000 (US$2,300 to $3,100) per month. The suit said their hiring was a violation of article 276 of the Morelos Penal Code, which prohibits nepotism. President Andr\u00e9s Manuel L\u00f3pez Obrador personally called Blanco out for nepotism in a meeting on 11 October. The governor denied allegations of nepotism.\nOn 8 January 2020, Arias Consultores released a poll that ranked the country's governors from best to worst. Sinaloa governor Quirino Ordaz Coppel was chosen the best, while Puebla governor Miguel Barbosa Huerta was declared the worst. Cuauht\u00e9moc Blanco was second-to-last at No. 31.\nFederal deputy (2024\u2013present).\nIn the 2024 general election, Blanco was elected to the Chamber of Deputies \nas a plurinominal deputy for the National Regeneration Movement (Morena).\nPersonal life.\nHe was previously married to Marisela Santoyo from 1996 to 2003, with whom he has a son, Cuauht\u00e9moc Jr., born the same year of their wedding. After their separation in 2000, Blanco had an affair with Liliana Lago, which produced a daughter, B\u00e1rbara, born in 2002. In 2015, Blanco married Natalia Rezende. The couple have a son named Roberto, born in 2016.\nHe appeared on the North American front cover of the \"FIFA 10\" video game along with Frank Lampard and Sacha Kljestan.\nIn October 2024, Blanco was accused of attempting to rape his half-sister.\nHonours.\nAm\u00e9rica\nNecaxa\nIrapuato\nDorados\nPuebla\nMexico\nIndividual\nRecords"}
{"id": "761866", "revid": "4967956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761866", "title": "U Nu", "text": "Nu (; ; 25 May 1907 \u2013 14 February 1995), commonly known as U Nu and also by the honorific name Thakin Nu, was a prominent Burmese statesman and the first Prime Minister of Union of Burma. He was educated at Rangoon University, where he developed his political ideas and became actively involved in the student movement. Nu's involvement in the nationalist movement deepened during his university years, and he quickly emerged as a leading figure advocating for Burma's independence from British colonial rule.\nHe played a crucial role in the Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League (AFPFL), the primary political organization leading the fight for independence. Following Burma's independence in 1948, Nu became the country's first Prime Minister under the provisions of the 1947 Constitution of the Union of Burma. His tenure was marked by efforts to rebuild the war-torn nation, establish democratic governance, and navigate the complexities of ethnic and political divisions within Burma. Nu's administration faced numerous challenges, including economic difficulties, internal insurgencies, and the task of unifying a diverse population.\nDuring his time in office, Nu implemented several significant reforms, including land redistribution policies and initiatives to promote education and healthcare. He also pursued a policy of neutrality in foreign affairs, aligning Burma with neither the Western bloc nor the Soviet Union during the Cold War. However, his government struggled with internal dissent and regional insurgencies, leading to political instability.\nNu's first term as Prime Minister ended in 1958, but he briefly returned to power in 1960. However, his second tenure was cut short by a military coup in 1962, led by General Ne Win. Following the coup, Nu was placed under house arrest and later allowed to go into exile. He continued to be an influential political figure and an advocate for democracy until his death on 14 February 1995. Nu's legacy is remembered for his dedication to Burma's independence, his efforts to establish democratic governance, and his complex role in the nation's turbulent political history.\nBiography.\nNu was born to U San Tun and Daw Saw Khin of Wakema, Myaungmya District, British Burma. He attended Myoma High School in Yangon, and received a B.A. from Rangoon University in 1929. In 1935 he married Mya Yi while studying for a Bachelor of Laws.\nPolitical career.\nStruggle for independence.\nNu's political life started as president of the Rangoon University Students Union (RUSU) with M. A. Rashid as vice-president and U Thi Han as the general secretary. Aung San was editor and publicity officer. Nu and Aung San were both expelled from the university after an article, \"Hell Hound at Large\", appeared in the union magazine, which was obviously about the rector. Their expulsion sparked off the second university students' strike in February 1936. Aung San and Nu became members of the nationalist Dobama Asiayone (Our Burma Association) which had been formed in 1930 and henceforth gained the prefix Thakin ('Master'), proclaiming they were the true masters of their own land. For a few years after independence in 1948 Nu retained the prefix 'Thakin', but around 1952 he announced that since Burma was already independent the prefix of 'Thakin' was no longer needed and henceforth he would be known as U ('Mr') Nu. In 1937 he co-founded with Thakin Than Tun the Nagani (Red Dragon) Book Club which for the first time widely circulated Burmese-language translations of the Marxist classics. He also became a leader and co-founder of the People's Revolutionary Party (PRP), which later became the Socialist Party, and the umbrella organisation the Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League (AFPFL), which advocated Burmese independence from both Japanese and British control during the 1940s. He was detained by the colonial government in 1940 along with Thakin Soe, Thakin Than Tun, Kyaw Nyein, U M\u0103d, and Ba Maw. The prison holding Nu was largely abandoned by the British in the course of the rapid Japanese advance.\nFrom August 1943, when the Japanese declared nominal independence for Burma under a regime led by Ba Maw, Nu was appointed foreign minister. In 1944 he was appointed minister of information until the open rebellion by the AFPFL against the Japanese military in March 1945. Though aware of the resistance and in contact with its leaders, Nu did not actively participate in the underground activities of the AFPFL up to the rebellion, and unlike its leading figure Aung San, did not join the rebellion and move to areas under Allied control. Instead, Nu retreated with the Japanese and Ba Maw in late April, 1945. Nu was nearly killed on August 12, 1945, when Allied pilots strafed and destroyed the house Ba Maw had been given by the retreating Japanese, but both escaped the residence during the attack. Following Japanese surrender, Nu retired from politics for a time, writing his memoirs of the war years, \"Burma Under the Japanese\" and tracts on Marxism. As a popular figure with early connections to Aung San and other nationalists from their student days, however, Nu was drawn back into the politics of the AFPFL where he initially struggled to keep its Communist contingent within the party.\nAfter the assassination of its political and military leader Aung San along with his cabinet ministers on 19 July 1947, U Nu led the AFPFL and signed an independence agreement (the Nu-Attlee Treaty) with the British Premier Clement Attlee in October 1947.\nParliamentary era.\nBurma gained independence from Britain on 4 January 1948. U Nu became the chairman of the Old Myoma Students Association in Yangon. He became the first Prime Minister of independent Burma, and he had to deal with armed rebellion. The rebels included various ethnic groups, White Flag and Red Flag communist factions, and some regiments in the Army. Yet another challenge was the exiled Kuomintang (KMT). After being chased out of (Mainland) China by the victorious Communists, they had established bases in eastern Burma, and it took several years in the early 1950s to drive them out. A democratic system was instituted and parliamentary elections were held several times. Throughout the 1950s, U Nu oversaw the implementation of the Pyidawtha Plan, a national economic development plan to establish an industrial welfare state in Burma.\nHe voluntarily relinquished the Prime Ministerial position in 1956. He was one of the leaders of the Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League (AFPFL) from 1942 to 1963. AFPFL member Ba Swe served as prime minister from June 1956 to June 1957. In 1955, the University of Belgrade (Yugoslavia) awarded him an honorary doctorate.\nOn 26 September 1958, he asked the Army Chief of Staff General Ne Win to take over as a \"caretaker government\", and Ne Win was sworn in as prime minister on 27 October 1958. In the February 1960 general election, U Nu's Clean faction of the AFPFL won in a landslide victory over the Stable faction led by U Ba Swe and Kyaw Nyein. U Nu returned to power forming the Pyidaungzu (Union) government on 4 April 1960. The Clean AFPFL was subsequently renamed the Union Party.\nU Thant had been Secretary to the Prime Minister U Nu before he was appointed Burmese Ambassador to the United Nations in 1957. U Thant became the third UN Secretary-General in 1961. U Nu participated in the 1st Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement in 1961 in Belgrade making Burma one of the founding members of the Non-Aligned Movement.\nIn 1961, U Nu briefly made Buddhism the state religion and caused dissent amongst Christian Kachin nationalists and was one of the main factors for the Kachin conflict.\nMilitary era.\nLess than two years after his election victory, U Nu was overthrown by a coup d'\u00e9tat led by General Ne Win on 2 March 1962. After the 1962 coup, U Nu was put in what was euphemistically called 'protective custody' in an army camp outside Rangoon. He was released more than four years later on 27 October 1966. Among others, on the day of the military coup on 2 March 1962 President Mahn Win Maung as well as Chief Justice U Myint Thein (22 February 1900 \u2013 3 October 1994) was also put in 'protective custody'. Win Maung was released from detention in October 1967 and Myint Thein not until 28 February 1968.\nOn 2 December 1968, Ne Win appointed U Nu to the 33-man Internal Unity Advisory Board to advise on suggestions for internal unity and political change. In February 1969, U Nu submitted a report recommending that power be handed back to him and that the Parliament abolished by Ne Win in March 1962 be reconvened to appoint Ne Win as president to remove the 'taint' of Ne Win's government being 'usurpers'. Soon after submitting his report, U Nu, feigning illness, and under the pretext of a pilgrimage to India left Burma for India. When Ne Win made no response to his report, U Nu left India for London.\nIn a London press conference on 27 August 1969, U Nu announced that he was the 'legal Prime Minister' and pledged that he would not give up his struggle for democracy in Burma and that Burma was under the 'same kind of fascism' that General Aung San had fought. In November 1969, Ne Win formally rejected U Nu's proposal, saying that he took over power \u2013 and held on to it \u2013 not because he craved power but to uplift the welfare of the 'workers and peasants' and that U Nu's proposals amounted to 'turning back the wheel'.\nU Nu then used former Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) official Bill Young to help him raise international funding for founding the United National Liberation Front (UNLF). By the end of 1970, they had garnered more than $2 million.\nU Nu later formed the Parliamentary Democracy Party (PDP) and led an armed resistance group. U Nu's 'resistance group' consisted of no more than several hundred or at most a few thousand at its peak and his avowal to fight and overthrow Ne Win from the Thai border met with abject failure. He subsequently accepted an offer of amnesty granted by Ne Win and returned to Burma on 29 July 1980.\n8888 Uprising.\nAfter keeping a low profile, teaching Buddhism in Burma and the United States \u2013 U Nu visited Northern Illinois University in the US to lecture on Buddhism in 1987 \u2013 U Nu became once again politically active during the 8888 Uprising forming the first new political party, the League for Democracy and Peace (LDP). Echoing his assertion that he was the 'legal Prime Minister' of August 1969 in London, U Nu reiterated on 9 September 1988 in Rangoon that he was still the 'legal Prime Minister'.\nU Nu initiated to form an interim government and invited opposition leaders to join him. Indian Prime minister Rajiv Gandhi had already signaled his readiness to recognize the interim government and Burmese troops started to change sides with Burmese Navy almost totally siding with the opposition. However, Aung San Suu Kyi categorically rejected U Nu's plan by saying \"the future of the opposition would be decided by masses of the people\". Ex-Brigadier Aung Gyi, another opposition politician at the time of the 8888 crisis, followed and rejected the plan after Suu Kyi's refusal. Crucial months were passed on the street and the interim government was not internationally recognized due to lack of support from opposition. Political analyst Susanne Prager-Nyein described Aung San Suu Kyi's refusal as \"a major strategic mistake\".\nNonetheless U Nu formed his own 'government' reappointing Mahn Win Maung who was overthrown in the 1962 coup as 'President'. After the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC) took over power on 18 September 1988, the SLORC repeatedly asked U Nu to formally 'abolish' his 'interim government', but U Nu refused to do so. As a result, Nu was put under house arrest on 29 December 1989. SLORC spokesmen at that time stated that although U Nu could have been tried for 'treason', due to his advanced age and his contribution to the freedom struggle, he was not charged with that offence. He was released on 23 April 1992 the same day the SLORC Chairman Senior General Saw Maung was forced to relinquish power and replaced by military junta (officially named the State Peace and Development Council) chief Senior General Than Shwe.\nReligious works.\nA devout Theravada Buddhist, U Nu had long been popular with the Buddhist majority of the country. In 1950, with the Karen Uprising, the Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League controlled Parliament launched a Peace Within One Year campaign, involving various military actions and governmental reforms. Amongst this backdrop, U Nu combined orders for military equipment from India with a request to receive Buddhist relics on loan. U Nu toured the relics around the country, reaching into the stable parts of the countryside were ethnic unrest was still present, hoping to inspire peace through the power of the Buddha.\nHe had the Kaba Aye Pagoda and the Maha Pasana Guha (Great Cave) built in 1952 in preparation for the Sixth Buddhist Synod that he convened and hosted in 1954\u20131956 as prime minister. In a 1957 interview with American news broadcast \"See It Now\", he stated that:\nHe also stated that although he was born Buddhist, he was particularly attracted by the Kalama Sutta, a Buddhist doctrine that challenges believers to actively question their beliefs and views instead of passively accepting them:\nOn 29 August 1961, Parliament passed the State Religion Promotion Act of 1961, initiated by U Nu himself. This act made Buddhism the official state religion of the country, one of his election campaign promises as well as instated the Buddhist lunar calendar by official observance of the so-called Buddhist sabbath days, or Uposatha, in lieu of the Christian Sabbath day, Sunday. On Uposatha days, state broadcasting radio was required to dedicate its airtime to religious programs, while state schools and government offices were closed, and liquor was not allowed to be served in public spaces. The act also required government schools to teach Buddhist students the Buddhist scriptures, banned the slaughtering of cattle (beef became known as \"todo tha\" (); lit. hush hush meat), and commuted death sentences for parolees.\nBeyond stately actions, U Nu also took to fulfil the Buddhist ideal of the Chakravartin by engaging in personal merit-making and increasingly strong vows of celibacy to atone for the sins of the nation and to bring stability to his rule through religious devotion.\nWhen General Ne Win took over in 1962, one of his first acts was to repeal the Buddhist acts that had passed under U Nu's administration, including the ban on cow slaughtering and declaration of Buddhism as the state religion, as they had alienated largely Christian ethnic minorities such as the Kachins and the Karens, and perhaps was symbolic of a personality clash between Nu and Ne Win.\nLiterary works.\nU Nu authored several books some of which have been translated into English. Among his works are \"The People Win Through\" (1951), \"Burma under the Japanese\" (1954), \"An Asian Speaks\" (1955), and \"Burma Looks Ahead\" (1951). His autobiography (1907\u20131962) \"Ta-Tei Sanei Tha\" (\"Naughty Saturday-born\") was published in India by Irrawaddy Publishing (U Maw Thiri) in 1975. An earlier version had been published in 1974; it was translated into English by U Law Yone, Editor of the (Rangoon) \"Nation\" till 1963 and who, like U Nu, was jailed by the Revolutionary Council in the 1960s. Before U Nu became prime minister, he had translated, in the late 1930s, Dale Carnegie's book, \"How to Win Friends and Influence People\" (\"Lupaw Luzaw Louknee\" in Burmese \u2013 in retranslation, it roughly meant 'How to Take Advantage of Man by Man'); later the translated name was changed to the more palatable 'Meikta Bala Htika' which can be retranslated as \"A Treatise on Friendly Social Contract\". The translated work under the second title became a prescribed text in schools in the 1950s as was U Nu's original work in Burmese, \"The People Win Through\" or \"The Sound of the People Victorious\" (\"Ludu Aungthan\").\nHe organized a Burma Translation Society and first volume of Burmese Encyclopedia published in 1954. The Sarpay Beikhman continued those works.\nNovelist and playwright.\nBesides serving as prime minister, U Nu was also an accomplished novelist and playwright. In a work from the colonial period titled \"Yesset pabeikwe\" or \"It's So Cruel\" (\"Man, the Wolf of Man\") U Nu describes how during the colonial period rich landlords were able to get away with just about any crime they wished to perpetrate.\nThe play \"The Sound of the People Victorious\" (\"Ludu Aungthan\") that U Nu wrote while he was prime minister is about the havoc that Communist ideologies can wreak in a family. Strangely enough the first production of the play seems to have been in Pasadena, California. It later became a popular comic book in Burma, was translated into English, and made into a feature film at the height of the Cold War in the 1950s. The older generation in Burma can still remember having studied the play in their schooldays.\nIn the play \"Thaka Ala\", published just before the 1962 coup, U Nu paints an extremely ugly picture of corruption both amongst the high-ranking politicians in power at the time as well as among the communist leaders who were gaining ascendancy. This is a play in the vernacular, a genre that hardly exists in Burmese literature. A translation into English was published in instalments in the \"Guardian\" newspaper. The play was critical of the current state of politics in Burma at the time (around 1960) and in this critical stance it resembles Thein Pe Myint's \"The Modern Monk\" (\"Tet Hpongyi\" in Burmese). Like \"The Modern Monk\", it deals with scandalous sexual liaisons not much in keeping with traditional modes of Burmese behaviour.One of the greatest female writers of the Post-colonial period is Journalgyaw Ma Ma Lay. Khin Myo Chit was another important writer, who wrote, among her works, The 13-Carat Diamond (1955), which was translated into many languages. The journalist Ludu U Hla was the author of numerous volumes of ethnic minority folklore, novels about inmates in U Nu-era jails, and biographies of people working in different occupations. The Prime Minister U Nu himself wrote several politically oriented plays and novels.\nDeath.\nNu died of natural causes on 14 February 1995 at his home in Yangon's Bahan Township at the age of 87, after his wife Mya Yi (1910\u20131993) died. They had five children, San San (daughter), Thaung Htaik (son), Maung Aung (son), Than Than (daughter) and Cho Cho (daughter)."}
{"id": "761868", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761868", "title": "Thakin Nu", "text": ""}
{"id": "761870", "revid": "14984434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761870", "title": "Kurt Christoph Graf von Schwerin", "text": "Kurt Christoph Graf von Schwerin (26 October 1684 \u2013 6 May 1757) was a Prussian \"Generalfeldmarschall\", one of the leading commanders under Frederick the Great.\nBiography.\nHe was born in L\u00f6witz, Swedish Pomerania, and at an early age entered the Dutch army, with which he served at Schellenberg and at Blenheim.\nIn 1707 he became a lieutenant-colonel in the army of the duke of Mecklenburg-Schwerin, and was present at Ramillies and Malplaquet, and with the Swedish commander Stenbock at Gadebusch. In 1713 he was with Charles XII of Sweden in his captivity at Bender, and in 1718 was made major-general.\nIn 1719 he opposed the Hanoverian Army which invaded Mecklenburg (in the course of which he fought a brilliant action at \"Walsm\u00fchlen\" on 6 March 1719), and in the following year entered the service of the king of Prussia. At first he was employed in diplomatic missions, but in January 1722 \u2013 1723 he received the command of an infantry regiment. In 1730, as a major-general, he was a member of the court martial which tried the crown prince Frederick for desertion, and in 1733, at the head of a Prussian army, conducted with great skill the delicate and difficult task of settling the Mecklenburg question.\nIn the following year he became lieutenant-general and in 1739 general of infantry. During the life-time of King Frederick William, Schwerin was also employed in much administrative work. Frederick the Great, on his accession, promoted Schwerin to the rank of general field marshal and made him a count. Early in the First Silesian War, he justified his sovereign's choice by his brilliant leadership at the Battle of Mollwitz (10 April 1741), which, when he had persuaded the king to leave the battlefield explaining that he may be captured as a defeat was likely, converted a doubtful battle into a victory which decided for the time being the fate of Silesia.\nAfter the conclusion of the war he was governor of the important fortresses of Brieg and Neisse. In the Second Silesian War (1744\u20131745), Schwerin commanded the army which, marching from Glatz, met the king's army under the walls of Prague, and in the siege and capture of that place he played a distinguished part (10 September 1744).\nSome time afterwards, the king being compelled to retreat from Bohemia, Schwerin again distinguished himself, but, resenting a real or fancied slight, retired to his estate, to which, and its inhabitants, he devoted his energies during the years of peace.\nHe reappeared on the field at the outbreak of the Third Silesian War (1756), and during the first campaign conducted the war on the Silesian side of Bohemia; and in 1757, following the same route as in 1744, again joined Frederick at Prague. On 6 May followed the Battle of Prague; leading on a regiment of the left wing to the attack with its colours in his hand, he shouted \"Let all brave Prussians follow me!\" after which he was struck and killed by a cannonball. Thomas Carlyle gives his cry as, \"Heran, meine Kinder\" (\"This way, boys!\").\nCommemorations.\nFrederick erected a statue on the \"Wilhelmplatz\" (today part of Wilhelmstra\u00dfe) to his foremost soldier, and a monument on the field of Prague commemorates the place where he fell. Since 1889 the \"14th (3rd Pomeranians) Infantry\" of the German army had borne his name."}
{"id": "761871", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761871", "title": "Sylvestre Ntibantunganya", "text": "Sylvestre Ntibantunganya (born 8 May 1956) is a Burundian politician. He was President of the National Assembly of Burundi from 23 December 1993 to 30 September 1994, and President of Burundi from 6 April 1994 to 25 July 1996 (interim to October 1994).\nA Hutu, Ntibantunganya became involved in politics in the 1970s, eventually joining the Marxism-influenced Burundi Workers' Party (UBU) before leaving it to cofound the Front for Democracy in Burundi (FRODEBU) in 1986. After working as a journalist for Burundi National Radio and Television during the 1980s, Ntibantunganya was elected to Burundi's National Assembly following FRODEBU's victory in the country's multiparty elections in June 1993 over the Union for National Progress (UPRONA), the Tutsi dominated-party that had ruled Burundi as a one-party state since 1966. He was named Minister of Foreign Affairs the following month under Burundi's new president, party-mate Melchior Ndadaye.\nNdadaye's assassination during a coup attempt in October after three months in power provoked the Burundian Civil War between Tutsis and Hutus. During this time, he was named President of the National Assembly two months later. The assassination of Ndadaye's successor Cyprien Ntaryamira in April 1994 made Ntibantunganya the interim president in the midst of the civil war, becoming the permanent President in October of that year.\nDuring the war, he was overthrown during a coup in 1996, and was replaced by former UPRONA president Pierre Buyoya. Following the end of the war in 2005, Ntibantunganya became a senator for life under the civil war's peace accords until 2018. He also ran as an unsuccessful candidate in the 2015 Burundian presidential election.\nEarly life.\nSylvestre Ntibantunganya was born on 8 May 1956 in the Commune of Gishubi, Gitega Province. He is an ethnic Hutu. As a child he intended on becoming a priest, and thus after finishing primary school he attended Mugera seminary. He left after his first semester and then attended university. He graduated in 1984 with a bachelor's degree in history and geography and sought out a teaching position but could not obtain one. From April 1984 to December 1987 he worked as a journalist for Burundi National Radio and Television.\nPolitical career.\nEarly activities and FRODEBU.\nIn the 1970s Ntibantunganya was a member of the Movement of Progressive Barundi Students (Mouvement des Etudiants Progressistes Barundi). In August 1979 some of the student movement members founded the Burundi Workers' Party (\"Umugambwe wa'Bakozi Uburundi\", UBU), a revolutionary socialist political party. To join the party, an applicant had to be sponsored by a member and was accepted on a probationary basis while they were educated in Marxism. Ntibantunganya was sponsored by one of the founding members and after three months became a full member of the party. By 1981 he sat on its central committee as its national secretary for external relations. UBU developed two factions, with the first advocating armed revolution and the second\u2014led by Ntibantunganya and Melchior Ndadaye\u2014advocating democracy and political freedom. As a result of these ideological divisions, the two men left UBU in 1983.\nIn 1988, President Pierre Buyoya decreed the creation of a 24-person commission to study ethnic divisions in Burundi and create a plan for national unity. Ntibantunganya served on the panel, which produced a Charter of National Unity, but it was denounced by Hutu members of the political opposition for being dominated by Tutsis and presenting an elitist point of view of the country. Ntibantunganya later called the project a failure. In May 1991 he founded \"Tujujurane\", a Kirundi newspaper. He cofounded the Front pour la D\u00e9mocratie au Burundi (FRODEBU) in 1986 and for a time edited its official newspaper, \"L'Aube de la D\u00e9mocratie\" (), and in 1993 served on the party's central committee.\nMinister of Foreign Affairs and President of the National Assembly.\nIn Burundi's legislative elections held on 29 June 1993, Ntibantunganya was elected to a seat in the National Assembly representing Gitega. He became Minister of Foreign Affairs in Prime Minister Sylvie Kinigi's government on 10 July.\nEarly in the morning on 21 October 1993 Tutsi soldiers in the Burundian Army launched a coup and attacked the presidential palace. The president's wife called Ntibantunganya called to warn him about the putsch. Thus informed, he began calling FRODEBU leaders in an attempt to rally the government and warned Minister of Communications Jean\u2010Marie Ngendahayo. He also called the charg\u00e9 d'affaires at the United States embassy and extracted his assurances that the United States government would condemn the coup. He then resolved to flee. Distrustful of his military guard, Ntibantunganya changed into his gardener's clothes and walked to a friend's home, where he remained in hiding for the next two days. His wife, Eus\u00e9bie Nshimirimana, was murdered by soldiers while attempting to hide at a different home, though their infant child survived. He subsequently found refuge at the French embassy with Kinigi and other government officials. President Ndadaye was ultimately killed in the coup, as were the other officials in the presidential line of succession. Ntibantunganya later recalled the night of the coup as his saddest memory. Ndadaye's death left him the interim leader of FRODEBU. He resigned as Minister of Foreign Affairs on 22 December 1993. The following day he was elected President of the National Assembly. \nFRODEBU also set about trying to name a new president. This stoked a rivalry between Ntibantunganya and another FRODEBU cofounder, L\u00e9onard Nyangoma. By his own account, Ntibantunganya decided to withdraw himself as a candidate despite having the support of the central committee, citing his desire to focus on party matters, and Ngendahayo suggested that FRODEBU back Cyprien Ntaryamira for the position instead. FRODEBU reached an agreement with the opposition, whereby Ntaryamira was sworn-in as President of Burundi on 5 February 1994 with a new government.\nPresident of Burundi.\nOn 6 April 1994 President Ntaryamira was traveling on a Rwandan plane with Rwandan President Juv\u00e9nal Habyarimana. The aircraft was shot down by unknown assailants over Kigali, killing all aboard. The shootdown triggered the Rwandan genocide. Following the crash, Ntibantunganya made a broadcast on Burundi television, flanked by the minister of defence and the army chief of staff, appealing for calm. He attributed Ntaryamira's death to \"the facts of circumstance\" and believed that he was not the target of the assassination. In accordance with the constitution Ntibantunganya, as President of the National Assembly, became the interim President of Burundi. Prime Minister Anatole Kanyenkiko and his government officially resigned but stayed in power pending the confirmation of a new executive. Ntibantunganya and Kanyenkiko enjoyed a good working relationship.\nFaced with the spillover of the Rwandan Civil War, Ntibantunganya's government pursued a strict policy of neutrality, denying officials of the former Habyarimana regime residency in Bujumbura and refusing to allow French troops to use Burundi as a staging area for Op\u00e9ration Turquoise. In May Ntibantunganya met with RPF leader Pasteur Bizimungu. The genocide created a refugee crisis; an estimated 300,000 Rwandans ultimately fled to Burundi, while approximately 180,000 Burundian exiles who had fled to Rwanda in October 1993 also returned. With international assistance, Ntibantunganya's government opened new refugee camps to house them.\nOver the course of 1994 the political and security situation in Burundi continued to deteriorate. Moderates in both UPRONA and FRODEBU were marginalised as radicals gained increasing influence and ethnic violence permeated the countryside. By the middle of the year Ntibantunganya was the only original member of the FRODEBU central committee still actively engaged with the party and the civil political process, with the others having been killed or having fled into exile. The party fractured into at least three groups, with the smallest section supporting Ntibantunganya, though many felt his cooperation with and concessions to the army and the opposition amounted to a capitulation. Another faction became a rebel group, the Conseil National Pour la D\u00e9fense de la D\u00e9mocratie \u2013 Forces pour la D\u00e9fense de la D\u00e9mocratie (CNDD\u2013FDD). His tenure as President of the National Assembly ended on 30 September 1994. In early February 1995 Ntibantunganya dismissed two UPRONA ministers after they failed to show up to a cabinet meeting. Later that month, UPRONA extremists\u2014displeased with the coalition government\u2014forced out Prime Minister Kanyenkiko and replaced him with Antoine Nduwayo. Nduwayo actively undermined the president's policies. In 1995 Ntibantunganya married his second wife, Pascasie Minani.\nIn the summer of 1995 the Burundian Army purchased heavy weapons from China. Fearful of the implications of their arrival, Ntibantunganya quietly persuaded the Tanzanian government to delay the shipment on its soil. Under pressure from UN and domestically, Ntibantunganya was forced to let the arms be delivered. At the behest of Tutsi extremists he also convinced the National Assembly to grant the army and gendarmerie emergency powers to restrict freedom of movement and speech.\nWith the civil war worsening and ethnic violence increasing, on 25 June 1996 Ntibantunganya participated in regional security talks in Mwanza, Tanzania. As a consequence of the meeting, the president and Nduwayo both agreed to appeal for \"international military assistance\". The Burundian Army feared this would mean its usurpation by foreign intervention, and UPRONA immediately denounced the proposal. Nduwayo then accused Ntibantunganya of subverting the military, and joined the thousands of others in the capital in marching against an intervention. On 20 July 300 Tutsis at a displaced persons camp were massacred, presumably by Hutu rebels. When Ntibantunganya attempted to attend a funeral for them three days later the crowd of mourners attacked him with stones, forcing him to evacuate via helicopter. Ntibantunganya then obtained intelligence which suggested his life was threatened. He refused to resign but asked for refuge at the United States Ambassador's residence, which was granted. On 25 July he went to the residence, while Nduwayo announced his government's resignation. Major Pierre Buyoya subsequently took power in a military coup. He announced the suspension of the constitution, the dissolution of the National Assembly, and the banning of political parties, but declared that he would guarantee Ntibantunganya's safety. Ntibantunganya later entered negotiations with Buyoya, who agreed to provide him with a home in the Bujumbura suburb of Kiriri. He left the United States Embassy on 8 June 1997, saying, \"I reaffirm that I shall not yield on the principle for a search for a negotiated solution for all problems that face our country.\"\nLater life.\nNtibantunganya served as a senator for life as a former head of state from the implementation of the Arusha Accords until August 2018. On 14 June 2007 his membership in FRODEBU was suspended. He was a candidate in the 2015 Burundian presidential election. In July he and several other opposition candidates dropped out of the race, citing concerns for their safety and fear that incumbent President Pierre Nkurunziza would rig the outcome in his favor. The following year he spent several months in exile in Belgium. In 2020 he led the East African Community's election monitoring team for Tanzania's general elections.\nIn 1999 Ntibantunganya released his first book, \"D\u00e9mocratie (une) pour tous les Burundais\", published by L'Harmattan. He spent 14 years writing another book, \"Burundi, D\u00e9mocratie pi\u00e9g\u00e9e\", which he published in 2019. During the celebration of International book day on 23 April 2021 he lamented that Burundians \"do not read\" and called for the national promotion of literature."}
{"id": "761873", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761873", "title": "Andy Douglas (judge)", "text": "Andrew Grant Douglas (July 5, 1932 \u2013 September 23, 2021) was an American Republican justice of the Ohio Supreme Court who served in that office from 1985 to 2002.\nEarly life.\nDouglas was born in July 1932 in Toledo, Ohio to Andrew and Elizabeth Douglas. Between 1954 and 1956, he served in the U.S. Army Infantry and Signal Corps and obtained the rank of first lieutenant. He attended the University of Toledo, where in 1959 he earned a degree in law.\nLegal career.\nIn 1960, Douglas co-founded the law firm Winchester &amp; Douglas. He practiced law in Toledo and Lucas County for 20 years. He also served as special counsel to the Attorney General of Ohio. The following year, he was one of the youngest members elected to Toledo City Council. He was re-elected nine times, and served until 1980.\nIn 1980, Douglas was elected to the 6th District Court of Appeals. By appointment of the chief justice of the Supreme Court of Ohio, he sat as a trial judge for the common pleas courts in various counties during 1982 and 1983. From 1980 to 1984, he was an instructor at the University of Toledo Community and Technical College. In 1984, Douglas defeated the Cuyahoga Court of Common Pleas Judge John Corrigan for Justice of the Supreme Court. He was re-elected in 1990 and 1996. During that time, he also taught at Ohio Dominican College from 1992 to 1995.\nDuring the 1990s, Justice Douglas and Justices Alice Robie Resnick, Francis E. Sweeney and Paul E. Pfeifer forged a majority. Their decisions expanded workers\u2019 compensation rights, increased liabilities for insurance companies and declared the Ohio system of funding public schools unconstitutional.\nIn an interview with The Plain Dealer in December 2002, Douglas said his most meaningful case during his Supreme Court career was in 1987 with Dayton Power &amp; Light Company v. Ohio Civil Rights Commission. A group of Dayton Power &amp; Light employees were engaged in \u201chorseplay\u201d on Sept. 12, 1982 and damaged company property. Of the employees involved, Samuel Prather was the only African-American and the only employee fired on Sept. 13, 1982. The Supreme Court ruled that the power company unlawfully discharged Prather. Douglas remarked, \u201cEvery case that comes here is important, but if I had to choose an example of moral persuasion of the court and the ability to do the right thing, that's it.\u201d\nDouglas explained his judicial philosophy in a 1997 commencement address to Cleveland State University Cleveland-Marshall College of Law students:\n\u201cBut a simple rule can help you meet and exceed those expectations. As you traverse the rocky terrain of the modern practice of law, always keep this principle in mind... Endeavor to give your clients advice which will advance their interests while also furthering the interests of justice. I can think of no greater comfort than laying down your head on your pillow each night knowing, on that day you helped somebody. We, in our profession, can do that each and every day.\u201d\nDouglas could not run for a fourth term, as he reached the mandatory retirement age of 70 in 2002. He retired on December 31, 2002 and joined the Columbus law firm of Crabbe, Brown &amp; James as a partner. He also served as executive director of the Ohio Civil Service Employees Association (OCSEA). Most recently, Douglas served of counsel with the Columbus law firm of Mazanec, Raskin &amp; Ryder Co., LPA.\nDouglas married Joan Bowman, who died at the age of 33 in 1966. They have four children: Cindy, Robert, Andy, and David. Douglas died on September 23, 2021, at the age of 89."}
{"id": "761876", "revid": "50539097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761876", "title": "John Humphrey Noyes", "text": "John Humphrey Noyes (September 3, 1811 \u2013 April 13, 1886) was an American preacher, radical religious philosopher, and utopian socialist. He founded utopian communities at Putney, Vermont, Oneida, New York, and Wallingford, Connecticut, and is credited with coining the term \"complex marriage\".\nBiography.\nEarly years.\nNoyes was born September 3, 1811, in Brattleboro, Vermont, to John Noyes, who worked variously as a minister, teacher, businessman, and member of the U.S. House of Representatives; and Polly Noyes (n\u00e9e Hayes), aunt to Rutherford B. Hayes, 19th president of the United States.\nIn 1831, when he was 20, Noyes was influenced by the preaching of Charles Grandison Finney, a leader in the Second Great Awakening. Noyes underwent a religious conversion. \"My heart was fixed on the millennium, and I resolved to live or die for it,\" Noyes later recalled. He graduated from Dartmouth College shortly thereafter and dropped plans to study law, instead enrolling at Andover Theological Seminary with a view to entering the Christian ministry.\nIn the fall of 1832, Noyes left Andover to enter the Yale Theological Seminary so that he could devote more time to Bible study. In addition to attending daily lectures and practicing his preaching technique, Noyes began to dip his toe into political activism, helping to organize in New Haven one of the first Anti-Slavery Societies in the United States.\nWhile in his second year at Yale, Noyes made what he considered a major theological discovery. While attempting to determine the date of the second coming of Christ, Noyes became convinced that the event had already occurred. His conclusion was that Christ's second coming had taken place in 70 AD and that therefore \"mankind was now living in a new age.\"\nWith this in mind Noyes became increasingly concerned with salvation from sin and with perfection. He began to argue with his colleagues that unless man was truly free of sin, then Christianity was a lie, and that only those who were perfect and free of sin were true Christians. This internal religious crisis brought about a new religious conversion within Noyes, after which he began to proclaim that he \"did not sin.\"\nIn 1838, Noyes married Harriet Holton. Initially, the couple had a traditional Christian marriage. In the first six years of the marriage Harriet gave birth five times. Four of the five births were premature. Only one of their children survived. These life experiences led Noyes to begin his study of sexual intercourse in marriage. In May 1846, Noyes had a romantic attraction to the wife of George Cragin, an early convert. He persuaded the Cragins and Mrs. Noyes to merge their unions into a \"complex marriage,\" in which both men were married to both women, such that they could have sex together. The two couples moved into a common house that same year. Noyes spent the next few years developing his ideas on male continence. In mid-1847 Noyes and some of his male converts began extending the scope of complex marriage to female converts, including several village widows and young women. This led to the October 1847 indictment of Noyes for \"adulterous fornication.\" After arraignment in court, Noyes absconded to New York, where in 1848 the Oneida Community was born.\nPerfectionist leader.\nCharles Grandison Finney, who had influenced Noyes' conversion, advocated the idea of Christian perfectionism, that it was possible to be free of sin in this lifetime, which Noyes took up with fervor. His statements on this doctrine caused his friends to think him unbalanced, and he began to be called a heretic by his own professors. From the moment of his conversion, Noyes maintained that because he had surrendered his will to God, everything he chose to do was perfect because his choices \"came from a perfect heart\". His theory centered on the idea that the fact that man had an independent will was because of God and that this independent will came from God, therefore rendering it divine. The only way to control mankind's will was with spiritual direction.\nNoyes proclaimed that \"it was impossible for the Church to compel man to obey the law of God, and to send him to eternal damnation for his failure to do so.\"\nNoyes claimed that \"his new relationship to God canceled out his obligation to obey traditional moral standards or the normal laws of society.\" As a result, Noyes started acting on impulses from his intuition rather than giving thought to the actions or consequences. On February 20, 1834, he declared himself perfect and free from sin. This declaration caused an outrage at his college, and his newly earned license to preach was revoked.\nUpon his expulsion from Yale and the revocation of his ministerial license, he returned to Putney, Vermont, where he continued to preach, declaring, \"I took away their license to sin and they go on sinning; they have taken away my license to preach but I shall go on preaching.\" The Putney community began to take shape. It started in 1836 as the \"Putney Bible School\" and became a formal communal organization in 1844, practicing complex marriage, male continence, and striving for perfection.\nResidents at Putney included Almira Edson, who was expelled from the community upon her marriage, which was not sanctioned by Noyes.\nOneida Community.\nOn October 26, 1847, Noyes was arrested for adultery, but was \"released until his trial before the County Court in April next,\" according to Harriet H. Skinner's October 29, 1847 letter to her mother. Upon receiving word that arrest warrants had been issued for several of his loyal followers, the group left Vermont for Oneida, New York, where Noyes knew some friendly Perfectionists with land. They settled there, and built their first communal dwelling in 1848, followed by the Mansion House. \nThe Oneida Community, as it came to be known, existed until 1881. It grew to have a membership of over 300, with branch communities in Brooklyn, New York; Wallingford, Connecticut; and Newark, New Jersey. The Community supported itself through many successful industries. They manufactured animal traps and silk thread, and grew and canned fruits and vegetables. Smaller industries included the manufacture of leather travel bags and palm-leaf hats. Their most successful trade was that of silverware.\nMale continence and complex marriage.\nThe Oneida community's utopian philosophy focused on the individual relationship to God; it was intended to be a sort of \"kingdom of God on earth.\" The second focus of the community was sexual morality. Noyes found masturbation and the practice of man to sow seeds that he did not wish to grow to be unnatural. Noyes identified three functions of the sexual organs: the urinary, the propagative, and the amative. Noyes believed in the separation of the amative from the propagative, and he put amative sexual intercourse on the same footing with other ordinary forms of social interchange. Sexual intercourse as Noyes defines it is the insertion of the penis into the vagina; ejaculation is not a requirement for sexual intercourse. Noyes found ordinary sexual intercourse to be:a momentary affair, terminating in exhaustion and disgust. If it begins in the spirit, it soon ends in the flesh; i. e., the amative, which is spiritual, is drowned in the propagative, which is sensual. The exhaustion which follows naturally breeds self-reproach and shame, and this leads to dislike and concealment of the sexual organs, which contract disagreeable associations from the fact that they are the instruments of pernicious excess. This undoubtedly is the philosophy of the origin of shame after the fall. Adam and Eve first sunk the spiritual in the sensual, in eating the forbidden fruit; and then, having lost the true balance of their natures, they sunk the spiritual in the sensual in their intercourse with each other, by pushing prematurely beyond the amative to the propagative, and so became ashamed, and began to look with an evil eye on the instruments of their folly.Intercourse was spiritual; masturbation and the practice of intercourse without intention to propagate was shameful and wasteful. Noyes' theory of male continence consisted of analyzing sexual intercourse, recognizing in it two distinct acts, the social and the propagative. Noyes believed this to be practical and believed that a man should be content with avoiding the pleasure except when procreation is a desired result. Noyes believed sex limited to traditional Christian marriage practices left most young people facing sexual starvation from puberty (which according to Noyes was 14) to the age of marriage (which was about 24). Noyes' solution was that the young men in the community would practice with the women of the community who had already gone through menopause, until they were able to control their ejaculation. Only Noyes and a few other men had the skills and self-control necessary to participate in sexual intercourse with the young women of the community. Sexual intercourse was communal, it was based on consent, and all sexual unions were documented and regulated. Sexual intercourse was spiritual, and the pairing of man and woman for sexual intercourse in the community had to be approved by a committee, although most of the virgin females of the community were reserved for Noyes. Noyes did believe that women had the right to choose if and when to bear a child, which was not a common belief at the time.\nNoyes also addressed the medical arguments in response to his practices:in regard to the injurious effects of Male Continence, which have been anticipated and often predicted, the Community has to report, in general, that they have not been realized. For example: It is seriously believed by many that nature requires a periodical and somewhat frequent discharge of the seed, and that the retention of it is liable to be injurious. Even if this were true, it would be no argument against Male Continence, but rather an argument in favor of masturbation; for it is obvious that before marriage men have no lawful method of discharge but masturbation; and after marriage it is as foolish and cruel to expend one's seed on a wife merely for the sake of getting rid of it, as it would be to fire a gun at one's best friend merely for the sake of unloading it.All the members of the community lived in their communal home, which made keeping track of sexual intercourse much easier. After sexual intercourse individuals were required to return to their own rooms.\nThe Community's practice of birth control meant that for many years the birthrate was low. Any children born into the community were raised by the community and not in the tradition of family.\nExile.\nIn June 1879, one of Noyes' most loyal followers alerted him that he was about to be arrested for statutory rape. In the middle of the night, Noyes fled Oneida for Ontario, Canada, where the Community had a factory. In August, he wrote back to the Community, stating that it was time to abandon the practice of complex marriage and live in a more traditional manner. The Community formally dissolved and converted to a joint stock company on January 1, 1881.\nAlthough Noyes never returned to the United States, he remained a powerful influence over many of his followers. Some even left Oneida to come to the Niagara Falls area. Jessie Catherine Kinsley, entertaining marriage proposals from two young men, wrote to Noyes for his advice. When Noyes advised her to reject both proposals and take up with Myron Kinsley\u2014the follower who had tipped him off to his impending arrest, and a man twenty years her senior\u2014she took Noyes' advice.\nDeath and legacy.\nJohn Humphrey Noyes died in Niagara Falls, Ontario, on April 13, 1886. His body was returned to Oneida and is buried in the Oneida Community Cemetery with those of many of his followers.\nIn the early decades of the 20th century, Noyes' son Pierrepont consolidated the Community's industries and focused solely on silverware production. The company became known as Oneida Limited and was the largest producer of flatware in the world for much of the 20th century. The Community's second communal dwelling, the brick \"mansion house\", survives today as a multi-use facility encompassing a museum, apartments, dormitory housing, guest rooms, and meeting and banquet facilities."}
{"id": "761879", "revid": "46069559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761879", "title": "Isernia", "text": "Isernia () is a town and \"comune\" in the southern Italian region of Molise, and the capital of the province of Isernia.\nGeography.\nSituated on a rocky crest rising from between the Carpino and the Sordo rivers, the plan of Isernia still reflects the ancient layout of the Roman town, with a central wide street, the \"cardo maximus\", still represented by Corso Marcelli, and side streets at right angles on both sides.\nThe comune of Isernia includes 16 frazioni. The most densely populated is Castelromano which is positioned in a plain at the base of the La Romana mount, elevation , from Isernia.\nHistory.\nThe city's Roman name, Aesernia, reflects probably a former Samnite toponym, but a connection to an Indo-European root, \"aeser\", which means \"water\", is tenuous.\nClassical Aesernia was a city of Samnium, included within the territory of the Pentri tribe, situated in the valley of the Vulturnus (modern Volturno), on a small stream flowing into that river, and distant from Venafrum (modern Venafro). The Itinerary (in which the name is written \"Serni\") places it on the road from Aufidena to Bovianum, at the distance of from the former, and from the latter; but the former number is corrupt, as are the distances in the \"Tabula Peutingeriana\".\nThe first mention of it in history occurs in 295 BC, at which time it had already fallen into the hands of the Romans, together with the whole valley of the Vulturnus. After the complete subjugation of the Samnites, a colony, with Latin rights (colonia Latina) was settled there by the Romans in 264 BC the city, a key communication center between southern Italy and the inner Regions. This colony is again mentioned in 209 BC as one of the eighteen which remained faithful to Rome at the most trying period of the Second Punic War. During the Social War it adhered to the Roman cause, and was gallantly defended against the Samnite general Vettius Scato, by Marcus Claudius Marcellus, nor was it till after a long protracted siege that it was compelled by famine to surrender, 90 BC. Henceforth it continued in the hands of the confederates; and at a later period of the contest afforded a shelter to the Samnite leader, Gaius Papius Mutilus, after his defeat by Lucius Cornelius Sulla. It even became for a time, after the successive fall of Corfinium (modern Corfinio) and Bovianum, the headquarters of the Italic League. At this time it was evidently a place of importance and a strong fortress, but it was so severely punished for its defection by Sulla after the final defeat of the Samnites in 88 BC, that Strabo speaks of it as in his time utterly deserted.\nWe learn, however, that a colony was sent there by Julius Caesar, and again by Augustus; but apparently with little success, on which account it was recolonized under Nero. It never, however, enjoyed the rank of a colony, but appears from inscriptions to have been a municipal town of some importance in the time of Trajan and the Antonines. To this period belong the remains of an aqueduct and a fine Roman bridge, still visible; while the lower parts of the modern walls present considerable portions of polygonal construction, which may be assigned either to the ancient Samnite city, or to the first Roman colony. The modern city is still the see of a bishop. The massively constructed podium now underlying the cathedral probably supported the Capitolium.\nIn the early 7th century AD, what are today the comuni of Isernia as well as Bojano and Sepino were the places where Grimoald I of Benevento settled a group of Bulgars, seeking refuge from the Avars; the Bulgars were for many generations a distinctive part of the population, until finally assimilated in their Italian environment (see Bulgarians in Italy, Old Great Bulgaria#Bulgars in Southern Italy).\nEven after the fall of the Western Roman Empire, Isernia has suffered destruction numerous times in history. Isernia was destroyed by the Saracens in 800, sacked by Markward of Anweiler, Count of Molise, in 1199, and set on fire in 1223 by the soldiers of Frederick II. In 1519 it was freed from feudal servitude by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor and became a city in the Kingdom of Naples.\nEarthquakes in 847, 1349, 1456 and 1805 caused massive destruction.\nDuring the era of Fascist Italy, Isernia was the site of a small fascist internment camp administered and operated by the province of Campobasso. The camp was located in a former Benedictine convent and was said to hold mostly Italians, with a small number of foreigners, including Slavs, Frenchmen, Germans, Romanians, and people from England, Poland, Hungary, Albania, and Syria. Internees were categorized as \"dangerous Italians\", \"enemy subjects\", \"foreign Jews\", and \"former Yugoslav\" citizens. Some of the prisoners were killed during the 1943 allied bombing raid.\nOn the morning of September 10, 1943, during World War II, American planes launched their bombs from B-17 Flying Fortress planes over a crowded town on market day causing thousands of deaths. In the following weeks they came back twelve times without ever hitting their targets: the bridges of Isernia, Cardarelli and Santo Spirito, then built entirely of iron, towards the internal area. All the bridges were vital to the German retreat.\nIn 1970 Isernia became the capital of the province of the same name, created out of part of the province of Campobasso.\nEconomy.\nThe hills around Isernia produces red, white and rose \"Pentro di Isernia\", an Italian DOC wine. The grapes are limited to harvest yields of 11 tonnes/ha with the finished red and \"rose\" wines needing a minimum alcohol level of 11% and the finished whites required to have at least 10.5% alcohol. The reds and \"roses\" are composed of 45-55% Montepulciano, 45-55% Sangiovese and up to 10% local grape varieties to fill out the blend if needed. The whites are composed of 60-70% Trebbiano, 30-40% Bombino bianco and up to 10% local varieties to fill out the blend if needed.\nCoinage.\nThe coins of Aesernia, which are found only in copper, and have the legend \"AISERNINO\", belong to the period of the first Roman colony; the style of their execution attests the influence of the neighboring Campania.\nMain sights.\nAlthough having suffered repeated destruction, Isernia preserves a large number of archaeological remains. The historical center still keeps intact the spare map structure of the Roman cities: in fact it represents the largest raced Marcelli street, around which there is an infinity of alleys and little spares, as for example, \"Trento e Trieste\" spares. The famous Fraterna Fountain, the town's main symbol, was built in the 13th century: it is made up of living stone's slabs coming from ruined Roman monuments, while all the rest is a work of local masters, commissioned by the Rampini family of Isernia.\n\"Fontana Fraterna\".\nThe \u201cFontana Fraterna\u201d is a refined public fountain with six water jets, with an unusual arcade-shape, made of blocks of calcareous, compact stone. It is built of Roman and Romanesque materials, and had been restored in 1835.\nThe fountain has articulated into three fillets laid one upon the other. From below, there is a series of smooth fillets (the one on the left is a Roman-epoch and fragmentary epigraph with the letters AE PONT, while in the centre there is a mat decorated with dolphins and a Roman-age flower, probably coming from a sepulchral building), then there is a median fillet with a series of six round arches supported, on the left side, by little circular columns and on the right side, by little octagonal columns.\nAbove these columns there are some capitals of re-employment. Two capitals have trapezoidal-plant abacus and perhaps adorned a window splay. The higher fillet presents a line of smooth ashlars on which twelve little hanging arches set, supported by little brackets adorned with zoomorphic, phytomorphic and geometric motives. On the bottom of the fountain, on a second level in respect to the arcade, you can distinguish two blocks of Roman age with some swags and a funerary epigraph dedicated to the god Mani. On its right side there is a third high-mediaeval epigraph, situated between two lion statues, referring to the building of a fountain. A deep study of the surfaces allows to verify that the blocks were worked on several occasions, with an extremely long interval, and that come from an undefined number of buildings of the town. Therefore, the handiwork represents an interesting abacus of workings, decorative elements, an exemplar of material culture with centuries of town history written on.\nLa Pineta.\nIsernia La Pineta is an archaeological excavation site containing thousands of bones and stone tools covering . It was discovered in 1979, by an amateur naturalist who noticed a bone sticking out of the side of a cut that had been created by the construction of the Napoli-Vasto motorway. The site was clearly created by humans, but its purpose is still unknown."}
{"id": "761880", "revid": "10810150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761880", "title": "Catalan phonology", "text": "The Catalan phonology (or Valencian phonology) has a certain degree of dialectal variation. Although there are two standard varieties, one based on Central Eastern dialect and another one based on South-Western or Valencian, this article deals with features of all or most dialects, as well as regional pronunciation differences.\nCatalan is characterized by final-obstruent devoicing, lenition and fortition of plosives, voicing assimilation, and gemination (consonant lengthening); a set of 7 to 8 phonemic vowels, vowel assimilations (including vowel harmony), many phonetic diphthongs, and vowel reduction, whose precise details differ between dialects.\nConsonants.\nPhonetic notes:\nObstruents.\nObstruents assimilate\u00a0to the voicing of the following consonant. Voiced obstruents undergo final-obstruent devoicing so that ('cold', m. s.) is pronounced with (, , ) while ('cold', f. pl.) is pronounced with (, , ).\nTable with minimal pairs:\nPlosives.\nVoiced plosives (also called stops) become lenited to approximants in syllable onsets, after continuants: \u2192 , \u2192 , \u2192 .\nIn Catalan and Balearic (not in Valencian), labial and , and velar stops and may be geminated in intervocalic position before (e.g. 'village, people', 'rule').\nIntervocalic is dropped (particularly in participles) in regular speech in Valencian, with compensatory lengthening of vowel ; e.g. ('afternoon').\nIn Majorcan varieties, velar stops and become and word-finally and before front vowels, in some of these dialects, this has extended to all environments except before liquids and back vowels; e.g. ('blood').\nIn the Valencian dialects final voiceless plosives () may be lenited before a vowel: ('all this').\nAffricates.\nThe phonemic status of affricates is dubious; after other consonants, affricates are in free variation with fricatives, e.g. (E) / (W) ('hair parting') and may be analyzed as either single phonemes or clusters of a stop and a fricative.\nThere is dialectal variation in regards to affricate length, with long affricates occurring in both Eastern and Western dialects such as in Majorca and few areas in Southern Valencia. Also, intervocalic affricates are predominantly long, especially those that are voiced or occurring immediately after a stressed syllable (e.g. (E) / (W) 'medic'). In Modern Valencian and have merged into , except in some parts of Southern Valencian. \nIn Aragonese Catalan (especially Ribagor\u00e7an) and Central Valencian (the so called accent), voiced fricatives and affricates are missing (i.e. has merged with , has merged with , with only voiceless realizations occurring).\nFricatives.\nThe labiodental fricative () occurs in Balearic, as well as in Alguerese, Standard Valencian and some areas in southern Catalonia. Everywhere else (including parts of Valencian, like its central dialect), it has merged with so that and occur in complementary distribution.\nIn Majorcan and Minorcan, undergoes total assimilation to a following consonant (just as stops do): ('large puff').\nThe dental fricative only appears in Ribagor\u00e7an and Lower Aragon, in contrast with . Spanish loanwords with this sound may be replaced by in both Catalan and Valencian.\nThe velar fricative (or uvular ) is found in Spanish interferences, especially in Aragon and Southern Valencia.\nThe glottal fricative is found in loanwords and interjections, although is usually replaced by in loanwords.\nSonorants.\nLaterals.\nLaterals assimilate the place of articulation of the following consonant (see \"Assimilations\" below). The lateral may be geminated in careful speech (e.g. 'illusion'). A geminated may also occur (e.g. (E) / (W) 'line').\nNasals.\nNasals assimilate the place of articulation of the following consonant (see \"Assimilations\" below). In careful speech, and may be geminated (e.g. (E) / (W) 'unnecessary', (E) / (W) 'to store'). \nRhotics.\nThe distribution of the two rhotics and closely parallels that of Spanish. Wheeler analyzes intervocalic as the result of gemination of a single rhotic phoneme: (E) / (W) 'saw, mountains' (this is similar to the common analysis of Spanish and Portuguese rhotics).\nVowels.\nPhonetic notes:\nStressed vowels.\nMost varieties of Catalan contrast seven stressed vowel phonemes. However, some Balearic dialects have an additional stressed vowel phoneme (); e.g. ('dry, I sit'). The stressed schwa of these dialects corresponds to in Central Catalan and in Western Catalan varieties (that is, Central and Western Catalan dialects differ in their incidence of and , with appearing more frequently in Western Catalan; e.g. Central Catalan vs. Western Catalan ('dry, I sit') - For a list showing the frequency of these vowels, see cases where /\u025b/ and /\u0254/ developed in modern Catalan (Central Standard Catalan) and Valencian (Western Catalan) and cases where /\u0259/ developed in Balearic Catalan).\nContrasting series of the main Catalan dialects:\nReduced vowels.\nIn Eastern Catalan, vowels in unstressed position reduce to three : , , (phonetically in Barcelona); , , ; remains unchanged. However there are some dialectal differences: Alguerese merges , and with ; and in most areas of Majorca, can appear in unstressed position (that is, and are usually reduced to ).\nIn Western Catalan (which includes Valencian and North-Western Catalan), vowels in unstressed position reduce to five: , ; , ; remain unchanged. However, in some Western dialects reduced vowels tend to merge into different realizations in some cases:\nVowel harmony.\nThe harmony of Valencian is a clear example of harmony conditioned by a strong element: in some Valencian dialects, word-final post-tonic becomes and when the preceding syllable contains tonic open-mid (or near-open) vowels and ; that is, and propagate the palatal and labial features, respectively, to the final vowel , as the examples. The articulatory features extend from a phonologically privileged position\u2014the stressed syllable\u2014to a weak position\u2014an unstressed syllable\u2014a perceptual asymmetry emphasized by the fact that the harmony trigger belongs to the radical while the assimilated segment is normally an inflectional affix.\nIn the most widespread system of harmony, both open-mid vowels cause assimilation; in other systems, distributed over the harmonic territory quite randomly, only one of the vowels triggers the change. For example, in Cullera only the front vowel causes assimilation, while in Borriana the labial vowel is the only one that allows harmony. However, in both the broadest and the narrowest versions, and even in the sporadic cases of two-way harmony that are presented here, the pattern of strong \u2192 weak extension remains constant.\nIn the harmonic phenomenon just described, articulatory features spread from left to right. However, there is no shortage of assimilations in which the features spread to the left of the prominent position. This occurs in Majorcan when pretonic is closed to in words that contain a close tonic vowel, e.g. \"c'nill\", \"c's\u00ed\", \"c\"\"m\u00fa\" (cf. ). The change involves the extension of the height feature again in the direction dictated by the strong \u2192 weak saliency relationship. Similar closures are documented in various Western languages; among these, Tortosan stands out, where the phenomenon, quite variable and often limited to the elderly, presents the peculiarity that height does not only propagate from tonic vowels, but can also do so from unstressed ones (cfr. ). In general terms, and in accordance with the data collected by (in prep.), a pretonic mid vowel may become close under the influence of a close vowel with the same point of articulation\u2014palatal or labial\u2014in a following syllable; in this way, vowel sequences of the type \"e...i\" and \"o...u\" become \"i...i\" a) and u...u b), respectively. The assimilation of mid vowels to a high vowel of a different point of articulation is possible, but in the sequence \"e...u\" it is reduced to some words c), and in the sequence \"o...i\" it is usually limited to fossilized cases, so that the disharmonious alternatives in d) reflect only copied pronunciations of the orthography.\nOf the phenomena presented above, the most common and systematic is the change \"e...i\" \u2192 \"i...i\". As in the examples, becomes when it precedes a stressed or unstressed . Closure can even affect a series of two pretonic vowels. Assimilation never affects stressed vowels and there is also no harmony when and do not occupy adjacent syllables.\nWith certain restrictions, the phenomenon can modify the final vowel of the first element of a compound and proclitic elements such as numerals or unstressed pronouns. In the last case, when the vowel of the pronoun is not strictly adjacent to the syllable that triggers the harmony, there is no assimilation; according to (in prep.), the lack of spread is related to the fact that groups of pronouns generate a secondary accent, which would protect the original quality of the vowel.\n also reports some examples of rightward (regressive) assimilation between weak elements; that is, cases where an unstressed sequence \"i...e\" becomes \"i...i\". Harmony to the right is documented only between vowels that are in pretonic position; therefore, the inflectional elements and the post-tonic vowels belonging to the radical are excluded from the change.\nGeneral Valencian is another variety in which the extension of features is limited to the main metric foot: in plain words, the final post-tonic, which is part of the main foot, is affected by harmony a); on the other hand, in proparoxytone words (\"esdr\u00faixoles\") the final does not belong to the main foot and is, therefore, beyond the scope of assimilation b). In Valencian from the south of Alicante, the harmony affects an intermediate layer between the main metrical foot and the clitic group: the prosodic word (PPr) (cfr. , , ).\nHarmony in General Valencian:\nHarmony from Southern Valencian (Alicante):\nIn the harmony of Valencian, Majorcan and, mostly, Tortosan, the features extend from a strong element to a weak element. In the other possible model, on the other hand, the features are spread in the reverse direction, that is, from positions that are not prominent to positions that are stronger from the perceptual point of view. The trigger for change is in this case a weak element (cf. ). Central Catalan provides an example of harmony\u2014with considerable geographical and idiolectal variation\u2014conditioned by segments located in weak positions. In this dialect, stressed mid vowels in words from other languages tend to be adapted as open mids, as in the paroxytones in example a), with regular reduction in the unstressed syllable, that is, with the vowels , and in this position. Borrowings also have the peculiarity that they tend to block the neutralization of the unstressed middle vowels e and o, which are realized as and , respectively. In principle, these two trends should not be mutually exclusive; however, if the post-tonic sound is close-mid, the tonic mids are usually also realized as close, as shown by the plain words in example b), in which the levelling between the two vowels is almost universal. Therefore, the quality of the most prominent vowel is determined by the features of the following vowel, since the appearance of close-mid vowels in tonic position depends on the presence of vowels of the same pitch in the post-tonic syllable.\nIn proparoxytones there is greater variability. In the variety analyzed by \"esdr\u00faixol\" words (i.e. words with stressed on the antepenultimate syllable) are generally subject to the same restrictions and the presence of a close mid in post-tonic position implies the presence of close mids in tonic position a); the syllabic adjacency between the two vowels is key to harmony, since words like \"S\u00f2crates\" or \"H\u00e8rcules\" are usually presented without assimilation despite the presence of an unreduced post-tonic e. In the variety described by , on the other hand, post-tonic vowels do not condition the realization of the tonic vowel in \"esdr\u00faixols\" b). On the other hand, and in accordance with the interpretation of the aforementioned authors, the adaptation of tonic vowels as open mids is compatible in all varieties with the appearance of unreduced mid vowels in pre-tonic syllables.\nOther harmony examples in Central Catalan:\nVowels in contact.\nOne of the most unique features of Catalan and Valencian is the treatment of vowels that come into contact within the speech chain. When a word-final vowel meets an initial vowel there are two possible reactions: lengthening (if both vowels are the same) or weakening/elision of one of the vowels (if they are different). In general terms, two consecutive vowels diphthongize more frequently in Valencian, North Western Catalan and Alguerese. Some examples (in Valencian):\nDiphthongs and triphthongs.\nThere are also a number of phonetic diphthongs and triphthongs, all of which begin and/or end in or .\nIn Standard Eastern Catalan, rising diphthongs (that is, those starting with or ) are only possible in the following contexts:\nProcesses.\nThere are certain instances of \"compensatory diphthongization\" in Majorcan so that ('logs') (in addition to deleting the palatal stop) develops a compensating palatal glide and surfaces as (and contrasts with the unpluralized ). Diphthongization compensates for the loss of the palatal stop (segment loss compensation). There are other cases where diphthongization compensates for the loss of point of articulation features (property loss compensation) as in ('year') vs. ('years').\nThe dialectal distribution of compensatory diphthongization is almost entirely dependent on the dorsal stop () and the extent of consonant assimilation (whether or not it is extended to palatals).\nVoiced affricates are devoiced after stressed vowels in dialects like Eastern Catalan where there may be a correlation between devoicing and lengthening (gemination) of voiced affricates: \u2192 ('medic'). In Barcelona, voiced stops may be fortified (geminated and devoiced); e.g. 'village, people').\nIn (Majorcan) Catalan is known the historical process of erasing the vowel (the nucleus) of unstressed final syllables. (cited by ) and , have proposed similar theories, in that one or more 'extrasyllabic' final consonants represent the opening of a syllable with null vowel (Burzio) or empty nucleus (Kaye). However, in the case of Catalan, such a structure is fundamentally the one that has been proposed (e.g. in ) to trigger vowel epenthesis in cases such as the followings:\nAssimilations.\nCatalan denti-alveolar stops can fully assimilate to the following consonant, producing gemination; this is particularly evident before nasal and lateral consonants: e.g. ('week'), ('rind'), ('Bethlehem'), ('roll'). Learned words can alternate between featuring and not featuring such assimilation (e.g. (E) / (W) 'atlas', (E) / (W) 'to submit', ~ 'ethnic').\nThere is dialectal variation regarding words with . While Central and North-Western Catalan tend to innovate with a palatalized pronunciation , Valencian and Balearic maintain the traditional pronunciation without palatalization , i.e. , in most cases (e.g. vs 'almond').\nValencian dialects (especially Central Valencian) features simple elision in many of these cases (e.g 'week', 'roll') and learned words might not exhibit either assimilation or elision: and .\nProsody.\nStress.\nStress most often occurs on any of the last three syllables of a word (e.g. (E) / (W) 'compass', 'punishment', (E) / (W) 'fool').\nCompound words and adverbs formed with may have a syllable with secondary stress (e.g. (E) (W) 'willingly'; (E) (W) 'lightning conductor') but every lexical word has just one syllable with main stress.\nPhonotactics.\nThe structure of the syllable shows a mandatory nucleus, and the optional presence of a margin before and/or behind the nucleus. Core and margin contrast articulatory due to the fact that the core is emitted with a higher degree of oral opening than the margin. In Catalan and Valencian, the core position is occupied by a vowel and the margin position by one or more consonants. Depending on the number of consonants that make up the margin and the location of the margin in relation to the core, syllabic structures of the type V, CV, VC, CVC, CCV, CCVC, CCVCC, VCC, VCCC, CVCC, CVCCC, etc. are possible. The margin that precedes the nucleus is called \"explosive\", and the one that follows it, \"implosive\", syllables can be classified as \"open\" or \"closed\" by virtue of the absence or presence of a margin postnuclear, respectively.\nAny consonant, as well as and may be an onset. Clusters may consist of a consonant plus a semivowel (C, C) or an obstruent plus a liquid. Some speakers may have one of these obstruent-plus-liquid clusters preceding a semivowel, e.g. ('watermelon'); for other speakers, this is pronounced (i.e. the semivowel must be syllabic in this context).\nWord-medial codas are restricted to one consonant + ( (E) / (W)). In the coda position, voice contrasts among obstruents are neutralized. Although there are exceptions (such as 'future'), syllable-final rhotics are often lost before a word boundary or before the plural morpheme of most words: (E) / (W) ('color') vs. (E) / (W) ('bright color').\nIn Central Eastern (and North-Western Catalan), obstruents fail to surface word-finally when preceded by a homorganic consonant (e.g. ). Complex codas simplify only if the loss of the segment doesn't result in the loss of place specification.\nWhen the suffix is added to it makes , indicating that the underlying representation is (with subsequent cluster simplification), however when the copula is added it makes . The resulting generalization is that this underlying will only surface in a morphologically complex word. Despite this, word-final codas are not usually simplified in most of Balearic and Valencian (e.g. ).\nAlthough the number ('twenty') is pronounced in Eastern Catalan due to the reduction of in , it regains its in numbers of its family (e.g. 'twenty-five'). In the same dialects, the word ('saint') regains its if it is followed by a vowel of a noun (e.g. 'Saint Stephen') although there is hesitation among speakers. There is also hesitation about the words ('one hundred ') and ('twenty') when they are combined with other nouns. \u00e9sADir recommends pronouncing them with before the words ('years'), ('men'), and ('hours'), usually silent in other cases, with equally permissible hesitations (e.g. 'one hundred euros' or ).\nThe preposition ('with') in Eastern Catalan is usually pronounced , but in careful speech when it is before a vowel sound or an is pronounced .\nWord-initial clusters from Graeco-Latin learned words tend to drop the first phoneme: ('gnome'), (E) / (W) ('mnemotechnical'), (E) / (W) ('pneumatic'), (E) / (W) ('pseudonym'), (E) / (W) ('pterodactylus').\nWord-final obstruents are devoiced; however, they assimilate voicing of the following consonant, e.g. (E) / (W) ('silkworm'). In regular and fast speech, stops often assimilate the place of articulation of the following consonant producing phonetic gemination: ('all good').\nThe fricatives and affricates , , , (and, according to some sources, ) become voiced when they occur at the end of a word and are followed by a word beginning with a vowel (e.g. (E) / (W) 'the' but (E) / (W) 'the grandparents', (E) / (W) 'short, low' but (E) / (W) 'Lower Ebro').\nThe pronunciation of at the end of words (e.g. 'sands [of a seasonal creek]', 'years', 'less') is typically pronounced . If the word is followed by a voiced consonant or a vowel (e.g. 'Arenys de Mar', 'previous years'), it would theoretically be pronounced as , which would typically be pronounced . In some speakers the actual pronunciation would be an affricate ( in the coda, and before a voiced consonant or a vowel). Also, among certain speakers of some variants (e.g. Valencian), the same occurs with \u2192 (e.g. 'they', 'valleys'), which may also vary with an affricate and assimilate voicing \u2192 or (e.g. 'they are', 'the valleys of Marina').\nDialectal variation.\nThe differences in the vocalic systems outlined above are the main criteria used to differentiate between the major dialects:\nWheeler distinguishes two major dialect groups, western and eastern dialects; the latter of which only allow , , and to appear in unstressed syllables and include Northern Catalan, Central Catalan, Balearic, and Alguerese. Western dialects, which allow any vowel in unstressed syllables, include Valencian and North-Western Catalan.\nRegarding consonants, betacism and fricative\u2013affricate alternations are the most prominent differences between dialects.\nOther dialectal features are:\nHistorical development.\nCatalan shares features with neighboring Romance languages (Occitan, Italian, Sardinian, French, Spanish).\nIn contrast with many other Romance languages, Catalan has many monosyllabic words; and those ending in a wide variety of consonants and some consonant clusters. Also, Catalan has final obstruent devoicing, thus featuring many couplets like ('male friend') vs. ('female friend')."}
{"id": "761881", "revid": "51944416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761881", "title": "J. Craig Wright", "text": "J. Craig Wright (June 21, 1929 \u2013 February 3, 2010) was an American jurist, lawyer, and Republican justice of the Ohio Supreme Court who served in that office from 1985 to 1996.\nThrough his marriage to Jane LaFollette, Wright was connected to the Hatfields of West Virginia, descendants of William Anderson \"Devil Anse\" Hatfield of Hatfield\u2013McCoy feud fame, and the LaFollette family, a political dynasty with roots in West Virginia and across the United States. His extended family also includes Vice President J.D. Vance through the Hatfield\u2013Vance line.\nWright was born June 21, 1929, in Chillicothe, Ohio to Harry Jr. and Marjorie Riddle Wright and raised in Lima, Ohio. He graduated from Woodberry Forest School in 1947, earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Kentucky in 1951 and received his Juris Doctor from Yale Law School in 1954, where he received a golf scholarship.\nFrom 1955 through 1956, he served as a special agent in the U.S. Army Counter Intelligence Corps. Upon completion of his military service, he entered private practice with the law firm of Wright, Gilbert and Jones in Columbus, Ohio.\nJudicial career.\nIn 1970, Wright was elected to the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas, where he served for fourteen years, including terms as administrative and presiding judge. In 1984, he defeated incumbent Justice James P. Celebrezze and was elected to the Ohio Supreme Court, taking office on January 2, 1985. He was re-elected in 1990 and served until March 6, 1996.\nOn the bench, Wright was part of a conservative majority that emphasized legislative intent and precedent. While he generally supported capital punishment, he dissented in \"State v. Berry\" (1995), citing concerns about the execution of defendants with significant mental illness.\nFollowing his retirement, Wright entered private practice in Columbus, Ohio. He retired from private practice in 2003 and served by assignment of the Chief Justice on the Ohio Court of Claims through 2009.\nWork on substance abuse and recovery.\nWright's most enduring legacy was his work in addressing substance abuse and addiction within the legal system. Recognizing the toll that alcoholism and drug dependency were taking on lawyers and judges, he became an early advocate for recovery programs in the judiciary.\nChief Justice Thomas J. Moyer later praised Wright not only as \u201can extraordinary jurist\u201d but also as a pioneer in integrating recovery into the justice system, noting that his efforts helped destigmatize treatment for addiction among both professionals and defendants.\nPublic service and reform.\nWright was a leading advocate for addressing substance abuse and impairment in the legal profession. He chaired and served on committees including the Ohio Recovery Council, the American Bar Association's Committee on Death Penalty Issues, and Ohio's Committee on Impaired Lawyers.\nPersonal life.\nWright married Jane LaFollette, who connected him by marriage to both the Hatfield and LaFollette families.\nWright's sister, Patricia Wright Klitgaard, was married to Thomas Klitgaard, a businessman and philanthropist.\nWright and Jane LaFollette had two daughters, Marjorie Jane and Alice Ann, and three grandchildren.\nDeath and legacy.\nWright died on February 3, 2010, in Palm Springs, California, and was buried in Forest Lawn Cemetery, Columbus, Ohio. Chief Justice Thomas J. Moyer described him as \u201can extraordinary jurist,\u201d highlighting both his legal intellect and his pioneering work on addiction recovery within the legal profession."}
{"id": "761883", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761883", "title": "Norman Cohn", "text": "Norman Rufus Colin Cohn FBA (12 January 1915 \u2013 31 July 2007) was a British academic, historian and writer who spent 14 years as a professorial fellow and as Astor-Wolfson Professor at the University of Sussex.\nLife.\nCohn was born in London, to a German Jewish father and a Catholic mother. He was educated at Gresham's School and Christ Church, Oxford. According to the Italian scholar Lorenzo Ferrari, \"Cohn grew up feeling 'a man between all worlds' with his German-Jewish surname, his mother's Catholic faith (although she never had him baptised), and his numerous German relatives\". He was a scholar and research student at Christ Church between 1933 and 1939, taking a first-class degree in Modern Languages in 1936 (French) and in 1939 (German). He served for six years in the British Army, being commissioned into the Queen's Royal Regiment in 1939 and transferring to the Intelligence Corps in 1944, where his knowledge of modern languages found employment.\nIn 1941, he married Vera Broido, with whom he had a son, the writer Nik Cohn. In the immediate post-war period, he was stationed in Vienna, ostensibly to interrogate Nazis, but he encountered many refugees from Stalinism, and the similarities in persecutorial obsessions evinced both by Nazism and Stalinism fueled his interest in the historical background for these ideologically opposed, yet functionally similar movements. After his discharge, he taught successively in universities in Scotland, Ireland, England, the United States and Canada.\nIn 1962, Cohn was approached by \"Observer\" editor David Astor after Astor gave a speech on the psychopathological roots of extremism. Cohn became the head of the Centre for Research in Collective Psychopathology (later, Columbus Centre), which was set up and initially financed by Astor to look into the causes of extremism and persecution. In 1966, the Centre was formally set up as a research project at the University of Sussex. From 1973 to 1980, Cohn was Astor-Wolfson Professor of History at Sussex.\nFollowing the death of his wife Vera, in December 2004 he married Marina Voikhanskaya, a psychiatrist of Russian origin who had protested in the 1970s against the forcible detainment of political dissidents in the Soviet Union. Norman Cohn died on 31 July 2007, in Cambridge, England, at the age of 92, from a degenerative heart condition.\nCareer.\nCohn's work as a historian focused on the problem of the roots of that persecutorial fanaticism which became resurgent in modern Europe at a time when industrial progress and the spread of democracy had convinced many that modern civilisation had stepped out forever from the savageries of earlier historical societies. In his \"The Pursuit of the Millennium\", an influential work translated into more than eleven languages, he traced back to the distant past the pattern of chiliastic upheaval that marred the revolutionary movements of the 20th century. Likewise, in \"Europe's Inner Demons\" he tracked the historical sources of the mania for scapegoating minorities which, within Christendom, culminated in the Great European witchhunt.\nHis book \"Warrant for Genocide\" criticizes the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", an antisemitic forgery purporting to describe a Jewish conspiracy for world domination. He argued that this conspiracy theory motivated its supporters to seek the of the Jewish people and became a major psychological factor in the Nazi Holocaust.\nIn \"Cosmos, Chaos and the World to Come\" (1993), he sought to trace the source of millennial religious themes in ancient civilizations. Cohn, with his background in dealing with totalitarian regimes and the sufferings of his relatives during the Holocaust, described all his work as studies on the phenomena that sought \"to purify the world through the annihilation of some category of human beings imagined as agents of corruption and incarnations of evil\".\nHis work was honoured by his election as a Fellow of the British Academy, for which he was nominated by Isaiah Berlin. His \"The Pursuit of the Millennium\" was ranked as one of the 100 most influential books of the 20th century in a survey conducted by \"The Times Literary Supplement\".\nAs Ferrari pointed out, \"the writings of Norman Cohn have gone on to influence entire generations of readers and scholars, from all sorts of backgrounds and vocations. Through their works, historians Stuart Clark (\"Thinking with Demons\", 1997), Michael Burleigh (\"The Third Reich\", 2000; \"Earthly Powers\", 2005; \"Sacred Causes\", 2006), Daniel Pick (\"The Pursuit of the Nazi Mind\", 2012), philosophers Pierre-Andr\u00e9 Taguieff (\"L\u2019imaginaire du complot mondial\", 2006), John Nicholas Gray (\"\", 2007) and novelists William Gibson and Ian McEwan have evidenced their intellectual debt to Cohn, who\u2014in the words of psychiatrist Anthony Storr\u2014dedicated his entire life to \u2018the important parts of history other historians do not reach: the collective myths that underpin the assumptions, prejudices and beliefs which shake and shape human societies\u2019\".\nWorks.\nBooks\nEssays"}
{"id": "761884", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761884", "title": "Arthur Noyes", "text": "Arthur Noyes may refer to:"}
{"id": "761885", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761885", "title": "Arthur A. Noyes", "text": ""}
{"id": "761886", "revid": "1307424258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761886", "title": "Arthur Amos Noyes", "text": "Arthur Amos Noyes (September 13, 1866 \u2013 June 3, 1936) was an American chemist, inventor and educator, born in Newburyport, Massachusetts, son of Amos and Anna Page Noyes, n\u00e9e Andrews. He received a PhD in 1890 from Leipzig University under the guidance of Wilhelm Ostwald.\nHe served as the acting president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology between 1907 and 1909 and as professor of chemistry at the California Institute of Technology from 1919 to 1936. \"Although [the Noyes] laboratory at MIT was like an institute in its intramural funding (from Carnegie Institute of Washington and Noyes's patent royalties), Noyes recruited many of his disciples as undergraduates and took a deep interest in undergraduate engineering education, both at MIT and later at Caltech. Roscoe Gilkey Dickinson was one of his famous students.\nNoyes was a major influence both on the educational philosophy of the core curriculum of Caltech as well as in the negotiations leading to the creation of the National Research Council along with George Ellery Hale and Robert Millikan. He also served on the board of trustees for Science Service, now known as Society for Science &amp; the Public, between 1921 and 1927.\nNoyes was an elected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the United States National Academy of Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society.\nNoyes\u2013Whitney equation.\nAlong with Willis Rodney Whitney, he formulated the Noyes\u2013Whitney equation in 1897, which relates the rate of dissolution of solids to the properties of the solid and the dissolution medium. It is an important equation in pharmaceutical science. The relation is given by:\nWhere:"}
{"id": "761889", "revid": "178380396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761889", "title": "The Brandeis International Business School", "text": ""}
{"id": "761890", "revid": "125972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761890", "title": "Magnus Stenbock", "text": "Count Magnus Stenbock (22 May 1665 \u2013 23 February 1717) was a Swedish field marshal (\"F\u00e4ltmarskalk\") and Royal Councillor. A commander of the Carolean Army during the Great Northern War, he was a prominent member of the Stenbock family. He studied at Uppsala University and joined the Swedish Army during the Nine Years' War, participating in the Battle of Fleurus in 1690. After the battle, he was appointed lieutenant colonel, entered Holy Roman service as Adjutant General, and married Eva Magdalena Oxenstierna, daughter of statesman Bengt Gabrielsson Oxenstierna. Returning to Swedish service he received colonelcy of a regiment in Wismar, and later became colonel of the Kalmar and then Dalarna regiments.\nDuring the Great Northern War, Stenbock served under King Charles XII in his military campaigns in the Baltic and Polish fronts. As director of the General War Commissariat, Stenbock collected substantial funds and supplies for the maintenance of the Swedish army, earning the admiration of Charles XII. In 1705, he was appointed general of the infantry and Governor General of Scania. As acting governor, Stenbock displayed his administrative skills and organized Scania's defense against an invading Danish army, which he defeated at the Battle of Helsingborg in 1710. In 1712, he conducted a campaign in northern Germany and defeated a Saxon-Danish army at the Battle of Gadebusch, which earned him his field marshal's baton. His career plummeted after his merciless destruction of the city of Altona in 1713. Surrounded by overwhelming allied troops, Stenbock was forced to surrender to King Frederick IV of Denmark during the siege of T\u00f6nning. During his captivity in Copenhagen, the Danes revealed Stenbock's escape attempt and imprisoned him in Kastellet. There he was the subject to a defamation campaign conducted by Frederick IV and died in 1717 after years of harsh treatment.\nBesides his military and administrative professions, Stenbock was regarded as a skilled speaker, painter and craftsman. His military successes contributed to the creation of a heroic cult in Sweden. During the age of romantic nationalism he was consistently praised by Swedish historians and cultural personalities, such as Carl Snoilsky in his poem \"Stenbock's courier\". His name has inspired streets in several Swedish cities and in 1901 an equestrian statue of Stenbock was unveiled outside Helsingborg city hall.\nEarly life.\nMagnus Stenbock was born on 22 May 1665 in the parish of Jakob, Stockholm. He was the sixth child of Gustaf Otto Stenbock, member of the Privy Council and Field Marshal, and Christina Catharina De la Gardie, daughter of the Lord High Constable Jacob De la Gardie and sister of the Lord High Chancellor Magnus Gabriel De la Gardie. Magnus Stenbock was born a count, since Gustaf Otto Stenbock and his brothers Fredrik and Erik were made counts by Queen Christina in 1651. The Stenbock family originates from the Middle Ages. De la Gardie descended from the French-born General Pontus De la Gardie, who became a Swedish nobleman and Baron during the 1570s.\nMagnus Stenbock spent much of his childhood with his siblings in the pleasure palace Runsa in Uppland; in the winters they moved to B\u00e5\u00e5tska Palace on Blasieholmen in Stockholm. When he was 10 years old, his father Gustaf Otto was deposed as Lord High Admiral after being considered to have failed in his mission and was forced to pay the extended fleet reparation of up to 200,000 daler. Gustaf Otto appeased King Charles XI, who decided to halve his fine and appointed him Admiral and commander of Western Sweden during the Scanian War. After the war, Gustaf Otto faced additional financial bills as a result of Charles XI's reductions and his breakdown of the old authority of the Privy Council. Gustaf Otto and Christina Catharina solved their financial hardships, but were forced to pay huge sums of money to the crown. They sold large parts of the family's properties and estates, retaining only Runsa, Torpa stenhus in V\u00e4sterg\u00f6tland and Vapn\u00f6 Castle in Halland. Gustaf Otto had disgraced the Stenbock name and injured the King's confidence towards the family. His family's disgrace impacted Magnus Stenbock on a personal level and motivated him to try to restore the Stenbock name.\nEducation and military service.\nMagnus Stenbock was tutored at home from 1671. Haquin Spegel taught him Christianity, and reading and writing in both Swedish and Latin. After Spegel, Stenbock was lectured by theology expert Erik Frykman. Frykman was succeeded by Uppsala student Olof Hermelin, who taught Stenbock between 1680 and 1684, and had a great influence on his linguistic and intellectual development. From Hermelin, Stenbock received practical oratory exercises and was lectured on leading cultural languages such as German and French, ancient history, geography, political science, law, and physical exercises such as fencing, dancing and equitation. Stenbock developed a strong interest in geometry, especially in the field of fortification, and according to Hermelin, displayed great rhetorical and linguistic talent at an early stage.\nIn the autumn of 1682 Stenbock entered Uppsala University, where he and Olof Hermelin attended lectures with Olof Gardman, professor of Roman law, and Olof Rudbeck, professor of medicine. To complete his master's degree, Stenbock conducted an extensive educational voyage in Western Europe. Stenbock traveled in the spring of 1684 with a small company, partly financed by Queen Ulrika Eleonora, with Hermelin serving as host. The first destination was Amsterdam, where Stenbock practiced his language skills and took classes in turning. Inspired by the Dutch painters, Stenbock used his spare time to learn how to paint realistic birds. The next destination was Paris, where Stenbock took private lectures in mathematics from Jacques Ozanam. In 1685 Hermelin left Stenbock after Christina Catharina De la Gardie withdrew her financial support.\nIn the spring of 1685, Stenbock returned to the Netherlands. With the help of his cousin, Countess Maria Aurora von K\u00f6nigsmarck, he attained an audience with Count Gustaf Carlsson, who was commander of a Dutch regiment, and applied for a commission as ensign in his regiment. The following year Stenbock obtained a Dutch commission from William of Orange, which marked the start of his military career and the end of his travels. In 1687 Stenbock served in Stade, in the Swedish province of Bremen-Verden, as captain of an enlisted German regiment under the command of Stade's commandant, Colonel Mauritz Vellingk.\nNine Years' War (1689\u20131695).\nIn September 1688 Stenbock was appointed major in the Swedish auxiliary corps led by General Nils Bielke in the Nine Years' War against France. At that time Sweden was in an alliance with the Netherlands. In January 1689 Stenbock and the Swedish auxiliary corps, under the command of lieutenant colonel Johan Gabriel Ban\u00e9r, were sent to the garrison of Nijmegen. Stenbock stayed in Nijmegen while large parts of the Swedish troops were sent back to the Swedish provinces in Germany, due to tensions between Denmark and the Duchy of Holstein-Gottorp. The duchy lay south of Denmark, and was allied with Sweden. In early June Stenbock and his regiment were sent to the garrison of Maastricht. In September he was granted permission by Prince Georg Friedrich of Waldeck to volunteer in the allied army. He experienced no battles, and when the army established winter quarters Stenbock traveled home to Stockholm.\nStenbock returned to Maastricht in April 1690, and was immediately commissioned to the front lines in Wallonia in the Spanish Netherlands, where the Swedish auxiliary corps united with the 30,000-strong allied army of Prince Waldeck. On 29 June of the same year Waldeck was briefed that a French army of 40,000 men under the Duke of Luxembourg was positioned at the town of Fleurus, which came as a huge surprise in the allied field camp. The next day Waldeck's army marched towards the Sambre river, and on 1 July the bloody battle of Fleurus took place. Stenbock stood with the Swedish auxiliary corps on the right wing of the allied army, and witnessed the defeat of Waldeck's army at the hands of Luxembourg. During the retreat Stenbock took over the command of a Swedish battalion, which he brought to safety from the battlefield, taking some French prisoners and a French standard. Waldeck suffered heavy losses, with the Swedish relief corps effectively destroyed.\nAfter the battle, King Charles XI appointed Stenbock lieutenant colonel in Mauritz Vellingk's regiment in Stade. There he worked on administrative and disciplinary tasks for the regiment. In the spring of 1692, a new Swedish auxiliary corps was sent to Heidelberg to support the German troops at the Rhine. Hundreds of men from Vellingk's regiment were assigned to the corps, including Stenbock. Stenbock was commissioned to apply for a transit permit from the Landgrave of Hesse-Kassel, Charles I. At the beginning of July 1692 the commander of the allied troops at the Rhine, Christian Ernst, Margrave of Brandenburg-Bayreuth, decided to cross the river to face Field Marshal Guy Aldonce de Durfort de Lorges in open battle. The Margrave commissioned Stenbock to take command of a battalion of 300 men and two cannon, and bring a transport fleet via the river route from the town of Gersheim, south of Mainz, to the allied headquarters at Ladenburg near the Neckar's inflow into the Rhine. The journey to Gersheim was carried out without hindrance, however, halfway on the way back Stenbock was bombarded by French artillery batteries positioned at Westhofen, Mannheim and Worms. With minor casualties and several damaged ships, Stenbock was able to return to the allied camp and his operation was hailed as a success.\nAt the end of August the allied army crossed the Rhine to face the French troops at the fortified town of Speyer. After two days of heavy bombardment from French cannons, the allied troops were forced to retreat, and Stenbock ended up among the troops securing the retreat. In June 1693, Stenbock returned to Heidelberg and enlisted with Louis William, Margrave of Baden-Baden, with whom he participated in the relief of Heilbronn. Stenbock searched for commissions in Celle, Hanover and Hesse-Kassel, and was encouraged by Louis William to court Emperor Leopold I in Vienna, to obtain imperial employment. In September Stenbock was appointed colonel of the imperial army, but without a regiment, and was forced to recruit by himself. On the other hand, Stenbock was also promised a position as adjutant general in Louis William's army, which was participating in numerous operations around the Electoral Palatinate. In the spring of 1695, Stenbock was sent by the Emperor to Stockholm to present the Emperor's demand for Swedish auxiliary troops to King Charles XI, but, due to the King's indignation regarding imperial military operations in his own duchy of Palatine Zweibr\u00fccken, Stenbock returned empty-handed. In September 1696 Stenbock parted ways with the Margrave and the imperial army.\nMarriage and family.\nDuring his stay in Stockholm in 1686, Stenbock courted Eva Magdalena Oxenstierna, daughter of Bengt Gabrielsson Oxenstierna, President of the Privy Council Chancellery, and Magdalena Stenbock, a politically active countess. Magnus and Eva exchanged letters during his garrison service in Stade and in the Netherlands. Their affections were conveyed, on behalf of Stenbock, by his mother, and on behalf of Eva Oxenstierna, by both her parents and her older brother Bengt. He sent her a written proposal of marriage on 11 January 1689. As part of the arrangement, Stenbock sent his first self-portrait to her on 29 March 1689. Eva accepted his proposal in late spring, when Stenbock received the portrait of Eva from her brother Bengt. In November Stenbock traveled to Stockholm to meet his future wife. The wedding took place on 23 March 1690, with the members of the Privy Council and the royal family participating. Stenbock became a favorite of Charles XI, and particularly of Queen Ulrika Eleonora. Stenbock's parents-in-law would assist him in his future career, including his imperial employment and his appointments as colonel in several Swedish regiments. Bengt Oxenstierna also used him for diplomatic assignments, to secure his influence on Swedish foreign affairs.\nMagnus Stenbock and Eva Oxenstierna were married for twenty-seven years, but because of Stenbock's military service, the couple only lived together for seven years. Nevertheless, they maintained a regular correspondence and Eva visited Stenbock several times in army camps. During the first ten years of their marriage they lived off Stenbock's poor officers' salary, but during the early 18th century, Stenbock was able to collect a fortune. He sent the money, along with expensive interior decors, to Eva, which she used to buy and decorate several estates. As a landowner in Sweden, she supervised the family's finances and the children's upbringing.\nThey had eleven children, of which five sons and two daughters reached adulthood:\nThe oldest daughter, Ulrika Magdalena, married Admiral Carl Wachtmeister, while the youngest, Eva Charlotta, married Christian Barnekow, the governor of Kristianstad County. Stenbock's four oldest sons pursued military careers, while the youngest, Gustaf Leonard, became a judge and vice governor of Kronoberg County. The older sons, Bengt Ludvig and Fredrik Magnus, made their joint peregrination from the Netherlands to Paris in 1712 and were presented to King Louis XIV by the Duke of Noailles and Erik Sparre. Bengt Ludvig left his military career when he inherited and moved to the Kolk estate in Estonia, where he became a noble councillor. Contemporary descendants of Magnus Stenbock originate from his sons Fredrik Magnus and Gustaf Leonard.\nRegimental commander (1695\u20131700).\nDuring his military service, Stenbock suffered from growing economic problems. He was forced to support the needs of his family in Frankfurt by sending money exchanges. Stenbock visited Kassel, where he was invited to a princely masquerade ball and received gifts from Landgrave Charles I and his son, Prince Frederick. The Landgrave offered Stenbock a commission as equerry and colonel for a Hessian infantry regiment, but Stenbock rejected the Landgrave's offer for fear of his position with Charles XI. In January 1697 Stenbock courted Elector Frederick III at his court in Berlin to collect an old debt sent by his father to Brandenburg-Prussia in 1655. After Stenbock's audience with the Elector half of the debt was repaid, and Stenbock received the remaining 6,000 riksdaler as a deposit for a later time. He sent most of his compensation to Berlin as a money exchange to his wife. He then returned to Stade to prepare for the family's arrival, but due to sickness and economic problems, the family was forced to remain in Frankfurt.\nCharles XI died in April 1697 and was succeeded on the Swedish throne by his son, Charles XII. At the end of May 1697, the young king appointed Stenbock to succeed Jakob von Kemphen as regimental colonel and commandant in Wismar. After redeeming a wage claim of 3,000 riksdaler at the imperial court in Vienna, Stenbock could pay his family's debts to creditors in Frankfurt and in August the family moved into the commandant's residence in Wismar. As commandant, Stenbock was responsible for the repair of Wismar's defenses. His regiment in the city consisted of about 1,000 German infantry recruits. Stenbock also spent time writing a war manual called \"Den svenska knekteskolan\" (The Swedish Soldier's School), which described different infantry tactics, march techniques, the use of military barriers, and basic fortification; he never published it. On 2 January 1699 Stenbock was appointed colonel of the Kalmar Regiment. A few weeks later, Stenbock and his family moved to the colonel's residence of Kronob\u00e4ck in Sm\u00e5land. On 16 February 1700, Stenbock was appointed colonel of the Dalarna Regiment by the King. This was made possible thanks to Count Carl Piper, after his wife Christina Piper's recommendation, when Magdalena Stenbock gave Christina a pair of precious earrings. Before Stenbock was able to move into his new colonel's residence in N\u00e4s Kungsg\u00e5rd, close to the Dal\u00e4lven, his regiment received orders to mobilize and march south to Scania, at the start of the Great Northern War.\nGreat Northern War (1700\u20131713).\nCampaign in Denmark and the Baltics.\nThe Great Northern War began on 12 February 1700, when the King of Poland and Elector of Saxony, August II, besieged the city of Riga in Swedish Livonia. Simultaneously, King Frederick IV of Denmark ordered his Danish troops to invade Holstein-Gottorp. Russia entered the war on August the same year, and on September, Russian troops under Tsar Peter I invaded Swedish Ingria and besieged the outpost of Narva in Estonia.\nStenbock was ordered to immediately join his regiment that was marching towards Scania. He arranged field equipment in Stockholm and joined his regiment in K\u00f6ping. Stenbock bid farewell to his family in V\u00e4xj\u00f6, and his regiment arrived at Landskrona in July to await embarkation for further transport to Zealand. On 25 July Swedish troops led by the King landed at Humleb\u00e6k, where the Danish defenders were quickly routed, and the Swedes established a bridgehead on Zealand. Two weeks after the landing, Stenbock and the Dalarna Regiment arrived on Zealand, strengthening the Swedish force there to about 10,000 men. This forced Frederick IV to withdraw from the war on 8 August 1700 with the treaty of Traventhal. Stenbock and his regiment were shipped back to Scania in late August.\nIn early October, Stenbock sailed with the Dalarna Regiment to Pernau, and joined Charles XII and the Swedish main army marching towards Narva. On 20 November, the Swedish army arrived at the outskirts of Narva. Through reconnaissance the Swedes learned that the Russians, who were about 30,000 strong including thousands of camp followers, had built a fortification system in a semicircle between the north and south sides of the city. Lieutenant general Carl Gustav Rehnski\u00f6ld took command of the army. He drafted a battle plan where two Swedish columns would attack and break through the fortification line, and each column would then move to the south and north along the line and roll up the Russian defense so that the Russian army would be trapped in two pockets against the Narva River. Rehnski\u00f6ld himself commanded the left column while General Otto Vellingk commanded the right column. Within Rehnski\u00f6ld's column, Stenbock was appointed to command an advance guard of 516 men, consisting of about fifty grenadiers, a battalion of dalcarlians (soldiers of the Dalarna Regiment) and a supporting battalion from a Finnish regiment. Stenbock and his troops spearheaded the first wave of Swedish attacks.\nThe Battle of Narva took place on the afternoon of 20 November. The two Swedish columns, hidden by a heavy snowstorm that blew directly into the eyes of the Russians, breached the Russian fortifications. The breakthroughs caused panic among the Russian troops, and after a wild rout the Russian army surrendered and were allowed to withdraw back to Russia. About 9,000 Russian soldiers died during the battle, and their entire command was captured, while the Swedish casualties were estimated to be around 1,900. Among Stenbock's troops, about 60 were killed and 149 were severely wounded; Stenbock himself was hit in the leg by a musket ball. The commander of the Russian army, Duke Charles Eug\u00e8ne de Cro\u00ff, and several senior officers surrendered themselves to Stenbock, who personally brought them to the King's camp as prisoners of war.\nStenbock was bedridden for two weeks after the battle. Just a few days later, Charles XII visited his sickbed, congratulated Stenbock for his bravery and promoted him to major general of infantry. During December, the main Swedish army overwintered outside the town of Dorpat and the dilapidated Laiuse Castle. On the way to the castle, Stenbock accompanied the state secretary Carl Piper in his wagon, which meant that Stenbock now stood in the King's innermost circle. On 25 December Charles XII ordered Stenbock to take 600 men and four cannons into Russian territory, with the aim of occupying the city of Gdov on the other side of Lake Peipus. On 29 December Stenbock started his march with 300 Finnish cavalry units and an equal number of infantry units, mostly dalcarlians travelling on sleds with five men each. After five days they encountered an advance guard of about 300 Russian dragoons. With the help of his field artillery, Stenbock repelled the Russian attacks and continued his march. During the night after the battle, Stenbock and his troops were hit by a blizzard. The combination of overwhelming Russian troops deployed around them and the persistent cold weather forced Stenbock to retreat to Estonian soil. He burned down villages in the area surrounding Gdov and, after several skirmishes with Russian troops, returned to the main Swedish army on 6 January 1701. Upon return to the royal camp, only 100 of his 600 men were combat effective.\nThroughout the winter and spring of 1701 Stenbock courted Charles XII and maintained his regiment. On 28 January the Swedish army command gathered in Stenbock's quarters at the Laisholm estate, where Stenbock and his regiment arranged a large feast and a theater performance, with songs celebrating Charles XII and his victory at Narva. At this time, Stenbock was nicknamed \"M\u00e5ns Bock\" (M\u00e5ns the buck), \"M\u00e5ns Lurifax\" (M\u00e5ns the sly dog) and \"Bocken\" (billy goat) by Charles XII. On 8 March Stenbock arranged a snowball fight where hundreds of soldiers fought against each other in a simulated siege, later concluding with Stenbock exercising his dalcarlians in front of the King. Stenbock's ventures were highly appreciated by the King, who awarded him with a magnificent horse and appointed him general drill instructor to every infantry regiment during the winter break. His drills laid the foundation for a new infantry regulation issued during the spring of 1701. Stenbock was also praised by Bengt Oxenstierna, who in letters to Stenbock urged him to offer advice to the King, and to persuade him to commence peace talks with the hostile states to sustain the balance of power in Europe.\nCampaign in Poland.\nWith reinforcements from the Swedish mainland, the Swedish main army broke camp in June and marched south towards Riga to confront King Augustus II's Saxon and Russian troops. By 7 July the army was outside Riga. Charles XII and Rehnski\u00f6ld planned to cross the Daugava river right next to the city and assault Augustus II troops on the opposite shore. In the Swedish battle plan, drafted by Rehnski\u00f6ld, Carl Magnus Stuart and Erik Dahlbergh, the troops were ordered to collect landing boats near Riga and construct floating batteries. The batteries would convey infantry units across the river to establish a bridgehead. During the operation on 9 July, Stenbock assisted in the construction of a floating bridge to allow the cavalry to cross the river. However, strong currents caused the floating bridge to be destroyed, and by the time it was repaired it was too late to influence the outcome of the battle. The main army occupied Courland and overwintered at the castle of W\u00fcrgen outside of Libau.\nSince Charles XII failed to defeat Augustus II during the Daugava operation, he decided to carry out a military campaign on Polish territory to defeat Augustus' army, and secure his own back before attacking Russia. Stenbock received a memorandum regarding the war situation and Sweden's foreign policy from Bengt Oxenstierna, who shortly before his death, entrusted Stenbock to present it to Charles XII and persuade the King to end his campaign against Augustus II and instead direct his attention towards the Russian border. However, Charles XII went his own way and, by the end of January 1702, the Swedish main army had entered the Lithuanian part of Poland. Charles XII marched against Warsaw with the bulk of his army, while Stenbock and the Dalarna Regiment were sent to Vilnius in March along with major general Carl M\u00f6rner and the \u00d6sterg\u00f6tland Cavalry Regiment. Stenbock and M\u00f6rner was tasked with hunting down the troops of Grzegorz Antoni Ogi\u0144ski and Micha\u0142 Serwacy Wi\u015bniowiecki, and with collecting contributions for the main army's maintenance. Vilnius was taken during late March, and the Swedish garrison was subsequently reinforced. During the Battle of Vilnius on 6 April the garrison was overwhelmed by Wi\u015bniowiecki's troops. However, following vicious fighting inside the city, the attackers were repelled with the loss of 100 men, while the Swedish garrison lost 50 men.\nM\u00f6rner and Stenbock were ordered to bring their 4,000 troops from Vilnius to Warsaw. The march across central Poland was obstructed by skirmishes against Wi\u015bniowiecki's troops and wide rivers. On several occasions Stenbock used his engineering skills to build bridges, and the Dalarna Regiment served as sappers both in Stenbock's and Charles XII's marches. In July 1702 Charles XII and his main army caught up with Augustus II at the village of Klisz\u00f3w, northeast of Krak\u00f3w. M\u00f6rner and Stenbock reunited with the main army on the evening of 8 July. On the following morning Charles XII attacked Augustus II's Saxon and Polish troops. Stenbock was stationed with the infantry on the center of the first line of attack, under the command of lieutenant general Bernhard von Liewen. When Saxon and Polish cavalry attacked the Swedish left wing, Charles XII reinforced it with some cavalry squadrons and with Stenbock and the Dalarna Regiment. The cavalry attack was repulsed, and the Swedish main forces advanced into the Saxon camp, took control of the Saxon artillery, and threatened to encircle the Saxon center. Augustus II was forced to retreat, and lost about 4,000 men, while the Swedish losses were estimated at 1,100. Later, Stenbock recalled the battle as the most difficult he had ever experienced.\nAfter the battle of Klisz\u00f3w, Charles XII spread his troops around Krak\u00f3w to cut off Augustus II's line of retreat. But since Augustus II was already far away from the area, Charles XII decided to take Krak\u00f3w. He sent Stenbock with a contingent of dalcarlians and cavalry units from the Sm\u00e5land Cavalry Regiment to scout the city, and ordered Stenbock to persuade its commandant, starost Franciszek Wielopolski, to open the city gates. During Stenbock's advance on 1 August, his troops were bombarded by cannon from the city walls, killing six of his cavalry. A squad managed to reach the city gate, and Stenbock negotiated with Wielopolski, who refused to give up Krak\u00f3w. Charles XII arrived with a contingent of Life Guards. After a short battle, Charles XII and Stenbock broke into the city, killing its sentries, and captured Wielopolski.\nAs a token of appreciation, Stenbock was appointed Commandant of Krak\u00f3w. He was commissioned to collect a contribution of 60,000 riksdaler from its citizens. In two days Stenbock's patrols collected the entire amount, including large amounts of cattle and grain. Pleased with his effort, Charles XII donated 4,000 riksdaler from the contribution to Stenbock as a personal gift and assigned him the role of \"le Diable de la Ville\" (the Devil of the city). Stenbock was installed at the Wawel Castle and became the highest Swedish representative in Krak\u00f3w. During his stay, Stenbock maintained a fitting banquet for the King, his generals and foreign envoys, and sent regular deliveries of spoils and gifts back to his wife in Stockholm.\nDirector of the General War Commissariat.\nOn 18 August 1702 Stenbock was appointed to succeed Anders Lagercrona as director of the newly established General War Commissariat, and became responsible for the main army's food supply. With the help of war commissary J\u00f6ran Adlersteen, Stenbock decentralized the maintenance of the Swedish troops by appointing a commissary to each regiment, to monitor and record the collection of supplies. On 19 October Stenbock was ordered to personally command a contingent of 3,000 men to Galicia southeast of Krak\u00f3w. His task was to collect substantial contributions, and to force the local magnate Hieronim Augustyn Lubomirski and other Polish nobles to renounce their allegiance to Augustus. He sent war commissars with proclamations about his collection to the villages and cities around Galicia, but when several commissars returned empty handed, Stenbock took severe measures. On 28 October he set an example by burning down the city of Pilzno. Between November and December the villages of D\u0119bica, Wysoka, Wesola and Dub were burned on Stenbock's orders, acknowledged by Charles XII in their letter correspondence. In December Stenbock executed an expedition south to Krosno, but he soon returned to Reschow and travelled on to Jaros\u0142aw. In January 1703, he continued across Oleszyce and Uhniv to Belz, and in February he passed Tyszowce and arrived at the fortified city of Zamo\u015b\u0107. Since he lacked troops and siege artillery to attack the city, he continued to Che\u0142m and rejoined the main army in Warsaw on 28 February. From Galicia, Stenbock collected over 300,000 riksdaler, including seventy wagons loaded with grain, slaughtered cattle and clothes. Stenbock filled his own coffers with church silver, which he sent with personal greetings to churches and friends in Sweden. Stenbock's expedition led to a strong anti-Swedish sentiment amongst the Galician nobility, a mood which over the years continued to grow throughout Poland.\nOn 21 April 1703 Stenbock participated, along with Charles XII, in the Battle of Pu\u0142tusk against the Saxon Field Marshal Adam Heinrich von Steinau. On May of that year, Charles XII laid siege to Thorn on the Weichsel river. Since he lacked siege artillery, Charles XII ordered cannons and equipment from Riga and Stockholm, which had to pass through Danzig at the mouth of the Weichsel. Stenbock was sent incognito to Danzig to negotiate with the city's magistrate free passage for the Swedish transport vessels. At the end of July the transport fleet from Riga arrived at Danzig with 4,000 Swedish and Finnish recruits. Even though Stenbock was granted a contribution of 100,000 riksdaler, the city refused to open its harbor barriers for the Swedish vessels and Stenbock was forced to transport the siege artillery by land. He arrived at the Swedish field camp at Thorn with the artillery at the end of August. The city was bombarded during the autumn and, on 3 October, the city's garrison surrendered to Charles XII. In December a new conflict with Danzig was triggered by Stenbock attempting to recruit troops around the area, even though freedom from enlistment was one of Danzig's privileges. However, Charles XII demanded that recruitment must be allowed, and the city submitted to his demands in January 1704. Subsequently, the King further demanded a refund of 15,000 silver marks which the exiled Charles VIII of Sweden offered to the city nearly 250 years earlier in return for fishing revenue from Putzig. Members of the Gyllenstierna family had already presented the demands as heirs to Charles VIII the previous year, and Stenbock and the King returned to Danzig to press Gyllenstierna's demands. Eventually the city relented and paid 136,000 riksdaler in exchange for a letter of safe conduct from Charles XII.\nIn 1704 Stenbock was commissioned to set up his own dragoon regiment of 600 men, which was expanded to 1,000 men in 1707. At the end of August 1704 Stenbock accompanied the King during the occupation and plundering of Lemberg in southeast Poland. During Charles XII's continued campaign against Augustus II, Stenbock commanded the King's vanguard, comprising the Dalarna Regiment and other regiments. He was also tasked with collecting contributions and establishing supply depots. On the way to Warsaw, he burned down the city of Krasnystaw. The main army overwintered around Rawicz near the border of Silesia, where Stenbock was responsible for accommodation and provisioning. On 4 November Stenbock was promoted to lieutenant general of infantry, which he regarded as an important acknowledgment. On 15 November Stenbock's mother Christina Catharina died and he inherited Vapn\u00f6 Castle.\nDuring the winter months between 1705 and 1706, Stenbock accompanied Charles XII and the main army in the blockade of Grodno in Polish Livonia, which was occupied by a Russian army under the command of Georg Benedict von Ogilvy. In August 1706, Stenbock marched with Charles XII and the main army into Saxony for a final resolution with Augustus II. On 14 September the treaty of Altranst\u00e4dt was signed. Augustus II was forced to break all ties with his allies, renounce his claims to the Polish crown, and accept Stanis\u0142aw I Leszczy\u0144ski as the new King. The Swedish army stayed in Saxony for a year, where Charles XII prepared and mobilized his army to go east and fight against Russia, though this time without Stenbock. Earlier in July Stenbock had been promoted to general of infantry and had succeeded Carl Gustav Rehnski\u00f6ld as Governor-General of Scania on 25 December 1705. In April 1707 he held his last audience with Charles XII; on his way home to Sweden he visited the health resort of Karlsbad in Bohemia to treat his kidney stone disease.\nGovernor-General of Scania.\nOn 4 June 1707, Stenbock arrived in Malm\u00f6 and reunited with his family at R\u00e5n\u00e4s Manor, which his wife acquired in 1704. He entered the governor's post on 18 September. At that time, the province was severely crisis-ridden, partly because it was close to Denmark and was depleted of able-bodied men throughout the war, and partly because of administrative mismanagement. Stenbock's predecessor, Rehnski\u00f6ld, had remained outside of the province since the outbreak of the war in 1700, and hence Scania's administration had passed over to the deputy-governor, Axel von Faltzburg. von Faltzburg was considered an invisible leader due to his weakness, corruption and disinterest, so administrative responsibilities were distributed between various bailiffs and officials, who spent their time in turf wars, despoilments and arbitrary exercises of power, which angered the Scanian peasantry.\nStenbock's first act was to inspect the provincial office reports, where he discovered that the financial accounting was in disarray and that the urbaria had not been updated for over 20 years. He replaced von Faltzburg with his own family companion and accountant, Peter Malmberg. In October and November 1707 Stenbock undertook an extended inspection tour across Scania, to obtain fresh recruits and form an opinion of the situation in the province. He was told that the peasants were pressured to pay unreasonably high taxes by the officials, whose ruthless conduct had caused over a thousand rural settlements to lay desolated. Stenbock reported on the situation to the Privy Council in Stockholm, suggesting that a state commission of inquiry should be assigned in Scania to investigate accusations of corruption. The Privy Council approved his proposal in February 1708, which resulted in several corrupt officials being discharged and arrested. In addition to his work within the commission of inquiry, which occupied much of his time, Stenbock combated shifting sand afflicting coastal farms, erected milestones on the royal highways, planted trees to resolve the growing shortage of wood, and hired land surveyors for the necessary provincial measurement.\nStenbock spent his time with his family in various properties and estates: in the governor's residence in Malm\u00f6 which was used for representation; in the crown's property of B\u00f6rringe in Scania; in R\u00e5n\u00e4s, where the couple controlled a huge farm and built a new mansion; and in Vapn\u00f6, where Stenbock spent his time with artistic activities and his wife took care of the daily operation of the estate and its stud farm, and established a wallpaper printing house where they produced wallpaper for sale. The couple congregated with Scanian landlords during dinners and hunting parties. Stenbock visited the mineral spa in the village of Raml\u00f6sa, which was inaugurated as a health resort on 17 June 1707 by the provincial physician of Scania, Johan Jacob D\u00f6belius. Since the source of the well, according to D\u00f6belius, had a medicinal effect, Stenbock saw a personal incentive to support it, since he suffered from kidney stone disease. Stenbock supported ground clearance around the spa and its decoration.\nOn the late summer of 1709, Stenbock received recurring reports from Envoy Anders Leijonkloo regarding a rapid increase of Danish military activity in Copenhagen, with Danish warships being loaded with troops and supplies. These signs suggested that the Danes were preparing for an invasion.\nWar in Sk\u00e5neland.\nNews of the disastrous defeat of Charles XII at the hands of Peter I and his army at the battle of Poltava in Ukraine, on 28 June 1709, spread across the Swedish empire throughout that summer. Charles XII escaped across the border to the Ottoman Empire, accompanied by roughly 1,000 men, but the remnants of his army surrendered at the village of Perevolochna near the Dnieper river. The defeats at Poltava and Perevolochna resulted in the deaths of 7,000 Swedish soldiers and the capture of 23,000 soldiers and non-combatants. With the Swedish main army destroyed, Denmark and Saxony returned to the war, forming a new coalition against Sweden. Saxon troops entered Poland to recapture the royal crown of Augustus II, whilst Danish-Norwegian troops under Frederick IV invaded Scania and Bohusl\u00e4n.\nAfter receiving Leijonkloo's reports of Danish rearmament, Stenbock summoned a meeting with several dignitaries from Malm\u00f6. He urged that the city's defenses must be strengthened and food and reinforcements acquired in preparation for a siege, since Malm\u00f6 formed a strategic key point for the dominion of Scania and the defense of the Swedish mainland. Landskrona was also in need of reinforcement, and Stenbock appealed that a provisional fortress should be built in Kristianstad to prevent the Danes from moving into Blekinge. However, the fortifications of Helsingborg were dilapidated to the extent that the city was deemed impossible to defend. The coastal guard was reinforced, and beacons were erected at Barseb\u00e4ck, R\u00e5\u00e5 and other exposed stretches along the \u00d6resund coast, where Stenbock expected the Danes would land. Apart from the fortress garrisons, Stenbock had only a few regiments at his disposal, and most of their men were poorly equipped. On 22 August Stenbock reported the Danish threat to the Defense Commission. The commission agreed to send three cavalry regiments from V\u00e4sterg\u00f6tland to Scania's defense, and in October, they reassembled both the Northern and Southern Scanian cavalry regiments, who previously been wiped out at Poltava. Stenbock himself mustered 3,000 fresh troops. In September he issued a general declaration calling the people of Scania to fidelity to the Swedish King, to prevent pro-Danish guerrilla organization and collaboration. On 27 September 1709, Stenbock made an inspired speech to the citizens of Malm\u00f6, dispelling their concerns about the loss at Poltava and reminding them of their duty to their King and fatherland. Addressing the people of Scania as brethren, he was prepared to die by their side.\nDanish campaign in Scania and Blekinge.\nThe Privy Council in Stockholm received the Danish declaration of war on 18 October. By then the fortifications along the \u00d6resund coast had been made moderately defensible, especially in Malm\u00f6 where the garrison had been expanded to 3,550 men. Three cavalry regiments were positioned along the \u00d6resund coast under Colonel G\u00f6ran Gyllenstierna's command, and both Malm\u00f6 and Landskrona had enough ammunition and supplies to withstand a six-month siege. On 31 October more than 250 transport vessels sailed from Copenhagen, escorted by 12 warships led by Admiral Ulrik Christian Gyldenl\u00f8ve. The Danish invasion army consisted of 15,000 men with Christian Ditlev Reventlow as commanding general. Stenbock discovered the fleet from Malm\u00f6 Castle on 1 November, and a signal shot from Landskrona reported that the Danish armada had anchored at R\u00e5\u00e5. The cavalry regiments marched towards the site and positioned themselves at the villages of Raus, Katsl\u00f6sa and Rya; Stenbock establishing his headquarters at the latter. Upon discovering elite Danish troops at R\u00e5\u00e5, covered by Danish warships, Stenbock decided to retreat to the southeast, destroying all the bridges along the way. By 5 November the invasion army was in full force, and took Helsingborg without resistance.\nIn November the Danes occupied central Scania and established supply routes from \u00c4ngelholm to Ringsj\u00f6n. At the end of November, Malm\u00f6 was blockaded by a Danish contingent of 2,000 men, while Landskrona was encircled in early December. Since the Danes lacked siege artillery, their plan was to starve out the Swedish garrisons. Stenbock was ordered by the Defense Commission to leave Malm\u00f6 on 9 December to take command of a newly organized Swedish field army, which would march south towards the assembly point at Loshult. The defense of Malm\u00f6 was handed over to major general Carl Gustaf Skytte and Stenbock left the city on 1 December escorted by a small company. On 7 December he established his headquarters in Kristianstad. Due to problems with supply chains, Stenbock wanted to carry out a rapid campaign to prevent the Danes from establishing a safe base of operations in southern Sweden, but he was ordered by the Defense Commission to hold his positions in northern Scania before the arrival of the Swedish field army. On 3 January 1710 Reventlow began his march towards Kristianstad with a contingent of 6,000 men and eight guns, under orders from Frederick IV to capture Karlskrona and burn the Swedish battle fleet. On Epiphany, Stenbock was briefed of this and ordered his troops from Kristianstad to transport army supplies to Karlshamn and to various villages in Sm\u00e5land. While he organized defenses in Karlshamn with General admiral Hans Wachtmeister and the governors of Blekinge and Kronoberg counties, he handed over the command of the troops to G\u00f6ran Gyllenstierna, who positioned the troops at fords and strategic points along the Helge River. The position at Torsebro was attacked by Danish troops on 13 January. Gyllenstierna was forced to retreat, and his rearguard fought against Danish cavalry units at Fj\u00e4lkinge. After the battle, about 60 Swedes were killed and an entire battalion from the Saxon infantry regiment was captured. Eastern Scania and several Swedish food stores ended up in Danish hands.\nStenbock gathered his remaining troops and established his headquarters in M\u00f6rrum. There he received permission from the Defense Commission to organize levy recruits on 17 January, and received free rein to attack when the opportunity was favorable. The troops gathered in Ronneby on 18 January, whence the infantry was sent to Karlskrona's defense. Gyllenstierna was assigned a cavalry contingent and was ordered to destroy bridges and obstruct Danish movements in Blekinge. On 20 January Stenbock went to V\u00e4xj\u00f6 to assemble the field army, since Loshult was considered an insecure assembly point. On 19 January, Reventlow entered Blekinge and conquered Karlshamn, seizing supplies and 12,000 riksdaler from its citizens. The Danes withdrew on 24 January and established winter quarters from \u00c4ngelholm to S\u00f6lvesborg. On 21 January, Stenbock arrived in V\u00e4xj\u00f6, where he met with lieutenant general Jacob Burensk\u00f6ld, some companies from \u00d6sterg\u00f6tland Infantry Regiment, and 150 levies from Sm\u00e5land. Reinforcements arrived in stages during the next few days, consisting of the newly assembled Uppland, Kronoberg, J\u00f6nk\u00f6ping, Kalmar, and \u00d6sterg\u00f6tland and S\u00f6dermanland infantry regiments, as well as Adelsfanan, Horse Life Regiment, Sm\u00e5land and \u00d6sterg\u00f6tland cavalry regiments. The army was well-equipped but was short of swords and several soldiers lacked basic uniforms. On 31 January, Stenbock broke camp and a few days later his army encamped at Osby. On 8 February, major general Christian Ludvig von Ascheberg joined the army along with the \u00c4lvsborg Regiment, Saxon Infantry Regiment and Queen Dowager of the Realm's Horse Life Regiment, as well as bringing field guns and several ammunition wagons. On 11 February, Gyllenstierna arrived with his three cavalry regiments from Blekinge. Stenbock was now in command of 19 regiments and about 16,000 men.\nSwedish counteroffensive and the Battle of Helsingborg.\nOn 12 February, the army broke camp at Osby and marched south. The same day Swedish troops met with a Danish reconnaissance patrol of 200 cavalry units under lieutenant general J\u00f8rgen Rantzau in the forests of H\u00e4stveda. After a short and confused battle, the Danes withdrew with the loss of forty soldiers, while the Swedes lost between three and ten. When Reventlow was informed, he decided to retreat with his troops to V\u00e4 and later to Skarhult. Stenbock's movements were a diversion, as he had divided his field army into two columns that marched towards H\u00e4stveda and Glimminge, to trick Reventlow by threatening his headquarters in Kristianstad and force him to retreat to Helsingborg. Reventlow, however, marched south to Barseb\u00e4ck, where the Danes had a good retreat route across the strait and could continue their encirclement of Malm\u00f6 and control the southern plains of Scania. During a night-time reconnaissance at Ringsj\u00f6n, Reventlow caught a severe cold and high fever, and he appointed lieutenant general Rantzau as his deputy on 17 February.\nOn 18 February, Stenbock crossed the River R\u00f6nne at Forestad and Hasslebro. At Trollen\u00e4s Castle, the Uppland cavalry regiment encountered 300 Danish dragoons, who withdrew after a short battle. The next day, Rantzau positioned his army at Rosl\u00f6v north of Flyinge, and ordered the troops besieging Malm\u00f6 to withdraw immediately. After an emergency meeting with his generals on 19 February, Rantzau ordered his troops to return to Helsingborg. When Stenbock was informed that the Danes had passed Stora Harrie, he decided to pursue them and divided his army into five columns. On 20 February, Stenbock's cavalry encountered the Danish rearguard at Asmundtorp, but Stenbock called them off and withdrew to Annel\u00f6v and Norrvidinge, since the cover of darkness and Danish shelling halted the Swedish advance. Stenbock himself galloped to Malm\u00f6 to resupply, and on 24 February he returned to the army with food, reinforcements and 24 artillery pieces. He was informed that the Danes had made battle preparations at Helsingborg and, following a council of war with the high command, Stenbock decided to seek a confrontation with the Danes. His troops decamped from Norrvidinge on 26 February and made an evasive movement towards the heights north of Helsingborg, setting up camp at Fleninge Church the following day. Stenbock established his headquarters in Hj\u00e4lmshults kungsg\u00e5rd a few kilometers west. The troops prepared to march at midnight and carried out an evasive movement south through \u00d6d\u00e5kra and Pilshult.\nOn the morning of 28 February Rantzau and the Danish army of 14,000 men and 32 guns were positioned on a front which stretched north to south from P\u00e5lsj\u00f6 forest and the Ringstorp Height to Husensj\u00f6. The troops were protected by impassable semi-frozen marshlands. Stenbock's army of 14,000 men and 36 guns was formed in a line between Sender\u00f6d and Brohuset. To get past the marshlands, Stenbock made a very time-consuming maneuver that finally placed the Swedish left wing between Brohuset and Filborna. Stenbock's maneuver succeeded in causing the Danes to leave their favorable position to avoid encirclement. Rantzau ordered the Danish right wing to advance, which started a furious cavalry fight. The Swedish cavalry suffered heavy casualties, but since the Danish right wing advanced too quickly, the Danish infantry and artillery fell behind. When they subsequently formed a new line of attack, confusion arose among the ranks, and Stenbock discovered a gap between the Danish right wing and center. He ordered an attack against the Danish center, and after heavy resistance the Danish line fell apart. During the battle's final stages, the Danes fled to Helsingborg's fortifications with Swedish cavalry units in pursuit. After three hours of battle, Danish losses amounted to 1,500 dead, 3,500 wounded and 2,700 prisoners. Among Stenbock's troops, 900 were dead and 2,100 were wounded. Lieutenant general Burensk\u00f6ld was captured but was exchanged a few weeks later, and Stenbock injured his back when he fell from his horse in a swamp.\nThe Danes entrenched themselves in Helsingborg and transported the wounded soldiers, together with the city's women and children, to Helsing\u00f8r. Rantzau handed over command to major general Frantz Joachim von Dewitz. Stenbock refrained from storming the city and on 1 March he installed a battery at P\u00e5lsj\u00f6 beach, which bombarded Danish ship traffic. On 3 March, Stenbock began the bombardment of Helsingborg, destroying much of the city. Frederick IV ordered von Dewitz to evacuate the city immediately and transport the troops to Zealand, and the Danish evacuation began the following day under intense Swedish artillery fire. The Danes burned their carriages, threw away their food stores and slaughtered thousands of horses which they left in the streets, basements and wells of the city. On 5 March, von Dewitz was the last Dane to leave Scania on a boat. At the entrance of the reclaimed city, Stenbock was forced to command farmers to dispose of the horse carcasses, which were buried in mass graves or dumped in the sea. Stenbock left the city on 9 March and reunited with his family in Malm\u00f6.\nAfter Stenbock's victory at Helsingborg, a heroic cult began to grow around him in the Swedish empire. He received personal congratulations from the Queen Dowager Hedvig Eleonora, Princess Ulrika Eleonora, Duke Charles Frederick of Holstein-Gottorp, King Stanis\u0142aw Leszczy\u0144ski and the Duke of Marlborough. Stenbock's victory was celebrated with tributes and artistic works, and a general thanksgiving ceremony was held on 18 March, where Stenbock's name was praised. In April, Stenbock traveled to Stockholm to inform the Privy Council about the new strategic situation. On arrival, he was hailed by the citizens of Stockholm and he held several victory speeches before the clergy and peasant estates. The Riksdag of the Estates offered him the B\u00e5\u00e5tska palace, and on 21 May the Privy council appointed him field marshal, sending the letter of appointment to Charles XII in Bender for the King's signature.\nPlague outbreak.\nStenbock's field army garrisoned in the Scanian cities and villages, to defend against Danish marines, who looted the coastal villages between Kullen and Barseb\u00e4ck during the spring. In the summer of 1710 Sweden had a bad harvest, and starving soldiers in Scania were forced to steal food from the peasants. Stenbock could not maintain their discipline and demanded food deliveries from other parts of the Kingdom. At the same time, he received news from Stockholm and Blekinge about strange deaths. On 10 September the Privy Council sent a message to all governors that Stockholm was suffering from a severe infection that was killing people by the hundreds. The Collegium Medicum determined that the epidemic in Stockholm was the bubonic plague, that had ravaged the southern and eastern coasts of the Baltic Sea since autumn 1708. These signs forced Stenbock to isolate the entire Scanian region to keep the epidemic at bay. On 28 October armed barricades were placed on the major highways to Scania from Halland, Sm\u00e5land and Blekinge, and sentries were posted at Margretetorp, Markaryd and Kivik. Smoking stations were erected at the barricades and travelers to Scania were forced to present a valid bill of health and to allow their belongings to be fumigated with cleansing herbs before they could enter. Letters from postal offices were also fumigated. Between 1710 and 1713, 100,000 people in Sweden succumbed to the plague, of which 20,000 were in Stockholm. Thousands of people died in Scania, mainly in G\u00f6inge and the northeastern parts of the region, while neighboring villages were free from plague-related deaths.\nRoyal Councillor.\nIn February 1711 Stenbock received a royal order from Charles XII to resign from his governor post and install himself in Stockholm as Royal Councillor and member of the Privy Council. His letter of appointment as field marshal was omitted and Burensk\u00f6ld was appointed as the new governor. Stenbock regarded this as an insulting downgrade, partly because, due to the Kingdom's poor economic state, he would now receive an uncertain salary as royal councillor compared to his stable income and benefits as Scanian governor, and partly because, unlike his subordinate generals, he was not promoted after the victory at Helsingborg. However, Stenbock would still be responsible for Scania's border defense, and received a royal order to build fortifications outside Barseb\u00e4ck, H\u00f6gan\u00e4s and M\u00f6lle, as well as a mound at R\u00e5\u00e5. Between 1711 and 1712 Stenbock was appointed chancellor of Lund University.\nIn Bender, Charles XII made revenge plans against Russia, and convinced the Ottoman government in the Sublime Porte to ally with Sweden. He gave orders to the Privy Council to send a field army to Pomerania, which would enter Poland from the west, while Charles XII would march from the south in command of an Ottoman army. The united armies would once again dethrone Augustus II, march against Moscow, and force Denmark to an unfavorable peace treaty. Council President Arvid Horn and Field Marshal Nils Gyllenstierna opposed the King's plans and, in spring 1710 ratified a declaration of neutrality with the Western powers of Europe in The Hague, favoring the Swedish dominions in Germany. Since Charles XII regarded Horn as unreliable, he entrusted Stenbock with putting together and overseeing a new field army. In his first council session in April 1711 Stenbock pleaded for the King's order, which was criticized by Horn and several other council members. Stenbock was supported in this matter by Hans Wachtmeister and Stanis\u0142aw Leszczy\u0144ski, who had sought protection in Swedish Pomerania, and was granted an annual appanage by the King, a decision which angered the council. When Denmark, Russia and Saxony learned of Charles XII's dismissive attitude towards the declaration of neutrality, a Danish army of 30,000 men entered Pomerania through Mecklenburg in August 1711, while Saxon troops marched from the south. Frederick IV and Augustus II converged outside of Stralsund, to which they later laid siege. King Stanis\u0142aw traveled to Sweden, met with Stenbock in Kristianstad, and went to the Privy Council to ask for reinforcements.\nThe Privy Council agreed to send four infantry regiments of 4,000 men to Stralsund's defense. With the council's approval, Stenbock traveled to Karlskrona in October to assist Wachtmeister with the preparations and execution of the troop transport. The transport fleet sailed on 24 November and a few days later the troops were debarked at Perd on the island of R\u00fcgen. Stralsund's commandant, lieutenant general Carl Gustaf D\u00fccker, regarded these reinforcements as less than he had hoped for, since he was informed that the Danes and the Saxons would carry out a major offensive the following year. Stenbock returned to Karlskrona in early December, and at Christmas received a royal order to guard the Swedish west coast, while lieutenant general Gustaf Adam Taube would lead Scania's defense in Stenbock's absence.\nOrder of mobilization.\nIn Gothenburg, on 19 May 1712, Stenbock received a new order from Charles XII, this time that he would immediately transport a field army to Pomerania. He was authorized to carry out the transport independently of the Privy Council. He would also submit to King Stanis\u0142aw Leszczy\u0144ski and consult with Mauritz Vellingk, who was now governor of Bremen-Verden and commanding general of the Swedish troops in Germany. Stenbock and King Stanis\u0142aw were to organize the transport in consultation with Wachtmeister and the Admiralty in Karlskrona.\nIn mid-June 1712 Stenbock spoke with King Stanis\u0142aw and the council members Horn and Gyllenstierna in Vadstena, where he presented the financial requirements from Karlskrona for a contribution of 200,000 daler silver coins and 1,500 experienced sailors. Horn and Gyllenstierna were able to obtain only a quarter of the requested amount, citing the Kingdom's general distress and shortage of funds. Stenbock accompanied them to Stockholm and together with Gustaf Cronhielm, Stenbock spoke with the head of the Agency for Public Management to find out about the Kingdom's financial situation. Together they set up a financing proposal that would address the population with appeals for money loans, mainly from the wealthier subjects. Throughout July, Stenbock undertook his borrowing campaign by sending letters to the Swedish governors and magistrates, and holding speeches and banquets in Stockholm. He appealed to the bourgeoisie for money and cargo vessels to bring the King back to Sweden, as well as to improve the badly damaged Swedish foreign trade. In a short time, Stenbock and his helpers collected 400,000 daler and a loan of nine double-decked bulk carriers. With this contribution, the Swedish high command was able to send decampment orders to the regiments, purchase grain, muster sailors and assemble a transport fleet in Karlskrona at the end of July, while the war fleet was made combat-ready.\nStenbock left Stockholm and spent a week in Vapn\u00f6 to say goodbye to his family. In August, Wachtmeister sailed with a fleet of 27 warships from Karlskrona. Stenbock joined the transport fleet at anchor in Karlshamn on 23 August, and set sail for R\u00fcgen. The following day, Wachtmeister chased off a Danish fleet led by Admiral Gyldenl\u00f8ve, who retreated to Copenhagen, while Wachtmeister dropped anchor in K\u00f8ge Bugt.\nCampaign in Northern Germany.\nOn 25 August Stenbock landed at Wittow on the north coast of R\u00fcgen and toured for the next few days between Stralsund and various places on R\u00fcgen. On 14 September the rest of the transport fleet anchored at Wittow, and two days later, 9,500 men and twenty guns disembarked from the ships. Most of the troops were accommodated on R\u00fcgen, while some were sent to Stralsund. On the night between 18 and 19 September, the transport fleet that was anchored at Langkenhoff suffered a surprise attack from Gyldenl\u00f8ve's fleet, who bypassed Wachtmeister's battle fleet. Over 50 Swedish transport ships were lost during the attack, half of which were captured by the Danes, and most of the winter storages were lost.\nThe loss of the transport fleet was a major logistical problem for Stenbock and the Swedish troops in Germany. Stenbock sent a message to the Privy Council to send a new transport fleet with fresh winter supplies and 4,000 cavalry units that had not yet been transported from Sweden. Meanwhile, Stenbock was ordered by King Stanis\u0142aw to begin secret negotiations with the Saxon Field Marshal Jacob Heinrich von Flemming to investigate the possibility of a separate peace with King Augustus II. The meeting took place on 11 October in P\u00fctte, west of Stralsund, where Stenbock, together with major generals Georg Reinhold Patkul and Fredrik von Mevius, negotiated with Flemming and his companions, the Russian Master-General of the Ordnance Jacob Bruce and the Danish colonels Bendix Meyer and Poul Vendelbo L\u00f8ven\u00f8rn. Because Flemming rejected King Stanis\u0142aw's demands regarding Lithuania the negotiations were inconclusive. Stenbock held a council of war with his generals and colonels to decide by which route they should march. Since the road to Poland was devastated and blocked by between 20,000 and 30,000 Russian and Saxon troops, Stenbock decided to go west to Mecklenburg where the troops could establish reliable supply lines.\nOn 1 November, 16,000 men marched out of Stralsund under Stenbock's direct command. They moved parallel to the enemy lines, which were concentrated south of Stralsund. They crossed the Recknitz river at Damgarten on 4 November, and entered Rostock without a fight ten days later. Stenbock set up headquarters in Schwaan, south of Rostock, and established communications with Wismar. In Mecklenburg, the contribution collection commenced under the command of General War Commissar Peter Malmberg, and the Swedes confiscated significant quantities of food, wagons and horses. At the same time, Danish troops remained around Hamburg and Danish Holstein, while Saxon and Russian troops advanced from the east. On 5 November Stenbock and King Stanis\u0142aw negotiated with Flemming. Stanis\u0142aw announced his thoughts on giving up the Polish crown, which created opportunities for an armistice. On 24 November Stenbock was ordered by King Stanis\u0142aw to discuss a three-month armistice with the enemy alliance. The negotiations, between Stenbock and major general Carl Gustaf Mellin on one side and Flemming, the Russian commander Prince Alexander Menshikov and Colonels Meyer and L\u00f8ven\u00f8rn on the other, took place a few days later in L\u00fcssow. Stenbock was also given the opportunity to discuss directly with Augustus II, who was not a participant at the talks, but as a guest of the widowed duchess Magdalena Sibylla in G\u00fcstrow. The parties agreed to a two-week ceasefire, starting on 1 December, which allowed the Swedes to collect food reserves and gave them more time to assemble a new transport fleet. On 29 November, King Stanis\u0142aw departed towards Bender to inform Charles XII about the negotiations. Stenbock remained in Wismar for two weeks due to severe colic attacks. He was informed that a transport fleet under Admiral Gustaf Wattrang had assembled in Karlskrona and tried to sail to Wismar, but due to frequent storms, the fleet failed three times.\nBattle of Gadebusch.\nAt the end of the truce, Stenbock was informed that a large Danish army had broken into Mecklenburg from the west and attacked Malmberg's supply troops. To prevent the Danes from joining the other allies, Stenbock decided to prepare his army to march. On 15 December, the Swedes destroyed the bridges across the Warnow river, securing the army's rear and flanks, and the army moved west the following morning. Two days later, they stopped at Karow, where Stenbock was informed that the Danes encamped at Gadebusch and that Saxon cavalry regiments were about to join them. 16,000 Danish troops had set up camp outside Gadebusch's walls under the command of lieutenant general Jobst von Scholten, while King Frederick IV established headquarters in the city's castle. On 18 December Stenbock marched against Gadebusch and divided his army into columns. He camped at the L\u00fctken Br\u00fctz mansion, east of Gadebusch, on 19 December, where his troops were discovered by Scholten's reconnaissance units after midnight. At daybreak the Danish and Swedish troops prepared for combat.\nOn the morning of 20 December, the Danes took up defensive positions at Wakenst\u00e4dt, south of Gadebusch, in anticipation of a Swedish attack. In the meantime Flemming arrived with Saxon reinforcements. A total of 16,000 Danes and 3,500 Saxons stood before Stenbock's army, which numbered about 14,000. At the advice of the artillery commander Carl Cronstedt, Stenbock let his artillery play an important role in the battle. It was placed in front of the infantry under the protection of one infantry battalion. At from the enemy ranks, the Swedish guns bombarded the Danish line; then they were pulled forward with horses and a new bombardment started. At the beginning of the battle, the Swedish cavalry on the right wing surrounded the Danish cavalry on the left wing. The Danes began to flee backwards, but when they received Saxon reinforcements, the Swedish advance was stopped. The breakthrough left the Danish infantry on the left unprotected. The Swedish infantry advanced in columns and, only when in the immediate vicinity of the enemy, formed a line and opened fire. The Swedish infantry was successful, especially on the right where they penetrated the unprotected Danish cavalry. The Danish infantry sustained heavy losses, but through Saxon reinforcements, the Danish right wing managed to repel the Swedish attacks. The battle faded during dusk and the remaining Danish and Saxon troops withdrew to Holstein. The Swedish cavalry were too exhausted to pursue them. Danish losses amounted to 2,500 dead and injured, while the Saxon losses were between 700 and 900 killed and injured. In addition, 2,500 Danes and 100 Saxons were taken prisoners. Swedish losses came to 550 killed and 1,000 injured.\nThe exhausted Swedish troops were quartered at various locations between Gadebusch and Wismar, while Stenbock went to Wismar with his prisoners and wounded soldiers. Stenbock's victory was celebrated across Sweden, and he received letters of congratulations from the Queen Dowager and Princess of Sweden, Duke Frederick William of Mecklenburg-Schwerin and King Frederick Wilhelm I of Prussia. In addition, King Louis XIV mentioned Stenbock in his New Year's speech before his court in Versailles, and Charles XII ratified Stenbock's appointment as Field Marshal. The letter of appointment was issued in January 1713 and arrived with Stenbock in July the same year.\nBurning of Altona.\nOn 30 December, Stenbock marched across the Trave river into Holstein, to support his troops from there. From his headquarters in Schwartau, he sent proclamations regarding contributions to both the Danish and Ducal parts of Holstein, as well as to the Hanseatic City of L\u00fcbeck. He sent orders to Governor General Mauritz Vellingk requesting large quantities of clothing for his troops. Vellingk was posted in Hamburg since September 1712, following the occupation of Stade and Bremen-Verden by Danish troops. As Vellingk wanted to avenge the Danes for their destruction of Stade, he advised Stenbock to march into the Danish part of Holstein to destroy the Danish city of Altona on the Elbe river. On 7 January 1713 Stenbock established his headquarters in Pinneberg, north of Hamburg, while Colonels Ulrich Carl von Bassewitz and Johan Carl Str\u00f6mfelt were sent to Altona with 200 cavalry and 800 dragoon units. On the following morning Stenbock arrived in Altona and arrested the city's provisional bourgeois commission, causing the citizens to negotiate a ransom of 36,000 riksdaler. When Stenbock discussed the matter with Vellingk in Hamburg later that day, the latter argued that Altona must be burned, since the city and its large quantities of food posed a strategic interest for the Allies. Stenbock, however, argued that the city's destruction would cause retaliatory action in Swedish Pomerania and Bremen, and that he had promised the people of Holstein that they were safe if they stayed calm and paid contributions. Vellingk warned Stenbock that unless the city was set on fire, he would suffer unpleasant consequences. Stenbock returned to Altona that evening, threatening its citizens that he would burn the city to the ground if they could not give him 100,000 riksdaler before midnight. Even though Bassewitz persuaded Stenbock to reduce the ransom to 50,000 riksdaler, the citizens were unable to collect the sum in such a short time. They panicked and pleaded with Stenbock to spare their lives. Nevertheless, Stenbock left Altona and ordered Str\u00f6mfelt to burn it down.\nOn the night between 8 and 9 January the citizens of Altona were dragged out of their homes by Stromfelt's dragoons, who then ignited the houses. By the morning of 9 January Altona was transformed into a smoldering ghost town, and hundreds of the citizens died in the flames or froze to death. Only a few hundred of the city's 2,000 houses survived the fire. After the destruction, Stenbock sent a letter to government official Ditlev Vibe, stating that he found himself compelled by \"justification and an inevitable necessity\" to burn down Altona. The Allies sharply criticized Stenbock's action. He received a personal letter from Flemming and Scholten expressing their disgust. Stenbock's act of violence was difficult to defend since Altona's citizens were defenseless and of the same Lutheran-evangelical denomination as the Swedes. He now became a target of anti-Swedish propaganda and a notorious, bloodthirsty arsonist. His actions became widely known as \"der Schwedenbrand\" (the Swedish Bonfire) or \"die Schwedische Ein\u00e4scherung\" (the Swedish Cremation).\nIn mid-January Danish and Saxon troops approached Hamburg, and a Russian army under Tsar Peter I marched from Mecklenburg towards Holstein. On 18 January, Stenbock and his army crossed the Eider Canal, marched into Schleswig and set up camp in Husum. Cavalry divisions under Bassewitz and Str\u00f6mfelt were sent to Flensburg and Aabenraa. From there, they reported that the northern roads, following heavy rainfalls, were turned into mud and that the villages and farms in the surrounding area were abandoned and emptied of food and valuables. On 22 January, Stenbock held a council of war, where they agreed to occupy the Eiderstedt peninsula and establish food stores under the protection of Holstein-Gottorp's main fortress, T\u00f6nning. Following the destruction of Altona Stenbock had entered negotiations with secret envoys from Holstein-Gottorp, which was ruled by Christian August. When the duchy was threatened with destruction by Denmark and its allies, Christian August wanted to use Stenbock's army to defend it. A secret treaty, in which the Swedes were guaranteed T\u00f6nning's protection while they in return would ensure the protection of the Duchy during future peace negotiations with Denmark, was signed by Stenbock, Christian August and Geheimr\u00e4te Henrik Reventlow, Johan Claesson Ban\u00e9r, and Georg Heinrich von G\u00f6rtz.\nThe allied troops crossed the Eider Canal on 23 January, and a few days later Stenbock's troops clashed with Russian troops at the bridge of Hollingstedt between Husum and the city of Schleswig. Afterwards Stenbock marched to Eiderstedt, spread his troops around the peninsula, and built small redoubts at strategic locations. At the beginning of February, Danish and Saxon troops commenced their attack from Husum while Russian troops advanced across Friedrichstadt and Koldenb\u00fcttel. Stenbock retreated towards T\u00f6nning and lost several cannons and food stores to the Allies. The Swedish vanguard entered T\u00f6nning on 14 February, and were followed by the rest of the infantry, about 2,000 sick soldiers, and the cavalry, who camped on the plains outside the fortress. Stenbock delegated command of the army to major general Georg Reinhold Patkul and Stackelberg, and, together with the cavalry, Stenbock tried to cross the Eider Canal with boats and obtain reinforcements from Sweden. The ship transport failed due to heavy winds, and Tsar Peter moved towards the Swedish bridgehead with 10,000 Russian troops. Stenbock sounded the retreat and half of his cavalry surrendered to the Russians, while the rest slaughtered their horses and escaped to T\u00f6nning.\nSurrender at T\u00f6nning.\nInside T\u00f6nning's walls, 12,000 Swedes were crowded with soldiers and citizens from Holstein. The fortress lacked firewood, food and drinkable water. The Privy Council rejected Stenbock's cries of distress, referring to the Kingdom's critical situation. From the sea, T\u00f6nning was blocked by Danish warships, and Stenbock could not expect any help from Charles XII, since he had been informed by Vellingk that the King had been transferred to Demotika following the skirmish at Bender. The Ottomans could no longer trust Swedish arms when Stenbock, instead of breaking into Poland, chose to negotiate with the enemy. Stenbock began to feel depressed on account of his setbacks, often quarreling with the fortress Commandant Zacharias Wolf, and locked himself in his chamber. He wrote angry letters to the Privy Council and several defensive statements regarding his actions in the campaign. Afterwards, Stenbock reluctantly held an audience with Baron von G\u00f6rtz, who said that the fortress only had supplies for three months, that the allied troops had started their advance towards the fortress walls, and suggested that Stenbock consider \"an honorable capitulation\". When Stenbock's troops entered T\u00f6nning, the Danes considered the formerly neutral duchy to be a warring nation. Between 16 and 18 February Danish troops occupied the ducal parts of Schleswig, sent the duchy's troops to Rendsburg as prisoners of war, and replaced the ducal officials with Danish counterparts, while Christian August fled to Hamburg.\nBaron von G\u00f6rtz's goal was to re-establish Holstein-Gottorp as a sovereign principality, and through Flemming he received an audience with Frederick IV. G\u00f6rtz succeeded in convincing the King that Christian August was unaware of the events surrounding T\u00f6nning. After several meetings with Flemming, Vibe and other dignitaries, G\u00f6rtz received a letter promising that Holstein-Gottorp would regain its fiefs and rights if G\u00f6rtz convinced the Swedes to surrender. G\u00f6rtz returned to T\u00f6nning on 16 April. At that time, 2,000 Swedish soldiers had died inside the fortress, diseases spread, and discipline was impossible to maintain, resulting in the desertion of several soldiers. The fortress was surrounded by 30,000 allied troops, who dug trenches outside the walls and brought forth heavy siege artillery. Stenbock convened with his subordinate officers regarding a probable surrender, and the officers agreed to begin negotiations, with G\u00f6rtz acting as an intermediary. A Swedish delegation was sent to Simonsberg to negotiate with the Danish representatives, and on 21 April a Danish ultimatum was presented to the Swedish army. The ultimatum, bearing Frederick IV's signature, required the Swedes to surrender their firearms, colors and artillery. Stenbock rejected the proposal and sent back G\u00f6rtz, who claimed that he could procure a better agreement. However, Frederick IV became tired of G\u00f6rtz, and on 3 May Stenbock learned that the Danes canceled all negotiations. Shortly thereafter, a Danish colonel informed the Swedes that they had 24 hours to consider the King's ultimatum. Otherwise, the siege artillery would begin their bombardment.\nStenbock received a passport and an invitation to Oldenswort for direct negotiations with Frederick IV and the allied commanders. He headed a delegation consisting of two major generals and four colonels. The negotiations, which were held in Prince Menshikov's quarters, lasted for over a week. The final agreement still forced the Swedes to hand over their firearms, horses, artillery and colors, but they were permitted to keep their luggage and uniforms, as well as letters and documents. Transport of the troops back to Sweden would also be allowed in due course, after exchange of prisoners. T\u00f6nning would remain in the hands of the duchy, and Flemming and Menshikov assured that the siege would be lifted as soon as the Swedes exited the fortress. After a final council of war with his officers in T\u00f6nning, Stenbock was persuaded to accept the terms, and the surrender agreement was signed in Oldenwort on 16 May. Stenbock proclaimed his surrender in a letter to Charles XII. On 20 May, around 9,000 Swedish soldiers and 1,000 officers marched out of T\u00f6nning and were taken to Danish prison camps. Stenbock accompanied Frederick IV to Oldenswort as guest of honor at the King's table.\nCaptivity (1713\u20131717).\nLetter correspondence.\nDuring the captivity, General War Commissar Malmberg was responsible for prisoner exchange talks, while Stenbock paid 8,000 riksdaler out of his own pocket for the prisoners' needs. By Christmas of 1713, about half of the 10,000 Swedish prisoners had died of hunger and exhaustion, escaped, or entered Danish service. In his quarters in Flensburg, Stenbock devoted his time to his artistic interests, and wrote new defensive statements in which he blamed Vellingk, G\u00f6rtz and the Privy Council in Stockholm for his surrender. Colonel Carl Cronstedt and major general Carl Gustaf Wulfrath were sent to Sweden to carry out fundraising and assemble means of transport, and at the same time, they visited Vapn\u00f6 to give presents and letters from Stenbock to Eva and their children. In June, Wulfrath was able to transfer 100,000 riksdaler to Vellingk in Hamburg, and a smaller Swedish transport fleet was sent to \u00c5benr\u00e5. However, the sum of money was first reduced by a poor rate of exchange in Hamburg, then Vellingk used some of the money for Wismar's rearmament, on the orders of the Privy Council. The remaining amount was not enough to free the prisoners, and on 18 August Vellingk was told that the Privy Council had given up hope of procuring the prisoners' release, and that Sweden's remaining resources must be used for the defense of the kingdom's borders.\nOn 20 November, Stenbock was brought with his servants to Copenhagen and moved into the Marsvin Estate, a palace located at H\u00f8jbro Plads not far from Str\u00f8get. Four Danish grenadiers were posted outside the palace windows, and two Danish colonels were Stenbock's personal wardens. In the company of the colonels, Stenbock was able to move freely in Copenhagen, and the Danes reviewed all his letters and books. Immediately after his arrival, Stenbock began to write yet another defensive statement, this time directed at G\u00f6rtz and Frederick IV, and addressed to all \"revered brothers, loving and highly honored Swedish compatriots\". Stenbock's stay in Marsvin Estate attracted people from Copenhagen's richer circles, who wanted to see and exchange words with him, including Frederick IV's councillors Ditlev Vibe, Christian Christophersen Sehested, and Valentin von Eickstedt, as well as foreign envoys such as Prince Vasily Lukich Dolgorukov and Poussin, an envoy from France. The latter received direct orders from Versailles to assist the Swedish Crown's interests in Copenhagen. Poussin's benevolence and respect helped to make Stenbock's captivity more bearable, and from Poussin, Stenbock received rumors and gossip from Frederick IV's court. With this information, Stenbock sent letters with Poussin's seal to the Privy Council and Princess Ulrika Eleonora.\nAlongside Poussin, Stenbock made some contacts that helped him with confidential deliveries. One of these was Aron Goldzier, a merchant who supplied his home with groceries daily, and whom Stenbock used to send and receive letters unnoticed. Another contact was Johan Lyth, who owned a diner in the adjoining floor at Marsvin Estate and, through the cracks of the wall, conveyed secret mail between Lyth and Stenbock's servants. Stenbock used various pseudonyms in his letters, such as Mattias Maas, Zacharias Hinder and Catharina Hinder, and several of them were compiled in ciphered form. He exchanged several letters with Eva, who, through her network of contacts, gave Stenbock information from the Privy Council, as well as small money exchanges and gifts.\nPlanned escape.\nAfter his arrival at Marsvin Estate, Stenbock received a letter from Malmberg, in which he inquired about the opportunities to escape from captivity. Initially, Stenbock rejected a plan of escape, since a failed attempt would seriously harm his reputation. But when the prospect of a release became unrealistic, and Stenbock's surveillance tightened, he reluctantly changed his attitude. On 1 May 1714 Stenbock sent a letter to Charles XII discussing a potential escape. Shortly thereafter, he gave Malmberg approval to rent a ship to transfer him to Sweden during the summer of 1714. In L\u00fcbeck, on 5 July, Malmberg signed a formal contract with Prussian skipper Christian R\u00f6tke. The escape plan was that R\u00f6tke and his crew would sail to Copenhagen under Prussian flag to deposit a cargo of firewood from Stralsund. The skipper would then visit Stenbock, smuggle him out of his home, and put him ashore on the Scanian coast. However, Stenbock sent a letter to Malmberg on 13 July calling off the project, as he thought the plan was too risky and unclear. On 27 July, he informed Malmberg that Marsvin Estate was patrolled at night by over three guards, and that the guards strip-searched all who went in or out of the building. On the same day, he wrote a letter to the city commandant Hans Christoph von Sch\u00f6nfeldt, in which he complained about the harsh surveillance and that, as a man of honor, he was unaccustomed to seek escape. At the same time, he helped his secretary Andreas Peter Wiingren to burn the drafts of all his letters and notes from the past six months, and with Poussin's help, he smuggled sensitive documents to Hamburg.\nA few days later Stenbock received a reply from Sch\u00f6nfeldt, with a royal order to confine Stenbock into two interior rooms in Marsvin Estate and separate him from all but two of his servants. Sch\u00f6nfeldt appointed seven colonels to take turns guarding Stenbock, and the guard force was increased to ten posts. On 6 August Christian R\u00f6tke arrived in Copenhagen and explored the possibilities for Stenbock's escape. A few days later, R\u00f6tke and his crew were arrested by Danish soldiers and imprisoned at Holmen. Frederick IV was aware of Stenbock's escape plan thanks to his royal post spy, the postal inspector Christian Erlund. He had controlled Stenbock's secret correspondence and had deciphered his encrypted correspondence with Malmberg. Later, Erlund learned how to plagiarize the different cursive methods in the letters to be able to manipulate the mail to and from Marsvin Estate. Erlund was then able to tip a Danish Vice Admiral posted at Pr\u00f8vestenen about R\u00f6tke's ship, trace Stenbock's secret documents in Hamburg, and seize Stenbock's field archive, which had been placed, along with secret documents, in a coffin at the Swedish agent Herman Fock's hideout in L\u00fcbeck. The coffin was presented to Frederick IV and his councillors; it contained 45 folders of letters from, among others, Charles XII, King Stanis\u0142aw, Christian August and the ministers of the Ducal Holstein, the Swedish Privy Council, and Vellingk. The biggest find for the Danes was Stenbock's treaty with Christian August regarding the entry of the Swedish army into T\u00f6nning. As evidence, the secret agreement constituted a significant propaganda tool against Stenbock, Sweden and Holstein-Gottorp. Frederick IV presented the information to the emissaries from the Holy Roman Empire, England, The Netherlands, Prussia and Russia. When the commission of inquiry interrogated Stenbock's servants, his secretary Wiingren and the kitchen scribe Johan Anton Bon revealed that they were responsible for the encryption and security of Stenbock's letters.\nImprisonment and defamation.\nOn 17 November 1714 Stenbock was transferred in a covered wagon to Citadellet Frederikshavn, also known as Kastellet, where Commandant Jacob Peter von Bonar received him and declared that he could no longer communicate with the outside world. Stenbock was accommodated with two chamber servants in Bonar's house. The dwelling had a tiled stove and Stenbock received four to five daily meals with wine and bread from the Commandant's kitchen. Upon arriving at Kastellet, Stenbock immediately begun a new petition to Frederick IV, wherein he accused Malmberg of producing the escape plan and denied that it was his intention to escape. On 20 November the petition was sent to the king at Christiansborg Palace. At the same time, Stenbock completed two secret letters addressed to Charles XII and Ulrika Eleonora, in which he blamed the Danes for their rudeness and espionage. When he tried to send the letters through one of his chamber servants, they were seized by a Danish guard, who handed the letters over to Bonar. Stenbock learned about this the same day, and quickly wrote an anxious letter to Bonar in which he appealed to the commandant not to report the matter further. Stenbock's letter had no effect, and on 4 December Bonar was ordered to arrange a special prison for Stenbock.\nStenbock was moved into the residence of the fortress chaplain, which was converted into a high-status prison, with barred windows and exterior doors. The residence had stoves in each room for heating and Stenbock could furnish it as he pleased. However, the rooms were darkly lit, and the whole residence lacked floor insulation, tormenting Stenbock since moisture and odors came up from the basement. Frederick IV appointed a new commission against Stenbock and his servants and collaborators. The commission began to question Stenbock on 20 December 1714. The commissioners showcased his correspondence with Malmberg, revealing their escape plan. Three days later, his secret treaty with the ministers of Holstein was revealed, along with his field archive with all his secret documents. Stenbock was frightened by the Danes' discovery, since his reputation was at stake. On 25 January 1715 Stenbock was questioned for the second and last time by the commissioners. They explained that Stenbock's documents were now the property of Frederick IV and that his servants had been released. Stenbock, on the other hand, was accused of committing espionage and defaming the Danish regent, thus being guilty of lese-majeste. Stenbock quickly wrote a detailed appeal to Frederick IV, confessing his correspondence and implored the King to not brand him as a spy.\nIt took over a year for Frederick IV to reply to Stenbock's appeal. During 1715 the King entrusted historian Christoph Heinrich Amthor with compiling his public accusation against Stenbock, using examples from Stenbock's own letters to describe his planned secret escape to Scania, his forbidden correspondence with the King's enemies, and his mocking letters about the King, his councillors and the Danish nation as a whole. Stenbock's appeals to Frederick IV were also used in the script, where Amthor made them appear false and opportunistic, and characterized Stenbock as not living up to his own criteria of being an honorable man. In the spring of 1716, Amthor's script was presented to Stenbock. Several months earlier, Stenbock had begun to write a long defensive statement, explaining his failed campaign in Germany, that Vellingk forced him to burn Altona, that G\u00f6rtz tricked him into surrendering T\u00f6nning, and that Frederick IV violated the surrender agreement and treated Stenbock and the Swedish prisoners of war as \"wicked criminals\". Stenbock also lamented his own failures, especially the destruction of Altona, and his lack of time and love for his family. He wrote that he was ready to die and wished that God would give \"a quick, gentle and gracious end upon my current misery.\" He completed the script on his twenty-sixth wedding anniversary, 23 March 1716.\nDuring Stenbock's last years of life his health deteriorated steadily: he had permanent kidney and joint pains and, from 1716, a visual impairment. He was forced to dismiss two of his chamber servants who stole valuables from him, and eventually the food served to him by Commandant Bonar's wife became so inedible that Stenbock could only eat bread and drink wine. In August 1716 Stenbock received an unexpected visit from Tsar Peter I, during which he complained about his harsh captivity and inedible food. Peter I passed these complaints to Frederick IV, and soon afterwards Bonar was dismissed and a new Commandant made sure that Stenbock received better meals. At some point in 1716, Stenbock received news that his daughter Ulrika Magdalena had died during her first labor, on 21 January 1716 at the age of 22. This loss severely damaged his will to live.\nDeath and funeral.\nStenbock died on 23 February 1717 in his cell at Kastellet. The cause of death has not been determined with certainty, but it was probably due to his long illness and lifestyle-related fragility. His defense script, along with other belongings, were hidden in a double-bottomed coffin that was brought to Sweden, and it took several decades before his writings came to public knowledge. On Frederick IV's orders, Stenbock's effects were registered and sealed, and his residence was draped in black velvet. Stenbock lay in state for a few days until he was buried \"with all the conventional military honors\" in the Garrison Church in Copenhagen. His coffin was later transported from Helsing\u00f8r to Helsingborg in November 1719 and then, after a solemn procession across the city, taken to Vapn\u00f6 Castle Church. Stenbock laid there until the death of his wife on 11 May 1722, when they were interred side by side in the Oxenstierna family crypt in Uppsala Cathedral.\nLegacy.\nStenbock is one of the few figures in the history of Sweden to be described as a hero by Swedish historians and become a figure in Swedish folklore. Through his open letters, speeches and defense scripts, Stenbock was able to defend his reputation and spread the image of a bold and far-sighted military leader in 18th-century Europe. The mystique around Stenbock continued to spread throughout the emergence of romantic nationalism during the 19th and early 20th centuries. He was called \"the great Carolean\" by historians such as Erik Gustaf Geijer, Anders Fryxell, Claes Annerstedt, and Carl Grimberg. Among romantic nationalistic cultural personalities, Stenbock has been portrayed in Gustaf Cederstr\u00f6m's historical paintings and in Carl Snoilsky's poems \"Stenbock's courier\" and \"By the Lathe\", as well as in the poem \"Stenbock\" by Oscar Patric Sturzen-Becker and in the play \"Magnus Stenbock\" by Arnold Munthe. The opinion of Stenbock has been less positive abroad. Polish historians called him a war criminal and in Schleswig-Holstein, he was associated with the burning of Altona. However, Danish historians such as Knud Fabricius, August Tuxen, and Palle Lauring have written more positively about Stenbock; Lauring wrote: \"at that time in Denmark, we had not a single man who possessed the skill, intelligence and human carat of Stenbock\". The Swedish memory of Stenbock faded after the Second World War and the long period between 1932 and 1976 when the Swedish Social Democratic Party were in power.\nSome of Stenbock's writings were assembled in 1721 by Joachim Christoph Nemeitz in French called . Stenbock has been the subject of several biographies. The first was written by Samuel Loenbom on behalf of Stenbock's son, Gustaf Leonard Stenbock, and was printed between 1757 and 1765 in four parts of 1,200 pages in total. Subsequent biographies and memoirs have been written by Anders Magnus Strinnholm in 1821, Emilie Risberg in 1866, Claes Annerstedt in 1906, Samuel Ebbe Bring in 1910, Sven Wikberg in 1931, Ingvar Eriksson in 2007, and Andreas Marklund in 2008.\nAn equestrian statue of Magnus Stenbock was unveiled on 3 December 1901 at Stortorget in Helsingborg, with large festivities gathering thousands of people. It was rumored that King Oscar II declined to attend the inauguration, claiming that only members of the royal family should be allowed to be depicted on equestrian statues. However, the king sent a telegram for the inauguration, which read: \"Although prevented from attending today's memorable feast, I am pleased to say that henceforth, Stenbock's memorial shall adorn Helsingborg's town square, always reminding all descendants to serve and protect this beloved motherland just as he did. Oscar.\" It is one of very few non-royal equestrian statues in Sweden. The statue was created by sculptors John B\u00f6rjeson and Carl Johan Nilsson in Otto Meyer's foundry in Stockholm. B\u00f6rjeson's original proposal for the statue was that Stenbock would raise his hand against Denmark, but this was changed since the gesture was considered an unnecessary provocation. For traffic reasons, the statue was moved on 14 May 1959, about to the right close to Helsingborg's city hall. The statue is highly debated among Helsingborg's municipal politicians. By tradition the city's newly graduated students walk seven laps around the statue every June.\nStenbock is honored in several other ways in Helsingborg. Among other things, a former school, a church and a mall have been named after him. Ferdinand Edvard Ring made a statue of Stenbock, which is in H\u00f6gan\u00e4s. One of Sk\u00e5netrafiken's p\u00e5gat\u00e5gen (interurban trains) has been named \"Magnus Stenbock\". Streets have been named after him in up to 30 cities in Sweden."}
{"id": "761892", "revid": "51033278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761892", "title": "Alfred Noyes", "text": "Alfred Noyes CBE (16 September 188025 June 1958) was an English poet, short-story writer and playwright.\nEarly years.\nNoyes was born in Wolverhampton, England the son of Alfred and Amelia Adams Noyes. When he was four, the family moved to Aberystwyth, Wales, where his father taught Latin and Greek. The Welsh coast and mountains were an inspiration to Noyes.\nEarly career.\nIn 1898, he left Aberystwyth for Exeter College, Oxford, where he distinguished himself at rowing, but failed to get his degree because he was meeting his publisher to arrange publication of his first volume of poems, \"The Loom of Years\" (1902), on a crucial day of his finals in 1903. On publication, \"The Loom of Years\" was lauded by W. B. Yeats and George Meredith. Noyes' poetry also proved popular with the book-buying public, and for the first two decades of his career his books sold well.\n\"The Barrel-Organ\" and \"The Highwayman\".\nNoyes published five more volumes of poetry from 1903 to 1913, among them \"The Flower of Old Japan\" (1903) and \"Poems\" (1904). \"Poems\" included \"The Barrel-Organ\". \"The Highwayman\" was first published in the August 1906 issue of \"Blackwood's Magazine\", and included the following year in \"Forty Singing Seamen and Other Poems\". In a nationwide poll conducted by the BBC in 1995 to find Britain's favourite poem, \"The Highwayman\" was voted the nation's 15th favourite poem. This poem was also the inspiration for name of the American folk music revival group, The Highwaymen.\n\"Drake\".\nAnother major work in this phase of his career was \"Drake\", a 200-page epic in blank verse about the Elizabethan naval commander Sir Francis Drake, which was published in two volumes (1906 and 1908). The poem shows the clear influence of Romantic poets such as Tennyson and Wordsworth, both in style and subject. Both volumes of \"Drake\" were the subjects of articles in \"The Times Literary Supplement\".\n\"Sherwood\".\nNoyes' only full-length play, \"Sherwood\", was published in 1911; it was reissued in 1926, with alterations, as \"Robin Hood\". One of his most popular poems, \"A Song of Sherwood\", also dates from 1911. Eventually, one of the more popular ballads dating from this period, \"Bacchus and the Pirates\", was set to music for two voices and piano by Michael Brough, and first performed at the Swaledale Festival in 2012.\nViews on literature.\nNoyes stated that Geoffrey Chaucer, William Shakespeare, John Milton, Samuel Johnson and Alfred, Lord Tennyson were the greatest writers in the English language. Noyes modelled his poetry after Tennyson's, and published a critical study of Tennyson in 1932. Noyes also admired the work of William Morris; his study of that writer was published in 1908. It was praised by Andrew Lang and later by C. S. Lewis.\nBy contrast, Noyes disliked most works of literary modernism. Noyes disdained the poetry of T. S. Eliot, regarding it as abstruse and pretentious. Noyes expressed contempt for Arnold Bennett, H. L. Mencken and Marcel Proust in his book \"The Edge of the Abyss\", describing their works as salacious, irreligious and harmful to society as a whole. Noyes also had a special hatred for the work of James Joyce, calling it \"filth\". Noyes decried Joyce's \"Ulysses\", claiming that the novel was obscure and gratuitously vulgar. In a 1922 article for the \"Sunday Chronicle\", Noyes called \"Ulysses\" \"Literary Bolshevism\" and \"the foulest book that has ever found its way into print.\" When Lord Birkenhead died in 1930, Noyes, in collaboration with Lord Darling, obtained the withdrawal of a copy of \"Ulysses\" (at that time, banned in the UK) from the auction sale of Birkenhead's effects.\nFirst marriage and America.\nIn 1907, Noyes married Garnett Daniels, youngest daughter of US Army Colonel Byron G. Daniels, a Civil War veteran who was for some years U.S. Consul at Hull. Noyes first visited America in February 1913, partly to lecture on world peace and disarmament and partly to satisfy his wife's desire that he should gather fresh experiences in her homeland. His first lecture tour lasted six weeks, extending as far west as Chicago. It proved so successful that he decided to make a second trip to the US in October and to stay six months. In this trip, he visited the principal American universities, including Princeton, where the impression he made on the faculty and undergraduates was so favourable that in February 1914 he was asked to join the staff as a visiting professor, lecturing on modern English literature from February to June. He accepted, and for the next nine years he and his wife divided their year between England and the US. At Princeton, Noyes' students included F. Scott Fitzgerald, Edmund Wilson and John Peale Bishop. He resigned his professorship in 1923, but continued to travel and lecture throughout the United States for the rest of his life. Noyes' work proved to be popular in the United States. His writings were praised by the American reviewers Thomas Bailey Aldrich and William Lyon Phelps, and his poems were reprinted in numerous US newspapers and magazines. His wife died in 1926 at Saint-Jean-de-Luz, France, where she and Noyes were staying with friends.\nWar.\nNoyes is often portrayed by hostile critics as a militarist and jingoist. Actually, he was a pacifist who hated war and lectured against it, but felt that, when threatened by an aggressive and unreasoning enemy, a nation could not but fight. On this principle, he opposed the Boer War, but supported the Allies in both the World Wars. In 1913, when it seemed that war might yet be avoided, he published a long anti-war poem called \"The Wine Press\". One American reviewer wrote that Noyes was \"inspired by a fervent hatred of war and all that war means\", and had used \"all the resources of his varied art\" to depict its \"ultimate horror\". The poet and critic Helen Bullis found Noyes' \"anti-militarist\" poem \"remarkable\", \"passionate and inspiring\", but, in its \"unsparing realism\", lacking in \"the large vision, which sees the ultimate truth rather than the immediate details\". In her view, Noyes failed to address the \"vital questions\" raised, for example, by William James' observation that for modern man, \"War is the \"strong\" life; it is life \"in extremis\"\", or by Shakespeare's invocation in \"The Two Noble Kinsmen\" of war as the \"great corrector\" that heals and cures \"sick\" times. Bullis, a Freudian (unlike Noyes, for whom psychoanalysis was a pseudo-science), thought war had deeper roots than Noyes acknowledged. She saw looming \"the great figures of the Fates back of the conflict, while Mr Noyes sees only the 'five men in black tail-coats' whose cold statecraft is responsible for it\". In 1915, Upton Sinclair included some striking passages from \"The Wine Press\" in his anthology of the literature of social protest, \"The Cry for Justice\".\nDuring World War I, Noyes was debarred by defective eyesight from serving at the front. Instead, from 1916, he did his military service on attachment to the Foreign Office, where he worked with John Buchan on propaganda. He also did his patriotic chore as a literary figure, writing morale-boosting short stories and exhortatory odes and lyrics recalling England's military past and asserting the morality of her cause. These works are now forgotten, apart from two ghost stories, \"The \"Lusitania\" Waits\" and \"The Log of the \"Evening Star\"\", which are still occasionally reprinted in collections of tales of the uncanny. \"The \"Lusitania\" Waits\" is a ghost revenge story based on the sinking of the \"Lusitania\" by a German submarine in 1915 \u2013 although the tale hinges on an erroneous claim that the submarine crew had been awarded the Goetz medal for sinking the ship.\nHe aided pacifist causes financially, by contributing the whimsical poem \"A Spell for a Fairy\" to \"Princess Mary's Gift Book\" (c. 1915). The illustrations for this, by C.H.Shepperson, formed the templates for the Cottingley Fairies, controversially accepted, for instance by Arthur Conan Doyle as genuine evidence for psychic phenomena.\nDuring World War II, Noyes wrote the same kind of patriotic poems, but he also wrote a much longer and more considered work, \"If Judgement Comes\", in which Hitler stands accused before the tribunal of history. It was first published separately (1941) and then in the collection, \"Shadows on the Down and Other Poems\" (1945). The only fiction Noyes published in World War II was \"The Last Man\" (1940), a science fiction novel whose message could hardly be more anti-war. In the first chapter, a global conflict wipes out almost the entire human race.\nNoyes' best-known anti-war poem, \"The Victory Ball\" (aka \"A Victory Dance\"), was first published in \"The Saturday Evening Post\" in 1920. He wrote it after attending a ball held in London soon after the Armistice, where he found himself wondering what the ghosts of the soldiers who had died in the war would say if they could observe the thoughtless frivolity of the dancers. The message of the poem lies in the line, \"Under the dancing feet are the graves.\" A brief passage about a girl \"fresh from school\" who \"begs for a dose of the best cocaine\" was replaced by something innocuous in the \"Post\" version, but reinstated when the poem appeared in a collection of Noyes' verse. \"The Victory Ball\" was turned into a symphonic poem by Ernest Schelling and into a ballet by Benjamin Zemach. In 1966, at the height of the Vietnam War, Congressman H. R. Gross, indignant at a White House dinner dance that went on until 3 a.m. while American soldiers were giving their lives, inserted Noyes' poem in the \"Congressional Record\" as bearing \"directly on the subject matter in hand\".\nMiddle years.\nIn 1918, Noyes' short story collection, \"Walking Shadows: Sea Tales and Others\", came out. It included both \"The \"Lusitania\" Waits\" and \"The Log of the \"Evening Star\"\". In 1924 Noyes published another collection, \"The Hidden Player\", which included a novella, \"Beyond the Desert: A Tale of Death Valley\", already published separately in America in 1920.\nFor the Pageant of Empire at the 1924 British Empire Exhibition, Noyes wrote a series of poems set to music by Sir Edward Elgar and known as \"Pageant of Empire\". Among these poems was \"Shakespeare's Kingdom\".\nIn 1929, Noyes published the first of his three novels, \"The Return of the Scare-Crow\" (US title: \"The Sun Cure\"). A light-hearted story combining adventure, satire and comedy, it is about an earnest young clergyman named Basil. During a walk on the South Downs, Basil comes across a ruined cottage, where he decides to try sunbathing naked, as recommended by a friend. His clothes vanish, and he has to battle his way back to them through a series of mental hazards \u2013 all the latest intellectual fads and follies \u2013 and ends up rather less na\u00efve than before.\nSecond marriage and Catholicism.\nIn 1927, the year after his first wife's death, Noyes married Mary Angela \"n\u00e9e\" Mayne (1889\u20131976), widow of Lieutenant Richard Shireburn Weld-Blundell, a member of the old recusant Catholic Weld-Blundell family, who had been killed in World War I. Later that year, Noyes himself converted to Catholicism. He gives an account of his conversion in his autobiography, \"Two Worlds for Memory\" (1953), but sets forth the more intellectual steps by which he was led from agnosticism to the Catholic faith in \"The Unknown God\" (1934), a widely read work of Christian apologetics which has been described as \"the spiritual biography of a generation\". In 1929, Noyes and Mary Angela settled at Lisle Combe, on the Undercliff near Ventnor, Isle of Wight. They had three children: Hugh (1929\u20132000), Veronica and Margaret. Noyes' younger daughter married Michael Nolan (later Lord Nolan) in 1953.\n\"The Torch-Bearers\".\nNoyes' ambitious epic verse trilogy \"The Torch-Bearers\" \u2013 comprising \"Watchers of the Sky\" (1922), \"The Book of Earth\" (1925) and \"The Last Voyage\" (1930) \u2013 deals with the history of science. In the \"Prefatory Note\" to \"Watchers of the Sky\", Noyes expresses his purpose in writing the trilogy:\n\"Watchers of the Sky\".\nNoyes adds that the theme of the trilogy had long been in his mind, but the first volume, dealing with \"Watchers of the Sky\", began to take definite shape only on the night of 1/2 November 1917, when the 100-inch reflecting telescope at Mount Wilson Observatory was first tested by starlight. George Ellery Hale, the man who conceived and founded the observatory, had invited Noyes, who was then in California, to be his guest on this momentous occasion, and the prologue, subtitled \"The Observatory\", gives Noyes' detailed description of that \"unforgettable...night\". In his review of \"Watchers of the Sky\", the scholar and historian of science Frederick E. Brasch writes that Noyes' \"journey up to the mountain's top, the observatory, the monastery, telescopes and mirrors, clockwork, switchboard, the lighted city below, planets and stars, atoms and electrons all are woven into...beautiful narrative poetry. It seems almost incredible that technical terms and concepts could lend themselves for that purpose.\"\nAfter the prologue come seven long poems, each of which depicts salient episodes in the career of a major scientist, so as to bring out both the \"intensely human drama\" (\"Prefatory Note\") of his life and his contribution to astronomy. Noyes' seven scientists are Nicolaus Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, Johannes Kepler, Galileo Galilei, Isaac Newton, and William and John Herschel \u2013 though due mention is also made of the contribution of Caroline Herschel, sister to William and aunt to John. In the epilogue, Noyes meditates once more upon the mountain in the morning, before bringing his narrative to a close in the form of a prayer.\nIn his review, Frederick E. Brasch writes that Noyes' \"knowledge of the science of astronomy and its history...seems remarkable in one who is so entirely unrelated to the work of an observatory\". \"Watchers of the Sky\", he adds, will no doubt appeal to the layman \"for its beauty and the music of its narrative verse, broken and interspersed with epic poetry. But it remains for the astronomer and other scholars in science to enjoy it to the fullness which is adequate to Noyes' ability as a poet.\"\n\"The Book of Earth\".\n\"The Book of Earth\" is the second volume in the trilogy. In eight sections framed by a meditative prologue and epilogue, it follows the discoveries of scientists in their struggles to solve the mysteries of the earth, of life forms, and of human origins. Starting in ancient Greece with Pythagoras and Aristotle, it then moves to the Middle East for Al-Farabi and Avicenna. The scene then shifts successively to Italy for Leonardo da Vinci, France for Jean-\u00c9tienne Guettard, Sweden for Carl Linnaeus, France again for Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon, Jean Baptiste Lamarck, Antoine Lavoisier, and Georges Cuvier, and then Germany for Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, before ending in England with Charles Darwin. Reviewing \"The Book of Earth\" for \"Nature\", F. S. Marvin wrote, \"It deals with a much more difficult subject from the point of view of poetic presentation, namely biology, or rather geology as a preface to zoology and evolution as crowning geology.\" Nevertheless, it does not \"belie the...expectations\" raised by its predecessor. By contrast, Edgell Rickword in the September 1925 issue of \"The Calendar of Modern Letters\" gave a negative review of \"The Book of Earth\". Rickword stated: \"If \u2018science\u2019 had really meant anything, poetically, to Mr. Noyes, it would have altered his universe; would have created metaphors. As it is, he sails his pretentious kite with rags of literature and superstition in its tail.\" Rickword's article on Noyes was reprinted in the book \"Towards Standards of Criticism\" by the literary critic F. R. Leavis in 1933. In his introduction to that book, Leavis described Noyes' poetry as \"intrinsically uninteresting work\". Because of Rickword and Leavis' prominence as literary critics, Noyes' literary reputation began to decline in the 1920s.\n\"The Last Voyage\".\nBefore Noyes had begun proper work on the final volume in the trilogy, \"The Last Voyage\", two events occurred which were to influence it greatly: his first wife's death and his conversion to Roman Catholicism. Death is a major theme in \"The Last Voyage\", as its very title suggests. The tone, more sombre than that of its predecessors, is also more religious \u2013 though religion was hardly absent from the earlier volumes \u2013 and, as might be expected, more specifically Catholic.\n\"The Last Voyage\" begins at night in mid-Atlantic, where an ocean liner, \"a great ship like a lighted city\", is battling through a raging storm. A little girl is mortally ill. The ship's surgeon prepares to operate, but with little hope of success, for the case is complicated and he is no specialist. Luckily, the captain knows from the wireless news that a top specialist from Johns Hopkins Hospital is on another liner 400 miles away \u2013 within wireless range. The ship's surgeon will be able to consult him, and stay in touch with him throughout the operation. Suddenly, the little girl's chances of survival are much improved. In a manner of speaking, all the scientific discoveries and inventions of the past are being brought to bear in the attempt to save her life. When the poet asks a casually-met fellow-passenger, \"You think they'll save her?\" the stranger replies, \"\"They\" may save her\", and then adds enigmatically, \"But who are \"They\"?\"\nReflecting, the poet realises that \"They\" are all the seekers and discoverers of scientific truths through the ages \u2013 people like William Harvey, Louis Pasteur and Joseph Lister in the field of medicine or Michael Faraday, James Clerk Maxwell and Heinrich Hertz in the development of the wireless. Nevertheless, despite the united efforts of all, the little girl dies, and in the darkness of that loss the poet finds that only in Faith can a flicker of light be found. Science cannot defeat death in the long run, and sometimes, as in the little girl's case, not even in the short run, but if \"Love, not Death\" is the ultimate reality, death will not have the final word. Of course, the \"last voyage\" of the title is not just that of the little girl or of Noyes' second wife \u2013 though there are lyrics mourning her in Section XIII and another in the Dedication at the end \u2013 but of everyman and everywoman.\nF. S. Marvin, who reviewed all three volumes of \"The Torch-Bearers\" for \"Nature\", wrote that \"the third volume is certainly the best from the artistic point of view. It contains one well-conceived and highly interesting incident, around which the author's pictures of the past and incidental lyrics are effectively grouped, and it leads up to a full and eloquent exposition of the religious synthesis with which the history of science inspires him.\"\n\"The Last Man\".\nIn 1940 Noyes published a science fiction novel, \"The Last Man\" (US title: \"No Other Man\"), in which the human race is almost wiped out by a powerful death ray capable of killing everyone, friend or foe, unless they are in a steel chamber deep under the surface of the sea. The inventor's chief assistant unscrupulously sells the plans to the leading nations of the world, who declare they will use the ray only as a \"last resort\". When events spiral out of control, however, they all activate it, killing everyone living on the earth.\nWhen the death ray strikes, a 29-year-old Englishman named Mark Adams is trapped in a sunken submarine. Managing to escape, he finds himself the only survivor in Britain. He travels to Paris in the hope of finding another survivor. There he discovers a clue which gives him hope. His search leads him to Italy, where he finally finds the other survivor, an American girl named Evelyn Hamilton. At the time when the death ray struck, she was in a diving bell deep below the surface of the Mediterranean, where, under the guidance of Mardok, an immensely wealthy magnate and scientific genius, she was engaged in photographing the floor of the sea. Her companion turns out to be the villain of the story. Knowing the power of the ray, for whose development he had been largely responsible, he had made sure that, at the time of its activation, he was safely out of its reach, along with an attractive young woman with whom he could later begin the repopulation of the planet. Evelyn, however, finds him repulsive, and the arrival of the upstanding, handsome young Englishman further upsets Mardok's plan. In the ensuing competition between the two men for the girl, Mark Adams' surname is a clear hint at which of the two is better fitted to be Adam to Evelyn's Eve. The two young people fall in love, but Mardok kidnaps Evelyn. After her escape and Mardok's death, the novel concludes with the young couple's discovery of some other survivors at Assisi.\nFor Charles Holland, reviewing the novel in the 1940s, Noyes' combination of \"such elements of human interest as apologetics, art, travel and a captivating love story\" mean that the reader of \"The Last Man\" is assured of both \"an intellectual treat and real entertainment\". Eric Atlas, writing in an early science fiction fanzine, found the novel, despite some flaws, \"well worth the reading \u2013 perhaps twice\". The philosophico-religious theme, he wrote, \"detracts in no way from the forceful characterizations...of Mark and Evelyn\". Besides, most of the novel is set \"in Italy, where Noyes' descriptive powers as a poet come to the fore\". \"The Last Man\" seems to be the novel which introduced the idea of a doomsday weapon. It is thought to have been among the influences on George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\nLater years.\nIn 1940, Noyes returned to North America, where he lectured and advocated the British war position. The following year, he gave the Josiah Wood lectures at Mount Allison University, New Brunswick, Canada. Titled \"The Edge of the Abyss\", they were first published in Canada in 1942 and then, in a revised version, in the United States the same year and in Britain two years later. In \"The Edge of the Abyss\", Noyes ponders the future of the world, attacking totalitarianism, bureaucracy, the pervasive power of the state, and the collapse of moral standards. George Orwell reviewed the book for \"The Observer\" and, like \"The Last Man\", it is considered a probable influence on \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\nIn his review, Orwell wrote that \"The Edge of the Abyss\" \"raises a real problem,\" paraphrasing Noyes' premise as a question of \"decay in the belief in absolute good and evil,\" with the result that the \"rules of behaviour on which any stable society has to rest are dissolving\" and \"even the prudential reasons for common decency are being forgotten.\" Indeed, in Orwell's view, Noyes \"probably even underemphasises the harm done to ordinary common sense by the cult of 'realism', with its inherent tendency to assume that the dishonest course is always the profitable one.\" Orwell, however, finds Noyes' suggested remedy, a return to Christianity, \"doubtful, even from the point of view of practicality.\" He agrees that the \"problem of our time is to restore the sense of absolute right and wrong\" but this is at a time when its foundation, a belief in personal immortality, has been \"destroyed.\" While Orwell names \"faith\" as what would be needed in this restoration, he also notes that focusing on Christian faith as Noyes does would exclude wide swaths of Asia and imply a \"good life\" could only be lived on the \"fringes of the Atlantic.\" Orwell concludes Noyes \"is probably wrong in imagining that the Christian faith, as it existed in the past, can be restored even in Europe.\" Orwell does not expound further on what his broader concept of \"faith\" entails.\nAn anonymous review of \"The Edge of the Abyss\" in the American magazine \"Free World\" was more critical. The review focuses on Noyes' claim that literary Modernism is a symptom of the problems of the world, and concluded: \"The point is debatable, the argument high-pitched and inconclusive, and the remedies proposed vague and unsatisfactory.\"\nNoyes remained in retirement in California for some years. In 1943, he published \"The Secret of Pooduck Island\", a children's story set off the coast of Maine. It features a family of squirrels threatened by natural enemies (skunks, weasels) and humans, the ghost of a Native American man who suffered a terrible sorrow in the colonial era, and a teenage boy who has ambitions to be an artist and who is able to help both the squirrels and the ghost. It is, however, far more profound and terrible than the lighthearted accounts of animal behaviour seem on the surface to indicate; a mysterious voice keeps whispering words of mystery to the artist Solo, and most of the characters turn out to be incarnations of the various follies and stupidities of mankind: the fierce lonely boy-artist (who is nearly locked up as insane by the petty spiteful villagers) and the pudgy but wise priest, as well as the solemn ghost of Squando, being the only exceptions against which the others are contrasted. The entire \"secret\" of Pooduck Island consists in the gleams of the supernatural that blaze through the canopy of the material world, like a glimpse of the ocean through an arch in the woods that Solo names the \"Eye\" of the island. The mysterious Voice, who is hinted to be Glooskap himself, appears indirectly as an invisible model for a portrait of the Squirrel family, who think they are seated on a stump: but the picture records him.\nIn 1949, Noyes returned to his home on the Isle of Wight. As a result of increasing blindness, he dictated all his subsequent works. In 1952 he brought out another book for children, \"Daddy Fell into the Pond and Other Poems\". The title poem has remained a firm favourite with children ever since. In 2005, it was one of the few poems that featured in both of two major anthologies of poetry for children published that year, one edited by Caroline Kennedy, the other by Elise Paschen.\nIn 1955, Noyes published the satirical fantasy novel \"The Devil Takes A Holiday\", in which the Devil, in the guise of Mr Lucius Balliol, an international financier, comes to Santa Barbara, California, for a pleasant little holiday. He finds however, that his work is being so efficiently performed by humankind that he has become redundant. The unwonted soul-searching this leads him to is not only painful but also \u2013 owing to a tragicomic twist at the end \u2013 ultimately futile. Brian Stableford has described \"The Devil Takes A Holiday\" as \"comic affair\" and \"an interesting example of English \"Literary Satanism.\"\"\nNoyes' last book of poetry, \"A Letter to Lucian and Other Poems\", came out in 1956, two years before his death by polio.\n\"The Accusing Ghost\".\nIn 1957, Noyes published his last book, \"The Accusing Ghost, or Justice for Casement\" (US title: \"The Accusing Ghost of Roger Casement\"). In 1916, the renowned human rights campaigner Roger Casement was hanged for his involvement in the Irish Nationalist revolt in Dublin known as the Easter Rising. To forestall calls for clemency, the British authorities showed public figures and known sympathizers selected pages from some of Casement's diaries \u2013 known as the \"Black Diaries\" \u2013 that exposed him as a promiscuous homosexual. As a consequence the expected protests and petitions for Casement's reprieve failed to materialise.\nAmong those who read these extracts was Noyes, who was then working in the News Department of the Foreign Office and who described the pages as a \"foul record\" of \"the lowest depths that human degradation has ever touched\". Later that year in Philadelphia, when Noyes was about to give a lecture on the English poets, he was confronted by Casement's sister, Nina, who denounced him as a \"blackguardly scoundrel\" and cried, \"Your countrymen hanged my brother Roger Casement.\"\nWorse was to come. After Casement's death, the British authorities held the diaries in conditions of extraordinary secrecy, arousing strong suspicions among Casement's supporters that they were forged. In 1936, there appeared a book by an American doctor, William J. Maloney, called \"The Forged Casement Diaries\". After reading it, W. B. Yeats wrote a protest poem, \"Roger Casement\", which was published with great prominence in \"The Irish Press\". In the fifth stanza of the poem, Yeats named Alfred Noyes and called on him to desert the side of the forger and perjurer. Noyes immediately responded with a letter to \"The Irish Press\" in which he explained why he had assumed the diaries were authentic, confessed he might have been misled, and called for the setting up of a committee to examine the original documents and settle the matter. In response to what he called Noyes' \"noble\" letter, Yeats amended his poem, removing Noyes' name.\nOver twenty years later, Casement's diaries were still being held in the same conditions of secrecy. In 1957, therefore, Noyes published \"The Accusing Ghost, or Justice for Casement\", a stinging rebuke of British policy in which, making full amends for his previous harsh judgement, he argued that Casement had indeed been the victim of a British Intelligence plot.\nIn 2002, a forensic examination of the \"Black Diaries\" concluded that they were authentic.\nDeath.\nNoyes' last poem, \"Ballade of the Breaking Shell\", was written in May 1958, one month before his death. He died at the age of 77, and is buried in the Roman Catholic cemetery at Totland, Isle of Wight."}
{"id": "761893", "revid": "146242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761893", "title": "The Manifesto of the Fascist Struggle", "text": ""}
{"id": "761895", "revid": "4444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761895", "title": "Jack Noworth", "text": ""}
{"id": "761896", "revid": "8524693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761896", "title": "Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Basic Outline", "text": "The Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences in Basic Outline (), by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (first published in 1817, second edition 1827, third edition 1830), is a work that presents an abbreviated version of Hegel's systematic philosophy in its entirety, and is the only form in which Hegel ever published his entire mature philosophical system. The fact that the account is exhaustive, that the grounding structures of reality are ideal, and that the system is closed makes the \"Encyclopedia\" a statement par excellence of absolute idealism.\nIntended as a pedagogical aid for attendees of his lectures, Hegel revised and extended the \"Encyclopedia\" over more than a decade, but stressed its role as a \"textbook\" in need of elucidation through oral commentary. The 1830 text is widely available in various English translations with copious additions (\"Zus\u00e4tze\") added posthumously by Hegel's students, deriving from their lecture notes. These additions expand on the text with examples and illustrations, and while scholars do not take the \"Zus\u00e4tze\" to be verbatim transcription of Hegel's lectures, their more informal and non-technical style make them good stand-ins for the \"necessary oral commentary\".\nPart I of the work is sometimes referred to as the Lesser Logic (or Shorter Logic) to distinguish it from the \"Greater Logic\", the moniker given to Hegel's \"Science of Logic\".\nStructure.\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" has three main parts, each of which is further subdivided, which together purport to cover all the fundamental aspects of reality, and form a closed systematic unity.\nHegel is careful to methodically derive each category of reality ('thought-determination') from its predecessor notion, with the completed system bringing the circle to a close, demonstrating its unity.\nOverview.\nThe work describes the pattern of the Idea as manifesting itself in dialectical reasoning.\nWhile some believe that the philosophy of nature and mind are applications of the logic, this is a misunderstanding. The purpose of the \"Encyclopedia\" is descriptive: to describe how the idea (or reason) develops itself and not to apply the dialectical method to all areas of human knowledge, but the Idea is in the process of growing, like a seed growing into a mature tree: it passes through stages. The first stage of the idea's development is described in the Logic. Thus, the Logic presents the categories of thought as they are in themselves; they are the minimal conditions for thinking anything at all, the conceptions that run in the background of all our thinking. For Hegel, unlike Kant, reason is not just \"for us\", but rather it is immanent within being. The rational alone is real, and is the substrate of all things. In order to get at what a thing \"is\", we must think about it. No amount of observing will bring us to the essence of things. Thinking and being are equivalent, and so logic and metaphysics are equivalent as well. \nAs the idea works itself out more fully, it reaches the point where it simply cannot remain as it is; it is incomplete, and therefore it \"others\" itself; this is where the philosophy of nature emerges. When this stage of its development is completed, the idea \"returns\" to itself, which is the emergence of the philosophy of mind, or Geist, out of nature. Spirit is reason become self-conscious of itself as reason. \nHegel used the term \"diamond net\" in the book. He said, \u201cthe entire range of the universal determinations of thought\u2026 into which everything is brought and thereby first made intelligible.\u201d In other words, the diamond net of which Hegel speaks are the logical categories according to which we understand our experience, thus making our empirical observations intelligible."}
{"id": "761897", "revid": "37052726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761897", "title": "Russsian constitution", "text": ""}
{"id": "761898", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761898", "title": "Anton Novotny", "text": ""}
{"id": "761899", "revid": "49409394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761899", "title": "Sayings of Jesus on the cross", "text": "The sayings of Jesus on the cross (sometimes called the Seven Last Words from the Cross) are seven expressions biblically attributed to Jesus during his crucifixion. Traditionally, the brief sayings have been called \"words\".\nThe seven sayings are gathered from the four canonical gospels. In Matthew and Mark, Jesus cries out to God. In Luke, he forgives his killers, reassures the penitent thief, and commends his spirit to the Father. In John, he speaks to his mother, says he thirsts, and declares the end of his earthly life. This is an example of the Christian approach to the construction of a gospel harmony, in which material from different gospels is combined, producing an account that goes beyond each gospel.\nSince the 16th century, these sayings have been widely used in sermons on Good Friday, and entire books have been written on the theological analysis of them. The Seven Last Words from the Cross are an integral part of the liturgy in the Catholic, Protestant, and other Christian traditions. Several composers have set the sayings to music.\nOverview.\nIn the following table, the seven sayings are arranged according to their traditional order. However, all seven sayings cannot be found in any one account of Jesus' crucifixion. The ordering is a harmonisation of the texts from each of the four canonical gospels. Three of the sayings appear only in Luke and three only in John. One other saying appears both in Matthew and Mark, and another (\"It is finished\") is only directly quoted in John but alluded to in Matthew and Mark.\nThe sayings form part of the Stations of the Cross, a Christian meditation that is often used during Lent, Holy Week and Good Friday.\nThe Dominican author Timothy Radcliffe sees the number seven as significant, as the number of perfection in the Bible. He writes that as God created the world in seven days, \"these seven words belong to God's completion of that creation\".\nHistoricity.\nJames Dunn considers the seven sayings weakly rooted in tradition and sees them as a part of the elaborations in the diverse retellings of Jesus' final hours. He does, however, argue in favour of the authenticity of the Mark/Matthew saying, in which Jesus seems to describe himself as forsaken by God. This would have been an embarrassment to the early Church, and hence would likely not have been invented. Leslie Houlden suggests that Luke may have deliberately excluded this saying from his gospel because it did not fit in with the model of Jesus he was presenting.\nMichael Licona suggests that John has redacted Jesus' authentic statements as recorded in Matthew, Mark and Luke. Where Matthew and Mark have Jesus quote Psalm 22:1, John records that \"in order that the Scripture may be fulfilled, Jesus said, 'I am thirsty'.\" Jesus' final words as recorded in Luke are simplified in John into \"It is finished.\"\nThe seven sayings.\n1. Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.\nThis first saying of Jesus on the cross is traditionally called \"The Word of Forgiveness\". It is theologically interpreted as Jesus' prayer for forgiveness for the Roman soldiers who were crucifying him and all others who were involved in his crucifixion.\nSome early manuscripts do not include this sentence in Luke 23:34. Biblical scholars such as Bart Ehrman have argued that the words were omitted by some scribes because of anti-Judaic sentiment around the second century.\n2. shalt thou be with me in paradise.\nThis saying is traditionally called \"The Word of Salvation\". According to the Gospel of Luke, Jesus was crucified between two thieves (traditionally named Dismas and Gestas), one of whom supports Jesus' innocence and asks him to remember him when he comes into his kingdom. Jesus replies, \"Verily I say unto thee...\" (), followed with the only appearance of the word \"Paradise\" in the gospels (, originally from Persian , \"paradise garden\").\nA seemingly simple change in punctuation in this saying has been the subject of doctrinal differences among Christian groups, given the lack of punctuation in the original Greek texts. Catholics and most Protestant Christians usually use a version which reads \"today you will be with me in Paradise\". This reading assumes a direct voyage to Heaven and has no implications of purgatory. On the other hand, some Protestants who believe in soul sleep have used a reading which emphasizes \"I say to you today\", leaving open the possibility that the statement was made today, but arrival in Heaven may be later.\n3. Woman, behold, thy son! Behold, thy mother!\n \nThis statement is traditionally called \"The Word of Relationship\" and in it Jesus entrusts Mary, his mother, into the care of \"the disciple whom Jesus loved\".\nJesus also addresses his mother as \"woman\" in John 2:4. Although this sounds dismissive in English, the Greek word is a term of respect or tenderness. Catholic commentators, on the basis of these two passages, often connect Mary with the \"woman\" of Genesis 3:15, and the \"woman clothed with the sun\" in Revelation 12, and therefore see this title of \"woman\" as a justification for the veneration of Mary as a second Eve.\n4. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?\nThis saying, traditionally called \u201cThe Word of Abandonment\u201d, is only one that appears in more than one gospel. In both accounts, the words spoken by Jesus have been transliterated from Aramaic into Greek, and there are slight differences between the two versions (Mark: ; Matthew: ). In both cases, \u03c3\u03b1\u03b2\u03b1\u03c7\u03b8\u03b1\u03bd\u03af seems to be the Greek transliteration of Aramaic \u05e9\u05d1\u05e7\u05ea\u05e0\u05d9 \"\u0161\u0259\u1e07aqtan\u012b,\" meaning \"forsaken me\". \nBoth versions can be said to be in Aramaic rather than in closely related Hebrew because of the verb (\"\u0161bq\") \"abandon\", which exists only in Aramaic. The Hebrew counterpart to this word, (\"zb\"), is seen in the second line of the Old Testament's Psalm 22, which the saying appears to quote. Thus, Jesus is not quoting the canonical Hebrew version (\"\u0113l\u012b \u0113l\u012b l\u0101m\u0101 'azabt\u0101n\u012b\"), attributed in some Jewish interpretations to King David, but rather the version in an Aramaic Targum (translation of the Bible). Surviving Aramaic Targums do use the verb \"\u0161bq\" in their translations of the Psalm 22.\nIn the next verse, in both accounts, some who hear Jesus' cry imagine that he is calling for help from Elijah (\"\u0112l\u012by\u0101\" in Aramaic).\nThe Aramaic word form \u05e9\u05d1\u05e7\u05ea\u05e0\u05d9 \"\u0161\u0259\u1e07aqtan\u012b\" is based on the verb \"\u0161\u01dd\u1e07aq\"/\"\u0161\u0101\u1e07aq\", 'to allow, to permit, to forgive, and to forsake', with the perfect tense ending \"-t\" (2nd person singular: 'you'), and the object suffix \"-an\u012b\" (1st person singular: 'me').\nIn Hebrew, the saying would be \"\" (\"\u0113l\u012b \u0113l\u012b, l\u0101m\u0101 'azabt\u0101n\u012b\" in Biblical Hebrew, \"eli eli lama azavtani\" in Modern Hebrew pronunciation), while the Syriac-Aramaic phrase according to the Peshitta would be (Matthew 27:46) or (Mark 15:34).\nThis saying is taken by some as an abandonment of the Son by the Father. Another interpretation holds that at the moment when Jesus took upon himself the sins of humanity, the Father had to turn away from the Son because the Father is \"of purer eyes than to see evil and cannot look at wrong\" (ESV). Other theologians understand the cry as that of one who was truly human and who felt forsaken. Put to death by his foes, very largely deserted by his friends, he may have also felt deserted by God.\nOthers see these words in the context of Psalm 22 and suggest that Jesus recited these words, perhaps even the whole psalm, \"that he might show himself to be the very Being to whom the words refer; so that the Jewish scribes and people might examine and see the cause why he would not descend from the cross; namely, because this very psalm showed that it was appointed that he should suffer these things.\"\n5. I thirst.\nThis statement is traditionally called \"The Word of Distress\" and is compared and contrasted with the encounter of Jesus with the Samaritan woman at the well in John 4.\nOnly John records this saying, but all four gospels relate that Jesus was offered a drink of sour wine (possibly posca). In Mark and Matthew, a sponge was soaked in the wine and lifted up to Jesus on a reed; John says the same, but states that the sponge was affixed to a hyssop branch. This may have been intended as symbolically significant, as hyssop branches are often mentioned in the Old Testament in the context of the use of sacrificial blood for ritual purification.\nThis statement of Jesus is interpreted by John as fulfilment of the prophecy given in Psalm 69:21, \"in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink\"; hence the quotation from John's gospel includes the comment \"that the scripture might be fulfilled\". The Jerusalem Bible cross-references Psalm 22:15: \"my palate is drier than a potsherd, and my tongue is stuck to my jaw\".\n6. It is finished.\nThis statement is traditionally called \"The Word of Triumph\" and is theologically interpreted as the announcement of the end of the earthly life of Jesus, in anticipation for the Resurrection.\nThe Greek word translated \"It is finished\" is (). The verse has also been translated as \"It is consummated.\" \nThe utterance after consuming the beverage and immediately before death is mentioned, but not explicitly quoted, in Mark 15:37 and Matthew 27:50 (both of which state that Jesus \"cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost\").\n7. Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit.\nFrom Psalm 31:5, this saying, which is an announcement and not a request, is traditionally called \"The Word of Reunion\" and is theologically interpreted as the proclamation of Jesus joining God the Father in Heaven.\nThe words of Luke 23:46, or the fuller Psalm 31:5, have subsequently been attributed as last words of famous people, especially those considered pious Christians, such as martyrs or saints. These include \nPhilip the Apostle (died AD 80), Basil the Great (AD 379), Charlemagne (died 814), Ansgar (865), Thomas Becket (1170), Jan Hus (1415), Christopher Columbus (1506), Ludovica Albertoni (1533), Martin Luther (1546), George Wishart (1546), Lady Jane Grey (1554), her father Henry, Duke of Suffolk (1555), Thomas of Villanova (1555), Mary, Queen of Scots (1587), Aloysius Gonzaga (1591), Torquato Tasso (1595), Turibius of Mogrovejo (1606), John Bruen (1625), George Herbert (1633), Covenanters including Hugh Mackail (1666) and James Renwick (1688), and Christian Friedrich Schwarz (1798)."}
{"id": "761900", "revid": "42412221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761900", "title": "Parti Radical de Gauche", "text": ""}
{"id": "761902", "revid": "50715399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761902", "title": "Novatian", "text": "Novatian (Greek: , , ) was a scholar, priest, and theologian. He is considered by the Catholic Church to have been an antipope between 251 and 258. Some Greek authors give his name as Novatus, who was an African presbyter.\nHe was a noted theologian and writer, the first Roman theologian who used the Latin language, at a time when there was much debate about how to deal with Christians who had lapsed and wished to return, and the issue of penance. Consecrated as pope by three bishops in 251, he adopted a more rigorous position than the established Pope Cornelius. Novatian was shortly afterwards excommunicated: the schismatic church which he established persisted for several centuries (see Novatianism).\nLife.\nFew details are known as to his life. He was a man of learning and had been trained in literary composition.\nPope Cornelius, in a letter to Fabius of Antioch, states that a catechumen called Novatian was possessed by Satan for a whole season. \"A deep and settled melancholy had fastened on his mind; and the Christians who knew him said that an evil spirit had got possession of him, and that if he would profess Christ the evil spirit would go out of him; so, from a hope of recovering his health, he professed Christianity.\" Exorcists attended him, but he fell into a sickness from which imminent death was expected; he was, therefore, given baptism by affusion as he lay on his bed. The rest of the rites were not supplied on his recovery, nor was he confirmed by the bishop. \"How then can he have received the Holy Ghost?\" asked Cornelius.\nFor his profound learning, Cornelius sarcastically defined him as \"that creator of dogmas, that champion of ecclesiastical culture\", but his eloquence impressed Saint Cyprian of Carthage and Pope Fabian made him a priest despite the protests of the clergy that one who had been baptised only and had not been confirmed could not become a priest.\nThe story told by Eulogius, bishop of Alexandria, that Novatian was an archdeacon of Rome consecrated a priest by the pope in order to prevent his succeeding to the papacy, is contradicted by Cornelius and is based on a later state of affairs in which Roman deacons were statesmen rather than religious ministers.\nNovatian became a leading presbyter of the Roman Church, and one of the most noted personages in the Church of the 3rd century. Saint Cyprian of Carthage later accused Novatian of striking his pregnant wife in the stomach and causing an abortion.\nDecian persecution.\nOn 20 January 250, during the Decian persecution, Pope Fabian was martyred and the persecution was so fierce that it proved impossible to elect a successor, with the papal seat remaining vacant for a year. During this period the church was governed by several priests, including Novatian. In a letter the following year, Cornelius speaks of his rival whose cowardice and love of his own life made him deny to the persecutors that he was a priest and refuse to comfort his brothers in danger. The deacons urged him to come out of hiding, but he told them that he was in love with another philosophy and thus did not want to be a priest any longer. The anonymous work \"Ad Novatianum\" (XIII) states that Novatian, \"so long as he was in the one house, that is in Christ's Church, bewailed the sins of his neighbours as if they were his own, bore the burdens of the brethren, as the Apostle exhorts, and strengthened with consolation the backsliding in heavenly faith\".\nNovatian wrote two letters during the persecution in the name of the Roman clergy to Saint Cyprian. These letters look at the question of those who had lapsed from the faith and the Carthaginians' demands for them all to be allowed back into the church without penance. The Roman clergy agreed with Cyprian that the question had to be treated with moderation and balance by a council at the earliest possible opportunity, after the election of a new bishop. In any case, they held that they had to maintain the just church discipline that had marked the Roman church since the time of Saint Paul, without being cruel to those who were penitent. These letters use strong expressions but show that the Roman clergy did not think the readmission of lapsed Christians to communion was entirely impossible.\nNovatian disagreed with this viewpoint and believed that reconciling those who had lapsed would compromise the integrity of the Church. Arguing that idolatry was an unforgivable sin and that the church had no right to readmit lapsed members to communion, Novatian argued that the church could admit the penitent to penitence-for-life, but only God could grant forgiveness. Such a position was not completely new, as Tertullian had criticised Pope Callixtus I's introduction of pardons for adultery. Even Saint Hippolytus was inclined towards severity, and laws were promulgated in many places and at various times to punish determined sinners with excommunication ending at the hour of death or even refusing them communion in the hour of death.\nAccording to Cyprian, the gravity of this position was not in its cruelty or injustice but in the negation of the church's power in such cases to give absolution. Cyprian (Letter LXXV) conceded that Novatian affirmed the baptismal question: \"Do you believe in the remission of sins and in the life eternal, through the Holy Church?\" However, because Novatian refused to recognize Cornelius as the rightful successor to Peter's throne, Cyprian argued that Novatian was a schismatic; and to Cyprian, who had to contend with a comparably lenient faction in Carthage, schismatics who compromised the unity of the Church were worse than apostates.\nPapal candidacy and excommunication.\nIn March 251, with the emperor Decius's death, the persecution began to subside and the Roman community seized the opportunity to nominate a successor to Fabian. Although Novatian was the pre-eminent theologian in Rome, and had a hand in running the Church after the death of Fabian, the moderate Roman aristocrat Cornelius was elected. Those who supported a more rigorist position had Novatian consecrated bishop and refused to recognize Cornelius as Bishop of Rome.\nCornelius and Novatian each sent messengers out to the churches to announce their elections and seek support. Saint Cyprian's correspondence tells of an accurate investigation carried out at the end of the Council of Carthage (251), which resulted in the whole African episcopate backing Cornelius. Even Saint Dionysius of Alexandria sided with Cornelius and with this influential support, he soon consolidated his position. However, for some time the church was divided between the two competing popes. Saint Cyprian writes that Novatian \"took over\" (Letter LXIX, 8) and sent new epistles to many cities to get them to accept his election. Although all the provinces and all the cities held bishops of venerable age, pure faith and proven virtue, who had been proscribed during the persecution, Cyprian writes (Letter LV, 24) that Novatian dared to replace them with new bishops he had created himself.\nMeanwhile, in October 251, Cornelius had called a council of 60 bishops (probably all those from Italy and the neighbouring territories) in which Novatian was excommunicated. The bishops unable to attend added their signatures to the council's closing document, which was sent to Antioch and all the other main churches. However, Novatian still found supporters among Christians still in prison, such as Maximus, Urbanus and Nicostratus. Dionysius and Cyprian, however, wrote to them and convinced them to support Cornelius. At the beginning of the dispute between Novatian and Cornelius, it took the form of a simple question of a schism, the argument of Cyprian's first letters about Novatian (XLIV-XLVIII, 1) focusing on who was the legitimate occupant of St. Peter's throne. After a couple of months, this changed, with Cyprian (Letter LIV) finding it necessary to send his book \"De lapsis\" and letter LV to Rome, with the latter being the first document to speak of the \"heresy of Novatian\". Several theologians have subsequently viewed Novatian as a proto protestant.\nNovatian died in 258, probably during Valerian's persecutions, in the same year as his opponent Cyprian."}
{"id": "761904", "revid": "318802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761904", "title": "Reef triggerfish", "text": "The reef triggerfish (Rhinecanthus rectangulus), also known as the rectangular triggerfish, wedgetail triggerfish or by its Hawaiian name (, meaning 'triggerfish with a snout like a pig', also spelled humuhumunukunukuapua'a or just humuhumu for short), is one of several species of triggerfish. It is found in coral reefs in the entirety of the Western Pacific Ocean from North to South and Eastern Central Pacific. It is also found in the Indian Ocean from East to West and the Southeast Atlantic Ocean. It exists in 0 to 50 meters in depth.\nDescription.\nIt has a small second dorsal spine which is used to lock its main spine into an upright position. When sheltering in a small crevice, this locking helps protect the fish against extraction by a predator.\nThe reef triggerfish is characterized by having a noticeably large snout and blue lips that resemble that of a pig's snout. It has strong teeth and a terminal mouth which help aid in scraping food off surfaces. Along the dorsal side and anterior end of the fish, it has an orange-brown coloration and a white belly. The reef triggerfish has 3 dorsal spines, 22\u201325 dorsal rays, no anal spines, and 20\u201322 anal soft rays. The soft dorsal fins, anal fins, and pectoral fins have a pale white coloration to it. The caudal fin has a cloudy murky color.\nThe reef triggerfish is commonly confused with its two closest living relatives the lagoon triggerfish and picasso triggerfish.\nFeeding.\nThe reef triggerfish has a terminal mouth that sits directly at the end of its snout. It has heavy teeth and incisors, and most of its food content is algae that is scraped off surfaces. It also feeds on crustaceans such as isopods from the sandy ocean floors. When foraging for food it remains close to its home or forages in shallow reefs away from living coral. This fish is considered a facultative omnivore because while it eats plants and animals it can sustain itself on a diet of either.\nSounds.\nThe reef triggerfish is recorded to make four distinct sounds that have been categorized as grinding, drumming, grunting, and snapping. Attached is a recording of what drumming sounds are.\nThe grinding sounds are heard when eating. This is thought to be a signal used to indicate to other reef triggerfish that the territory is theirs. It is also believed that it is used to advertise their territories to attract females.\nDrumming sounds occur by flapping the pelvic fins from the sonic membrane creating a vibration connection to the swim bladder. The swim bladder acts as a chamber to produce low and high-frequency sounds. Drum rates increase when there are predators around which can serve as an antipredation function. These drumming sounds are similar to grunting sounds which both involve the use of the swim bladder. Grunts are identical to that of a pig grunt and are mostly audible and recorded when physically holding the fish.\nSnaps occur by the rapid extensions and retraction of the jaw. Audibly there are no real differences between a snap and a grinding sound however they occur at different frequencies and settings. The snaps are most observed during conspecific interactions such as territorial conflict. Although the true meaning of the snaps remains a mystery reef triggerfish show no signs of kin selection.\nSwimming.\nFish in the Balistidae family, like the reef triggerfish, have unique and adaptive swimming motions. Triggerfish are thought to have low swimming maneuvers to compensate for such behavior there are morphological adaptations. These fish have thick skin to aid in predation evasion. While swimming at low speeds their flexibility in dorsal and anal fins makes it capable for them to exhibit balistiform locomotion. Within these fins, they are also able to independently move them and generate their own thrust allowing them to move in all sorts of directions including backwards and hover in place.\nThe muscle of reef triggerfish are red which are ideal for fish that are constantly on the move, much like this species of triggerfish. Since this fish is always hunting for prey, foraging, and defending its territory. They also have white muscle that is effective in quick bursts of movement and helps aid them in complex maneuvers.\nLife history.\nWhile there is limited direct information on reproductive modes and strategies for the reef triggerfish behaviors within triggerfish overlap one another. Examining the reproductive behavior of the picasso triggerfish one conclusion that can be drawn is that reef triggerfish exhibit similar behaviors.\nBoth female and male picasso triggerfish are territorial in space for foraging and egg spawning. While the female's criteria is based on the amount of food resources, low predation, and space that is available, a male's territory is determined by dominance. In the male's case, a haremic mating system is placed where the more dominant males have more access to female mates. This is meant to increase the reproductive success of males however, while defending a female it can leave other females vulnerable to other males decreasing the reproductive success of the original male.\nMales will generally invest more energy and resources in physical growth rather than reproduction. Females will invest more in reaching sexual maturity than halting physical growth. The difference in these life strategies reveals that females are smaller in size compared to males, but also an age difference.\nConservation status.\nCurrently under the IUCN Red List, the reef triggerfish is listed as least concern. Although because the reef triggerfish is found to live in coral reefs there are still many threats that may present themselves in the future. Currently one major threat is that of global warming and its effects on coral reefs which decrease oxygen levels and can increase hypoxia in reef triggerfish. However, one study found that reef triggerfish can tolerate high levels of hypoxia.\nHawaii state fish.\nThe reef triggerfish was designated the official fish of Hawaii in 1985, but due to an expiration of a Hawaiian state law after five years, it ceased to be the state fish in 1990. On April 17, 2006, bill HB1982 was presented to the Governor of Hawaii, which permanently reinstated the reef triggerfish () as the state fish of Hawaii. The bill passed into law on May 2, 2006.\nThe reef triggerfish also holds cultural values to the Hawaiian natives although it is not endemic to the Hawaiian waters. This triggerfish is thought to be connected to the Hawaiian pig god Kamapua'a. Kamapua'a was notorious for his violent behaviors. He ended up marrying the fire goddess Pele but because of his behavior they began fighting. Pele fought with lava and Kamapua'a with control over the ocean waters. Pele requested the help of the underworld and other gods, and together they drove Kamapua'a over a cliff where he fell into the ocean water becoming the reef triggerfish. The fish's thick skin is meant to symbolize the armor needed to swim past the waves of Pele.\nIn popular culture.\nThe Hawaiian name of the triggerfish is mentioned in multiple songs such as the 1933 song \"My Little Grass Shack in Kealakekua, Hawaii\" by Ted Fio Rito includes the line \"...where the go swimming by...\" It is also featured prominently in the Disney Channel Original Movie \"High School Musical 2\" with a song of the same name. In \"Hawaii - Here We Come\", the fourth episode of \"Top Cat\", Benny reads a brochure about his upcoming Hawaiian vacation and asks Top Cat, \"What's a humma-humma-nooka-nooka-apu-ah-ah?\" It is also mentioned in Mortal Kombat 11 by The Joker as an insult to Scorpion regarding his color scheme."}
{"id": "761907", "revid": "51944982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761907", "title": "Catalan orthography", "text": "The Catalan and Valencian orthographies encompass the spelling and punctuation of standard Catalan (set by the IEC) and Valencian (set by the AVL). There are also several adapted variants to the peculiarities of local dialects of Insular Catalan (Alguerese and the Balearic subdialects).\nHistory.\nThe history of the Catalan and Valencian orthographies shows a singularity in regard to the other Romance languages.\u00a0These have been mostly developed from Latin, adapting them to their own phonetic particularities.\u00a0It had been a gradual and slow process through centuries until the creation of the Academies in the 18th century that fixed the orthography from their language dominant variety.\nIn the case of Catalan and Valencian, the mediaeval orthography had a noticeable homogeneity.\u00a0The Royal Chancellery set a unitary written model in several fields.\u00a0Thus, Ramon Muntaner expressed in his Chronicle (1325\u20131328) that the Catalans are the largest group with a single language, since all the Romance-speaking regions had very divided languages like the difference that exists between Catalans and Aragonese.\nIn the 16th century, just after the Golden Age, the split of Catalans started.\u00a0With the isolation of the Royal Court and several political events, the unitary linguistic consciousness and the shared cultural tradition broke off. The production became more dialectal.\nIn the 19th century, the recovery of the unity emerged, beginning with the orthography.\u00a0Institutions like the \"Acad\u00e8mia de Bones Lletres\" or the Floral Games were in the middle of several orthographic dilemmas.\nThe orthographic norms of Catalan were first defined officially in the First Internationals Congress of the Catalan Language, held in Barcelona in October 1906.\u00a0Subsequently, the Philological Section of the \"Institut d'Estudis Catalans\" (IEC, founded in 1911) published the \"Normes ortogr\u00e0fiques\" in 1913 under the direction of Antoni Maria Alcover and Pompeu Fabra.\u00a0Despite some opposition, the spelling system was adopted immediately and became widespread enough that, in 1932, Valencian writers and intellectuals gathered in Castell\u00f3 to make a formal adoption of the so-called \"Normes de Castell\u00f3\", a set of guidelines following Pompeu Fabra's Catalan language norms.\nIn 1917, Fabra published an Orthographic Dictionary following the orthographic norms of the IEC. In 1931\u20131932 the \"Diccionari General de la Llengua Catalana\" (General Dictionary of the Catalan language) appeared.\u00a0 In 1995, a new normative dictionary, the Dictionary of the Catalan Language of the Institute of Catalan Studies (DIEC), marked a new milestone in the orthographic fixation of the language, in addition to the incorporation of neologisms and modern uses of the language.\nOn the 24th October 2016, the IEC published a new orthography for Catalan, the , which outlined several modifications, including a reduced number of monosyllabic words that take an acute or grave diacritic for reasons of disambiguation. Thus, the disyllabic word is now generally spelled ; the monosyllabic words (\"dry\", pronounced in Central Catalan) and (\"fold, wrinkle\", pronounced ) are both written after the reform. Discretionary use of a diacritic is possible if the context is not sufficient for disambiguation.\nAlphabet.\nLike those of many other Romance languages, the Catalan and Valencian alphabet derives from the Latin alphabet and is largely based on the respective language's phonology.\nThe Catalan and Valencian alphabet consists of the 26 letters of the ISO basic Latin alphabet:\nThe following letter-diacritic combinations are used, but they do not constitute distinct letters in the alphabet: \"\u00c0 \u00e0\", \"\u00c9 \u00e9\", \"\u00c8 \u00e8\", \"\u00cd \u00ed\", \"\u00cf \u00ef\", \"\u00d3 \u00f3\", \"\u00d2 \u00f2\", \"\u00da \u00fa\", \"\u00dc \u00fc\" and \"\u00c7 \u00e7\" (though the Catalan keyboard includes the letter \"\u00c7\" as a separate key). \"K k\" and \"W w\" are used only in loanwords. Outside loanwords, the letters \"Q q\" and \"Y y\" appear only in the digraphs \"qu\", \"q\u00fc\" and \"ny\". However, \"Y\" was used until the official orthography was established in 1913, when it was replaced with \"I\", except in the digraph \"ny\" and loanwords. Some Catalan surnames conserve the letter \"y\" and the word-final digraph \"ch\" (pronounced ), e. g. , .\nThe following table shows the letters and their names in Standard Catalan (IEC) and Standard Valencian (AVL):\nThe names \"efa\" (), \"ela\" (), \"ema\" (), \"ena\" (), \"erra\" (), and \"essa\" () are also used in certain speeches of Valencian.\nThe names \"be alta\" (\"high b\") and \"ve baixa\" (\"low v\") are used by speakers who do not distinguish the phonemes and . Speakers that do distinguish them use the simple names \"be\" and \"ve\".\nSpelling and pronunciation.\nCatalan is a pluricentric language; the pronunciation of some of the letters is different in Central Eastern Catalan (IEC) and Valencian (AVL). Apart from those variations, the pronunciation of most consonants is fairly straightforward and is similar to French, Occitan or Portuguese pronunciation.\nSpelling-to-sound correspondences.\nThe following lists includes a quick pronunciation of letters in standard Catalan and Valencian, for an in-depth view see attached main article on top of this section.\n! colspan=\"4\" | Consonants\n! rowspan=\"2\" | Spelling\n! colspan=\"2\" | IPA\n! rowspan=\"2\" | Example\n! Catalan\n! Valencian"}
{"id": "761909", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761909", "title": "LSASS", "text": ""}
{"id": "761910", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761910", "title": "The Higher Technical Examination Programme (HTX)", "text": ""}
{"id": "761912", "revid": "46144231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761912", "title": "Brave New World (Iron Maiden album)", "text": "Brave New World is the twelfth studio album by English heavy metal band Iron Maiden, released on 29 May 2000. It was their first studio release since the return of longtime lead singer Bruce Dickinson (who left in 1993) and guitarist Adrian Smith (who left in 1990) in 1999, as well as the band's first studio recording as a six-piece, as Janick Gers, who replaced Smith in 1990, remained with the band.\nThe album artwork and title song are references to the novel of the same name written by Aldous Huxley. The upper half of the artwork was created by Derek Riggs, with the bottom half by digital artist Steve Stone.\nThe songs \"The Wicker Man\" and \"Out of the Silent Planet\" were both released as singles. The promotional radio release of \"The Wicker Man\" featured extra vocals in the chorus not present in any other versions of the song.\nThe Brave New World Tour was the tour in support of the album, during which the show at Rock in Rio was recorded and later released as a live album and video.\n\"Brave New World\" peaked at No. 7 in the UK Albums Chart, and has since been certified Gold. In the United States, it debuted at No. 39 on the \"Billboard\" 200, and registered over 307,000 sales on the Nielsen SoundScan system in 2008.\nSongs, composition and live performances.\nMost of the songs were written before The Ed Hunter Tour and were later recorded at Guillaume Tell Studios, Paris. It was the first album the band would record with producer Kevin Shirley, and the first that they would record live in the studio.\nAccording to an interview with Adrian Smith, \"The Nomad\", \"Dream of Mirrors\", and \"The Mercenary\" were originally written for 1998's \"Virtual XI\", and former vocalist Blaze Bayley claimed to have provided some lyrics for \"Dream of Mirrors\", but was not credited. According to Steve Harris, work had also begun on \"Blood Brothers\" during that period, but it was not completed at the time.\n\"Brave New World\" was the release's only song to reappear on the Dance of Death World Tour, the next tour in support of a studio release. None of the tracks from the album were played during the A Matter of Life and Death Tour, although many returned throughout The Final Frontier World Tour, with \"The Wicker Man\", \"Ghost of the Navigator\", the title track, and \"Blood Brothers\" being played during the 2010 leg. \"Blood Brothers\" returned for The Book of Souls World Tour and \"The Wicker Man\" also returned for the Legacy of the Beast World Tour.\nThe song \"Blood Brothers\", written by Steve Harris for his late father, was dedicated to Ronnie James Dio throughout the 2010 leg of The Final Frontier World Tour, following his death on 16 May. On the 2011 leg of the tour starting in Australia, \"Blood Brothers\" would then be dedicated to the victims and friends and family of the band members and audience who were affected by the 2011 Christchurch earthquake on 22 February. As the tour progressed, the song was also dedicated to the victims of the 2011 T\u014dhoku earthquake and tsunami, as well as the revolts in Egypt and Libya and, later, the victims of the 2011 Norway attacks. A live performance of the song from 2012's \"En Vivo!\" was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock/Metal Performance on 6 December 2012.\nCritical reception.\nReviews for the album were generally positive. Critics were especially warm towards the return of Bruce Dickinson and Adrian Smith to the band compared to the previous two releases which featured Blaze Bayley on vocals. \"Kerrang!\" described it as \"truly towering. Majestic. Bombastic. Titanic. So gloriously in-yer-face you can almost feel its hot breath up your nostrils.\" Sputnikmusic described it as \"one of the band's top albums; alongside the likes of \"Powerslave\", \"Somewhere in Time\", and \"Piece of Mind\"\" and \"definitely the easiest album to get into since the band's glory days.\" \"Classic Rock\" stated that, while \"it may not take too many strides forward,\" it \"certainly succeeds in reeling back the years to Iron Maiden's heyday.\"\nAllMusic were slightly more critical of the album, describing it as \"no \"Number of the Beast\"\". The website went on to say that \"as comeback albums go, its excellence was undeniable\"; likewise, they gave the album a positive rating.\n\"NME\" were extremely unfavourable towards the release, arguing that the band's past \"dismissal of the outside world, which kept them safe all those years, now leaves them looking rather obsolete\". The magazine also compared the band to more contemporary acts such as Korn and Slipknot and felt Iron Maiden were \"no longer the high priests of the black arts, and seem almost innocent by comparison\". Blabbermouth.net were also negative, stating that the band sound \"tired and uninspired\", and concluding that \"[\"Brave New World\"] will fail to leave a lasting mark on the face of the current metal scene.\"\nIn 2020, it was named one of the 20 best metal albums of 2000 by \"Metal Hammer\" magazine.\nPersonnel.\nProduction and performance credits are adapted from the album liner notes."}
{"id": "761916", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761916", "title": "Serbian spruce", "text": ""}
{"id": "761921", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761921", "title": "Michele Novaro", "text": "Michele Novaro (; 23 December 1818 \u2013 20 October 1885) was an Italian composer.\nNovaro was born on 23 December 1818 in Genoa, where he studied composition and singing at the Scuola Gratuita di Canto (now the Genoa Conservatory). Novaro is mostly known as the composer of the music of the Italian national anthem, \"Il Canto degli Italiani\" (lyrics by Goffredo Mameli), better known in Italy as \"Inno di Mameli\" (Mameli's Hymn).\nNovaro was a convinced liberal and offered his compositional talents to the unification cause without deriving any personal benefits. He died poor on 20 October 1885, after a life riddled with financial and health difficulties. He was buried at the Monumental Cemetery of Staglieno in Genoa."}
{"id": "761922", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761922", "title": "Edwin Nourse", "text": ""}
{"id": "761923", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761923", "title": "Edwin G. Nourse", "text": ""}
{"id": "761924", "revid": "49938556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761924", "title": "Humuhumunukunukuapuaa", "text": ""}
{"id": "761925", "revid": "29463730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761925", "title": "Buckman Bridge", "text": "The Henry Holland Buckman Bridge carries I-295 West Beltway traffic over the St. Johns River in Jacksonville, Florida. It was named for Henry Holland Buckman, a prominent legislator and attorney who was instrumental in establishing the Florida state road system.\nHistory.\nBefore the opening of the bridge (1970), road travel across the St. Johns River from Orange Park to Mandarin was longer and more complex. One route involved driving north to downtown Jacksonville, crossing the Fuller Warren Bridge, then driving south, a distance of nearly and an hour of travel time. Another option was to drive south to Green Cove Springs and across the wooden planks of the Shands Bridge, almost twice the distance of the northern route.\nThe first public hearing about the bridge was held in July 1963. In April 1964, after intense discussion, the decision was made to place the bridge in Duval County, just north of the Clay County line. Construction began, but the first concrete pilings exploded days after they were poured. Investigation revealed that the heat generated from the curing concrete increased Anaerobic digestion by bacteria in the brackish water and generated methane gas. The engineers were forced to change their construction method.\nDetails.\nThe bridge is of beam-type construction, approximately in length, and travels roughly east\u2013west. The eastbound (carrying I-295 South traffic) and westbound (carrying I-295 North traffic) lanes are built on separate bridge structures. Average daily traffic in 1996 was estimated at 78,000 vehicles. In 1995, the bridge was expanded from two lanes in each direction with partial breakdown lanes to four lanes in each direction with full breakdown lanes. A Florida Department of Transportation study in September 1997 counted 110,743 vehicles. With busy exits within a of either end of the bridge, rush-hour backups are typical. Downtown Jacksonville and Naval Air Station Jacksonville are visible from the bridge to the north. On a clear day, the Seminole Electric power plant in Palatka can be seen to the south of the bridge.\nClosings.\nWhile rarely closed for weather, two situations have made shutdown necessary: Tropical Storm Fay and prolonged freezing conditions. During tropical storms or hurricanes, sustained winds of over are considered hazardous and warrant closure. On December 23, 1989 the temperature dropped to 26\u00b0 and precipitation changed from rain to sleet to snow, which lasted for several days. All the bridges in Jacksonville were impassable and closed for more than 24 hours, except for the original St. Elmo W. Acosta Bridge, which was first opened to traffic in 1921."}
{"id": "761927", "revid": "51904761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761927", "title": "Edwin Griswold Nourse", "text": "Edwin Griswold Nourse (May 20, 1883 \u2013 April 7, 1974) was an American economist who served as the first chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers from 1946 to 1949. \nEarly life and education.\nNourse was born in Lockport, New York, Nourse moved to a western suburb of Chicago at the age of four months, and considered himself a Midwesterner. His father worked in the city as a supervisor of public school music. His sister, Alice Tisdale Hobart, went on to become a bestselling novelist. In high school Nourse enjoyed English and history, and after spending a year at the Louis Institute, went on to Cornell University with an interest in civil engineering. In 1903, he was caught in a wave of typhoid fever that hit campus; upon his return he decided to simply get his A.B., but also took several classes at the College of Agriculture.\nCareer.\nFollowing college, Nourse taught for two years in high school, spent a year on graduate studies, and then taught at the Wharton School, where he conceived of agricultural economics. From there he transited through the University of South Dakota, the University of Arkansas, Iowa State College, and on to the University of Chicago, where he received his Ph.D. in 1915 for the dissertation \"The Chicago Produce Market: A Study of Market Mechanism as a Factor in Price Determination\". He continued to study and write about agricultural cooperation:\nIt is ridiculous to assert that agriculture is too tough a nut for the corporation to crack in this day of consolidation of railroads, factories, bakeries, milk distribution, cleaning and pressing, and even beauty parlors.\nNourse was a friend of Harold Moulton, the first president of the Brookings Institution, and in 1923 he convinced Nourse to come work on the agriculture side of the Institute of Economics. He remained there until 1946, moving from the head of the agriculture division to director of Institute of Economics in 1929 and then vice president in 1942.\nTwo years later in July he met President Harry S. Truman for the first time by way of Charles Griffith Ross to speak about becoming member of the newly created Council of Economic Advisors; Nourse subsequently resigned from Brookings to become its first chairman, with Leon Keyserling as his vice-chairman and John D. Clark as a member.\nNourse was an elected member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society."}
{"id": "761929", "revid": "1672698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761929", "title": "James Francis Edward Keith", "text": "James Francis Edward Keith (in later years \"Jakob von Keith\"; 11 June 1696\u00a0\u2013 14 October 1758) was a Scottish soldier and \"Generalfeldmarschall\" of the Royal Prussian Army. As a Jacobite he took part in a failed attempt to restore the Stuart Monarchy to Britain. When this failed, he fled to Europe, living in France, and then Spain. He joined the Spanish and eventually the Russian armies and fought in the Anglo-Spanish War and the Russo-Swedish War. In the latter he participated in the conquest of Finland and became its viceroy. Subsequently, he participated in the \"coup d'\u00e9tat\" that put Elizabeth of Russia on the throne.\nHe subsequently served in the Prussian army under Frederick the Great, where he distinguished himself in several campaigns. He died during the Seven Years' War at the Battle of Hochkirch. He received the Black Eagle Order and is memorialised on the Equestrian statue of Frederick the Great.\nEarly life.\nKeith was born on 11 June 1696 at Inverugie Castle near Peterhead, the second son of Mary Drummond and William Keith. His father, was the 9th Earl Marischal of Scotland, was a Knight of the Order of the Thistle, and a member of the Privy Council of James Francis Edward Stuart. His mother, Mary Drummond, was daughter of James Drummond, 4th Earl of Perth (1648\u20131716), and his first wife, Lady Jane Douglas, the fourth daughter of William Douglas, 1st Marquess of Douglas.\nHis parents, committed Jacobites, named him after the Old Pretender. He and his brother George (1692/93\u20131778) were educated by a kinsman, the historian and bishop Robert Keith. After briefly attending the University of Aberdeen, James traveled to study at the University of Edinburgh in preparation for the legal profession. Keith was a keen freemason.\nJacobitism.\nIn his autobiography, Keith makes it clear that his dissatisfaction in Great Britain began with the failure of Queen Anne to settle the Scottish succession on her half-brother James. The placement of a foreign, German family on the throne of the land led to widespread discontent in Scotland. On either 3 or 20 September 1715, he and his brother had stood side by side to proclaim James Stuart, son of the deposed King James VII and pretender to the Scottish throne, as King of Scotland.\nKeith was present later that year at the Battle of Sheriffmuir on 9 November. Subsequently, when the Earl of Mar failed to join up with the English Jacobites and the Catholics in the south, Keith realised that the end of this effort was near. The Jacobite effort was briefly resuscitated that year by the arrival of James himself, who landed at Peterhead at the end of December 1715, but when the Jacobites realised that James had travelled on a fishing trawler with two servants, not with an armada bringing the army the Jacobites hoped for, their morale sank even further. Eventually, after Government forces pursued the Jacobites almost to the Isle of Skye, a French Navy warship picked up 100 officers, including Keith, and took them to St. Pol de Leon in Brittany. His activities in this Jacobite rising of 1715 compelled him to remain on the Continent.\nEventually, Keith went to Paris, where he had relatives. He spent the better part of a year living hand to mouth by selling the personal items he had brought with him, mostly horse furnishings. Although he could have asked any of his relatives for assistance, but, as he explained in his unfinished memoirs, \"...\u00a0I was then either so bashful or vain, that I wou'd [sic] not own the want I was in.\" Eventually he received a gift of 1000 livres from Mary of Modena, mother of the Pretender and this, plus some support from home and an allowance from James enabled him to spend the rest of the year at the university. In 1717, he received a commission as colonel of cavalry and was ordered to prepare to go to Scotland again, but the plan, contingent upon support from the Charles XII of Sweden, was discovered and thwarted, and he continued at the university. Later that year, in June, he met Peter I of Russia, and offered the Tsar his sword, being, as Keith considered it \"high time\u00a0... to quitte [sic] the Academy and endeavor to establish myself somewhere\u00a0...\" The Tsar apparently saw no need for the sword of a youth.\n1719 Uprising.\nWhen Keith was finally convinced to leave Paris (he had fallen in love), he journeyed to Spain with his brother. They had to deceive the customs agents at the borders about their destination, purpose and origins, Spain being actively engaged in trying to secure the French throne for Philip V in the War of the Quadruple Alliance. Keith and his brother journeyed to Madrid, raising funds for an army for James, arranging for its transport to Scotland, and communicating the king's designs to the various Scottish chieftains throughout Europe. At one point in his adventures in Spain, he carried a small note from the James Butler, 2nd Duke of Ormonde and 18,000 crowns to purchase frigates destined to carry an army to Scotland; he returned to France quietly, leaving his brother in Spain to sail with troops to the coast of Scotland. Trying to return to Paris, while in Bordeaux, he masqueraded as a friend's servant so he could acquire some horses to get back to Paris.\nIn the course of communicating with Jacobite sympathizers in Spain and France, Keith realised that there was a considerable division of factions among James's supporters. The sides all wanted Keith to communicate one thing, or another, often contradictory, to the king, all of which Keith considered favoured their private ends, not the needs of the king or the goals of the campaign. Eventually, the Jacobites embarked for the Isle of Lewis on 19 March in a small ship, from the mouth of the Seine, and set course to round the Orkney Islands The wind forced them off course until, after 24 March, they had altered course and managed to slip past a squadron of Royal Navy men-of-war which were transporting troops from Ireland to England: news of a conspiracy had reached London by then, and the Government had prepared for the uprising.\nThe Jacobite efforts were further complicated by bickering among the chiefs as to who should take command. Initially, this was awarded to the Marischall, Keith's brother, but the following day, after a long speech by William Murray, Marquess of Tullibardine \"which\", Keith later wrote, \"no body understood but himself,\" Murray presented his own commission as lieutenant general, outranking the Marischall's, whose commission of command was only as major general. There was, apparently, considerable subsequent disagreement about how the rebellion should proceed, some wishing to wait for the Duke of Ormonde's 500 Spanish marines on the way from Spain. Knowing that the Government forces had discovered their landing place, Keith's brother convinced Murray to disembark all the troops they had and send the Spanish ships home; the Government forces would inevitably blockade the ships in the harbor and losing the ships would endanger their relationship with Spain.\nUnfortunately for the rebellion, Ormonde's fleet had been disbanded by a storm near Galicia, and the soonest the Spanish would raise another one would be the following spring. Time to mount any rebellion was running short. The Jacobites were poorly armed and even more poorly provisioned and the Government force was three days march away. The nearby clans made an effort to raise additional troops, but gathered only about 1,000. The Government forces approached with four regiments of foot and a detachment of a fifth regiment, plus 150 dragoons. The Jacobite position was secure enough, but on 10 June, the Government force came out of the mountains and attacked; in short order, the Royal Navy captured Eilean Donan Castle and, at the Battle of Glen Shiel, the Government forces defeated the small Jacobite army. The Jacobites decided that they should disperse and the Spaniards surrender.\nKeith spent several months lurking in the mountains and, in early September, embarked for Holland from Peterhead. Upon trying to cross France to reach Spain, the brothers were arrested at Sedan, and ordered to prison. Keith had in his pocket a pair of commissions from the King of Spain, items which would cause them great trouble, but his jailers did not search him, nor ask for his name. For safety, \"pretending a certain necessity, [he] threw them in to a place needless to be named.\"\nSpanish service.\nAfter leaving France, Keith eventually obtained a colonelcy in the Spanish army as part of the Irish Brigade, then commanded by the Duke of Ormonde. He then fought in the failed Siege of Gibraltar.\nFinding his Protestantism a barrier to promotion in Catholic Spain, he obtained a recommendation from the King of Spain to Peter II of Russia.\nImperial Russian service.\nIn Imperial Russian service, Keith was initially assigned to command two regiments of foot belonging to Vasily Vladimirovich Dolgorukov's brigade, he asked for a delay of three months in which he could learn the language and practices of the Russian service. He took the time not only to learn the language, but also to learn the Court and its intricate politics. His first mentor there, James Fitz-James Stuart, 2nd Duke of Berwick and Duke of Liria, fell into a quarrel with both Dolgorukov and Count Matueof.\nHis commander there, Peter Lacy, had fled Ireland after the Williamite War. He was also one of the first Freemasons active in Russia, as a master of a lodge in Saint Petersburg in 1732\u201334. He also participated in Elizabeth of Russia's seizure of power in Petersburg. He received the Imperial Order of St Andrew.\nDuring the Russo-Swedish War of 1741\u20131743, Keith was briefly \"de facto\" Vice-Roy of Finland and responsible for the occupying Russian forces, James Keith convened the estates of southwestern Finland on 8 (or 18) September. He proved adept as a capable and liberal civil administrator. In late 1742, Keith was succeeded in the leadership of civil administration of Finland (now based at Turku) by the new Governor-General, Johannes Balthasar von Campenhausen.\nPrussian service.\nSeven Years' War.\nDuring the Seven Years' War, Keith held high command in the Prussian army. In 1756, he commanded the troops covering the investment of Pirna, and distinguished himself at Lobositz. The battle at Lobositz was a particularly difficult situation. Frederick, in what was his typical manner, dismissed Austrian capability; he sent his columns directly into a valley surrounded by Croatian sharpshooters.\nThe failure of his troops to make any headway against Lacy's troops, and indeed their apparent collapse, caused Frederick to feel the battle lost, and to leave the field. Upon his departure, command devolved to Keith. Initially Keith made no headway against the Austrian front, but when Lacy was wounded, his subordinates did not have the same command vision, and Keith was able to make some progress against the Austrian front, actually rolling up the Austrian lines to the north and south of Lobositz. The overall Austrian commander, George Browne, had never intended to make this a major battle, and so withdrew the entire force to Budin, approximately away.\nIn 1757, he commanded at the siege of Prague and later, in this same campaign, he defended Leipzig against a greatly superior force. He was also present at Rossbach, and, while the king was fighting at Leuthen, joined with Prince Henry's force in Saxony.\nHochkirch.\nIn 1758, Keith took a prominent part in the Moravian campaign, after which he withdrew from the army to restore his broken health. He returned in time for the autumn campaign in the Lausitz region, and was killed on 14 October 1758 at the battle of Hochkirch. He had been shot several times; the final shot knocked him off his horse into his groom's arms. The groom was dragged away, leaving Keith's body behind.\nAlthough stripped bare by the time the Austrians found him on the battlefield the following day, he was recognised by Lacy, the son of Peter Lacy, his old commander in Russia. The Austrians gave him a decent burial on the field; his groom, who had crept back to the battlefield, observed this and marked the location. Keith was transferred shortly afterwards by Frederick to the garrison church of Berlin.\nRelationship with Frederick.\nWhile at the University of Edinburgh, James Keith acquired a taste for literature and learning that secured him the esteem of the most distinguished savants of Europe. His experiences in the Jacobite uprisings, and his observations of the contentious competition between and among the clan chieftains, offered him the opportunity early to learn the pitfalls of command, the arts of negotiation, and the importance of listening and diplomacy. This skill was further sharped during the intrigues of the Russian court, where he served for 17 years. He displayed in numerous campaigns the calm, intelligent and watchful valour which was his chief characteristic.\nIn his personal relationships, he demonstrated calmness and loyalty. In this he was the opposite of his father, who had been described as \"very wild, inconstant and passionate.\" In Finland, he met Eva Merthen. Although they never married, they had several children.\nKeith became one of Frederick's chief allies and friends. Keith developed a game of chess for Frederick, life-sized, that the two would play; Frederick also travelled \"incognito\" with Keith throughout Germany and Hungary.\nAt his final battle, he had remonstrated with the king about establishing the camp at Hochkirch, with the Austrians looming in the heights around them, pointing out that staying in the village was suicide. \"If the Austrians leave us unmolested in this camp\", Keith told the king, \"they deserve to be hanged.\" Frederick reportedly replied, \"it is to be hoped they are more afraid of us than of the gallows.\" Frederick was devastated by Keith's death at Hochkirch.\nMemorials.\nMany memorials were erected to him by the king, Prince Henry, and others. \nHe was immortalised in song as Feldmarschall von Keith in the ballad \"Fridericus Rex\" by Willibald Alexis, which was set to music by Carl Loewe in 1837 and became the basis in the 1860s for Ferdinand Radek's Fridericus Rex Grenadier March in which his surname is mispronounced as \"Kite.\"\nHe is memorialised on the Equestrian statue of Frederick the Great (1851). \nIn 1889, the 22nd Infantry Regiment (1st Upper Silesian) was named after him. Hochkirch erected a stone tablet inscribed to Keith outside its church, to stand with others dedicated to the victims of Prussia's defeat by Austria on 14 October 1758. \nThere is also a statue to Keith in Peterhead, Aberdeenshire, which was given to the town by William I, King of Prussia, in 1868."}
{"id": "761930", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761930", "title": "Frank Erwin Center", "text": "The Frank C. Erwin Jr. Center (originally Special Events Center) was a multi-purpose arena located on the campus of the University of Texas at Austin in Austin, Texas. It was also sometimes referred to as \"The Drum\" or \"The Superdrum\", owing to its round, drum-like appearance from outside (not to be confused with Big Bertha, the large bass drum used by the University of Texas marching band).\nThe multi-purpose facility hosted entertainment events and was the home court for the Texas Longhorns men's and women's basketball programs until 2022, when it was replaced by the Moody Center. The Erwin Center was located at the southeastern corner of the UT central campus and was bounded on the east by Interstate 35.\nHistory.\nBuilt to replace Gregory Gymnasium as the men's and women's basketball teams' home arena, the Special Events Center was completed in 1977 for a total cost of $34 million. The Texas men's basketball team opened the events center on November 29, 1977, with an 83\u201376 victory over the Oklahoma Sooners. UT undertook extensive renovations of the facility from 2001 to 2003 at a cost of $55 million, adding, among other things, new and renovated seating, new video and sound systems, new lighting, and 28 suites.\nThe building was named for former UT Board of Regents member Frank Erwin, who as a regent was very controversial due to his hostility towards the burgeoning on-campus, political counterculture movement of the late 1960s and was directly involved in the arrest of protesting students and the purging of what he deemed as \"unpatriotic\" faculty. Originally known as the Special Events Center, the facility was renamed in 1980 to honor Erwin, who died that same year.\nA two-level layout (the lower \"arena\" and upper \"mezzanine\") accommodated up to 16,540 spectators for basketball games and up to 17,900 spectators for concerts. The inner ring of the arena averaged around 20 rows deep, while the mezzanine is slightly deeper at around 24 rows. The size of the arena's inner ring was highly dependent on the event being hosted.\nReplacement and demolition.\nIn 2013, the Dell Medical Center, a $334 million teaching hospital for the university, identified the Erwin Center parking lot and the Waller Creek area directly across from the Center as being the site of Phase I of the Dell Center's construction, with the completion of following phases to require the demolition of the Erwin Center.\nIn 2018, the University of Texas and the Oak View Group announced that they had agreed to build a new arena for the Texas Longhorns basketball programs, at a cost of $338 million; the new facility would fill the role that had been played by the Frank Erwin Center. The new arena is the Moody Center, named after the Moody Foundation, which had donated $130 million to University of Texas athletic programs. A groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of Moody Arena was held on the UT campus, just south of Mike A. Myers Soccer Stadium, on December 3, 2019; the new arena was completed in 2022. The Erwin Center hosted its last ticketed event on April 2, 2022; it was a basketball game which featured the Harlem Globetrotters. The newly completed Moody Center opened on April 20, 2022. The final UT graduation ceremonies to take place at the Erwin Center were held on May 20\u201321, 2022; they were the Erwin Center's last scheduled events.\nA year after the closure of the Erwin Center, the UT System Board of Regents unveiled plans for the structure's demolition. The announcement was made on May 1, 2023, and the demolition process began during the following November. The Erwin Center was dismantled in phases, to preserve nearby structures and to facilitate the recycling of materials. The last remaining building supports came down on May 19, 2024, officially marking the end of the Erwin Center with the land to be cleared out completely by September.\nEvents.\nLocated adjacent to downtown Austin, The Erwin Center was generally accepted to be Austin's current premier venue for large public and private events. The center held many events such as concerts, professional wrestling events, bull riding and private banquets.\nThe arena has hosted three UFC mixed martial events: in 2010, in 2014, and in 2018. Legendary professional boxer Miguel Cotto of Puerto Rico had his debut fight there, knocking out Jason Doucet in the first round of a boxing show headlined by a fight between Mexican Jesus Chavez and American Tom Johnson, contest won by Chavez by an eighth-round knockout on February 23, 2001.\nMusic artists such as Taylor Swift, David Bowie, Tina Turner, Lana Del Rey, Ariana Grande, KISS, U2, Bon Jovi, Pearl Jam, Paul McCartney, Def Leppard, George Strait, Garth Brooks, Van Halen, Rush, AC/DC, Pink Floyd, \nPrince, Guns N' Roses, Rod Stewart, Madonna, Whitney Houston, Radiohead, Kanye West, Lady Gaga, Miley Cyrus and many others have performed at the arena.\nThe Erwin Center hosted the semifinals and finals of the University Interscholastic League boys' and girls' basketball playoffs in all five classifications until 2015, when the playoffs moved to San Antonio.\nThe arena also hosted both UT commencement ceremonies and various local high school graduations."}
{"id": "761931", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761931", "title": "Hedi Nouira", "text": ""}
{"id": "761934", "revid": "937705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761934", "title": "James Keith", "text": "James Keith may refer to:"}
{"id": "761935", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761935", "title": "Hedi A. Nouira", "text": ""}
{"id": "761936", "revid": "19569748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761936", "title": "H\u00e9di Amara Nouira", "text": "H\u00e9di Amara Nouira (5 April 1911 \u2013 25 January 1993) was a Tunisian politician. He served as the second prime minister of Tunisia between 1970 and 1980.\nBiography.\nH\u00e9di Nouira was born in Monastir and trained as a lawyer. He served as one of the founders of the Neo-Destour party and was a colleague of Habib Bourguiba. He was imprisoned for anti-colonial activities by the French from 1938 to 1943, but later represented the Neo-Destour during negotiations with France towards Tunisian independence in 1950.\nFollowing independence in 1956, Nouira was appointed as finance minister and was later appointed the governor of the Central Bank of Tunisia in 1958. Following the failure of a short-lived Socialist experiment in the 1960s, Nouira liberalised the economy during the 1970s. In 1970, the then governor of the Central Bank, Nouira was appointed prime minister. The most decisive factor in Nouira's appointment seemed to be his commitment to private initiative as well as his financier's background. \nHaving been named as President Bourguiba's successor in 1974, Nouira's tenure as prime minister saw him increasingly take the roles of the former, who was suffering from ill health. At the same time, he was criticised by workers and dissidents for his harsh stances on labor and opposition to multiparty politics.\nHe retired from politics in 1980 after suffering a stroke. Nouira died on 25 January 1993, after suffering from an undisclosed illness.\nFamily.\nHis younger brother, Habib Nouira, served as Tunisian Ambassador to Iraq, Kuwait, Syria and Egypt."}
{"id": "761937", "revid": "39165258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761937", "title": "Gustav Noske", "text": "Gustav Noske (9 July 1868 \u2013 30 November 1946) was a German politician of the Social Democratic Party (SPD). He served as the first Minister of Defence () of the Weimar Republic between 1919 and 1920. Noske was known for using army and paramilitary forces to suppress the socialist/communist uprisings of 1919.\nEarly life.\nNoske was born on 9 July 1868 in Brandenburg an der Havel, Prussia. He was the son of the weaver Karl Noske (born 1838) and the manual labourer Emma Noske (n\u00e9e Herwig, born 1843). From 1874 to 1882, he went to primary and secondary school ( and ). In 1882 to 1886 he was apprenticed as a basket maker at the and travelled to Halle, Frankfurt, Amsterdam and Liegnitz as a journeyman. In 1884, Noske joined the Social Democratic Party (SPD) and he also became a union member. In 1892, Noske was elected chairman of the Brandenburg SPD. He married Martha Thiel (1872\u20131949) at Brandenburg in 1891. They had one son and two daughters.\nFrom 1897 to 1902, Noske was politically active at the local level and worked as an editor at social democratic newspapers in Brandenburg and K\u00f6nigsberg (). From 1902 to 1918 he was chief editor at the paper in Chemnitz. In the 1907 German federal election, Noske was elected to the Reichstag of the German Empire for the SPD where he remained through 1918 as representative of the Chemnitz Reichstag constituency.\nWithin the SPD he was an expert on military, navy and colonial issues. After 1912, Noske was the Reichstag's co-spokesman for the Navy budget. In 1914, he published a book in which he argued in favour of German colonialism. He was known as a reformist, one of those in the SPD who wanted to achieve their political goals within the existing system, and as someone who was not much interested in fundamental theoretical debates.\nFirst World War.\nDuring the First World War, Noske was part of the centre of the SPD, which also included Friedrich Ebert and Philipp Scheidemann, and supported the war as a defensive measure. Noske supported the war loans, but he also argued in favour of a stronger political position for the Reichstag. In 1916 to 1918, he was the parliamentary speaker of a commission appointed by the government to investigate military procurement and related excess profits by contractors (). In that function, Noske helped to shed light on the business practices involved and to expand the authority of the parliament.\nGerman Revolution and civil war.\nIn October 1918, Noske became a member of the leadership of the SPD Reichstag group. When the Kiel mutiny started in early November, Prince Max von Baden, the new chancellor, sent Noske to Kiel to negotiate an end to the revolt. The mutineers welcomed Noske and elected him as Chairman of the Soldiers' Council, as they considered him\u2014a Social Democrat\u2014to be on their side. Within days he had succeeded in restoring the authority of the officers and in making the mutineers who had remained in Kiel resume their normal duties. Max von Baden and his successor as chancellor, Friedrich Ebert, who was a close personal friend of Noske's, were pleased with Noske's achievement. Noske remained in Kiel until December 1918.\nAs a result of the government's violent response to the revolt by the sailors of the just before Christmas 1918, the representatives of the Independent Social Democrats (USPD) left the revolutionary government of the Council of the People's Deputies () at the end of the month, and Noske was one of two Majority Social Democrats who took their place on 30 December. Within the government Noske was responsible for military affairs.\nOn 5 January 1919, the USPD and the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) called for demonstrations to protest the dismissal of the head of the Berlin police, a USPD member, for supporting the sailors' revolt the preceding Christmas. The demonstration grew into the Spartacist uprising, which had the goal of replacing the national government with a council republic. After the insurgents seized Berlin's city centre and the newspaper district, Ebert attempted to negotiate with them. When the discussions broke down, his major concern was with maintaining internal peace. He ordered the rebellion quashed, and Noske, who was in charge of the Army and Navy, used both regular forces and Freikorps units to end the uprising. Around 165 people lost their lives.\nA few days later, on 15 January 1919, members of the led by Captain Waldemar Pabst abducted and murdered the co-leaders of the KPD, Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg. Previously, Noske had personally ordered that Liebknecht's telephone line be monitored and Liebknecht's every movement be reported to Pabst.\nOn 19 January 1919 elections to the (national assembly) were held. It met in Weimar and on 13 February 1919 the newly elected president Ebert appointed a new government, led by Philipp Scheidemann. Noske became (defence minister).\nOver the first half of 1919 Ebert and Noske repeated what they had done in Berlin throughout the Reich. Left-wing uprisings were crushed by brutal military force, employing both regular army and paramilitary Freikorps.\nAs \"\" in the governments of Philipp Scheidemann and Gustav Bauer, who succeeded Scheidemann as chancellor in June 1919, Noske oversaw the initial reorganisation of the military after the collapse of 1918. Despite substantial misgivings, he ultimately supported signing of the Treaty of Versailles, which severely curtailed the ability of Germany to maintain an effective military. Beginning in the summer of 1919, there were plots by the Reichswehr leadership to seize power in a military coup. Noske was drawn into these discussions. Although he refused offers to serve as a dictator after a putsch, he never took any steps against the officers who made these offers and failed to report their activities to his fellow members of government.\nOn 20 January 1920, the Treaty of Versailles came into force, restricting the German army to 100,000 men or less. On 28 February 1920, Noske, following orders of the Military Inter-Allied Commission of Control, which oversaw Germany's compliance with the Treaty, dissolved the Freikorps \"Ehrhardt\" and \"Loewenfeld\". The highest ranking general of the Reichswehr, Walther von L\u00fcttwitz, refused to comply, resulting in what became known as the Kapp Putsch.\nTo restore order, Noske asked the chief of the in the Reichswehr Ministry, General Hans von Seeckt, to order the regular army to put down the putsch. Von Seeckt refused and the government was forced to flee from Berlin. However, a general strike called by the unions, the Social Democrats, and the government, as well as the refusal of the bureaucracy to recognise the new (self-declared) chancellor Wolfgang Kapp, resulted in a quick collapse of the coup.\nAs one of the conditions for ending the general strike, the unions demanded the resignation of Noske as \"\". Moreover, some within the SPD were unhappy with his conduct during the crisis and deemed him to have been lacking in energy dealing with the putsch. He resigned on 22 March 1920. Otto Gessler of the German Democratic Party succeeded him. Noske would be the last Social Democrat in this position during the Weimar Republic.\nLater career and death.\nNoske was \"Oberpr\u00e4sident\" (governor) of the Province of Hanover from 1920 on. He became more conservative and supported Paul von Hindenburg in the elections for \"Reichspr\u00e4sident\" in 1925 and 1932. Since he was a Social Democrat, the Nazi government relieved him of his duties in the spring of 1933 and then dismissed him on 1 October. Noske then moved to Frankfurt. On 22 July 1944, he was arrested by the Gestapo under suspicion of involvement in the 20 July plot against Adolf Hitler and imprisoned in the Ravensbr\u00fcck concentration camp. He spent seven months in the camps before being transferred to a regular prison. Noske was freed by advancing Allied troops from a Gestapo prison in Berlin on 22 April 1945.\nHe died in Hanover on 30 November 1946 from a stroke while preparing for a lecture tour of the United States. He is buried at in Hanover.\nReception.\nNoske has been called \"one of the most forceful and at the same time controversial personalities of his time\". For some, Noske had the courage to be (in his own words) \"the bloodhound\" and prevent Germany from falling into chaos and then tyranny of the type previously experienced by Russia after the Bolshevik October Revolution. Another historian called him \"a primitive brute, who conducted policy according to a simple friend-foe-pattern\" and someone who was \"unable to differentiate, who was in love with violence, who from his whole mentality would have fitted better into the NSDAP than into the SPD\"."}
{"id": "761938", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761938", "title": "Peter Buchan", "text": "Peter Buchan (4 August 1790 \u2013 19 September 1854) was a Scottish editor, publisher, and collector of ballads and folktales.\nBiography.\nBorn in Peterhead, Buchan apprenticed with a , and in 1814 produced his first book, a collection of verse which failed to be taken notice of. As his hometown lacked any printer shops, in 1816 Buchan went to Stirling to learn the printing process, becoming proficient enough to produce samples within a matter of ten days.\nHe established business as a printer in Peterhead in March 1816, with the support of the Earl of Buchan who recommended a friend to fund the purchase of the press.\nIn the early years of business, he printed a series of chapbooks. He also invented his own printing press named the \"Auchmedden\", a pedal-operated devise that accepted stone, copper, as well as type surfaces for printing. He operated the press from a building on Peterhead's Longate. His \"The Annals of Peterhead\" (1819) had copper-plate illustrations which he himself engraved. \"Scarce Ancient Ballads\" (1819), \"Gleanings of Scarce Old Ballads\" (1825) were early publications that foreshadowed what would be his lifelong interest. \nAfter this, he held a position in London from which drew a \u00a3150 annual income, but having compromised his health, he retired to Peterhead and devoted himself to the collection of Scottish ballads from oral sources, and their publication. His \"Ancient Ballads and Songs of the North of Scotland\" (1828) contained a large number of hitherto unpublished ballads, and newly discovered versions of existing ones.\nWorks.\nAnother collection made by him was published by the Percy Society, under the title \"Scottish Traditional Versions of Ancient Ballads\" (1845). Two unpublished volumes of Buchan's ballad collections are in the British Museum.\nBuchan also compiled a collection of folktales, and his manuscripts were known to John Francis Campbell who discussed them in his \"Popular Tales of the West Highlands\". Buchan's folktales were later published as \"Ancient Scottish Tales\" (1908).\nAnimal rights.\nBuchan was an early animal rights writer. In 1824, he authored a book that argued that animals have souls and are immortal. Buchan argued that God must recompense the \"undeserved pain\" of animals by appointing them a \"future state\"."}
{"id": "761939", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761939", "title": "Jack Norworth", "text": "John Godfrey Knauff (January 5, 1879 \u2013 September 1, 1959), known professionally as Jack Norworth, was an American songwriter, singer and vaudeville performer.\nBiography.\nNorworth is credited as writer of a number of Tin Pan Alley hits. He wrote the lyrics to \"Take Me Out to the Ball Game\" in 1908, his longest-lasting hit. It wasn't until 1940 that he witnessed a major league baseball game. The song placed at number 8 on the \"Songs of the Century\" list selected by the National Endowment for the Arts and the Recording Industry Association of America.\nHis \"Shine On, Harvest Moon\" was a bigger hit at the time. There is some disagreement about his involvement in its creation. Broadway historian John Kenrick credits Edward Madden and Gus Edwards, while the family of Follies songwriter Dave Stamper claims he wrote the song while working as the pianist for Nora Bayes, the officially credited co-writer with Norworth. Another possibility for the music could lie with George Gershwin, who was also a piano player for this vaudeville troupe. Albert Koch, of Wisconsin, also an accomplished songwriter, claims to have written the song himself, and sold it outright for $50, forfeiting the rights to the song.\nOther popular songs credited to Norworth include \"Back to My Old Home Town\"; \"Come Along, My Mandy\"; \"Dear Dolly\"; \"Good Evening, Caroline\"; \"Holding Hands\"; \"Honey Boy\"; \"I'm Glad I'm a Boy/I'm Glad I'm a Girl\"; \"I'm Glad I'm Married\"; \"Kitty\"; \"Meet Me in Apple Blossom Time\"; \"Over on the Jersey Side\"; \"Since My Mother Was a Girl\"; \"Sing an Irish Song\" and \"Smarty.\" \"Turn Off Your Light, Mr. Moon Man\" is a sequel to \"Shine on, Harvest Moon.\"\nBorn John Godfrey Knauff in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Theodore Christian Knauff and Louise H. (Pearson) Knauff, he changed his name to Jack Norworth when he went into show business. His father was an organ builder and also a choir director at St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Philadelphia. The theater was not a reputable career in that time especially coming from a religious family. Following a few years at sea, he landed in New York City at age 20 to embark on a show business career. In 1908, he married Nora Bayes, with whom he performed in vaudeville; the couple divorced in 1913. Following the Ziegfeld Follies (1909), Norworth appeared in a number of Broadway theater productions and was heard on early radio, such as his March 1928 guest appearance on \"Acousticon Hour\". He also appeared April, 13, 1958 on the Ed Sullivan Show to sing \"Take Me Out to the Ball Game\" along with four players (Ford, Berra, Mantle, Skowron) from the New York Yankees.\nBefore Bayes, he had been married to actress Louise Dresser. He appeared in early sound films with his third wife, Dorothy Adelphi. His last film role came as a doctor in \"The Southerner\" (1945) under the direction of Jean Renoir. He was portrayed by Dennis Morgan in the 1944 musical film \"Shine On, Harvest Moon\" (in which Ann Sheridan played Bayes as the love of Norworth's life) and by Ron Husmann in the 1978 Ziegfeld biopic \"Ziegfeld: The Man &amp; His Women\". He is a member of the Songwriters Hall of Fame.\nJack Norworth died of a heart attack in Laguna Beach, California in 1959 and was interred at Melrose Abbey Memorial Park in Anaheim, California, just across I-5 from the Los Angeles Angels ballpark. \nOn July 11, 2010, a black granite monument, paid for by concerned fans, was installed about 100 feet from Jack's actual headstone."}
{"id": "761940", "revid": "45364314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761940", "title": "Journey into Mystery", "text": "Journey into Mystery is an American comic book series initially published by Atlas Comics, then by its successor, Marvel Comics. Initially a horror comics anthology, it changed to giant-monster and science fiction stories in the late 1950s. Beginning with issue #83 (cover dated Aug. 1962), it ran the superhero feature \"The Mighty Thor\", created by writers Stan Lee and Larry Lieber and artist Jack Kirby, and inspired by the mythological Norse thunder god. The series, which was renamed for its superhero star with issue #126 (March 1966), has been revived three times: in the 1970s as a horror anthology, and in the 1990s and 2010s with characters from Marvel's Thor mythos. The title was also used in 2019 for a limited series as part of the \"War of the Realms\" storyline.\nPublication history.\n1950s\u20131960s.\nThe first \"Journey into Mystery\" series was initially a horror-fantasy anthology published by Marvel Comics' 1950s forerunner, Atlas Comics, with a first issue cover-dated June 1952. Artist Joe Kubert, who would later become one of the main war comics artists for DC Comics, drew the story \"The Hog\" in \"Journey into Mystery\" #21 (January 1955). Issue #23 was the first to be approved by the Comics Code Authority, which led to restrictions on horror comics. The title was caught in the collapse of Atlas' distributor, and publication was suspended for a year between issues #48 (Aug. 1957) and #49 (Nov. 1958). Xemnu, a huge, furry alien monster, first appeared in \"Journey Into Mystery\" #62 (Nov. 1960). The character reappeared in issue #66 (March 1961). Since then the character has been a mainstay in the Marvel Universe, and was renamed Xemnu the Titan. \"Journey into Mystery\" #69 and the teen-humor title \"Patsy Walker\" #95 (both June 1961) are the first modern comic books labeled \"Marvel Comics\", with each showing an \"MC\" box on its cover.\nBeginning with issue #83 (Aug. 1962), the title introduced the Norse god superhero Thor. The anthological stories, by now primarily science fiction-fantasy, gradually diminished after this, with the Thor-spinoff backup feature \"Tales of Asgard\" beginning in issue #97 (Oct. 1963). They were dropped entirely with issue #105 (June 1964), when the \"Thor\" feature expanded from 13 to 18 pages. With the previous issue, the cover logo had changed to \"Journey into Mystery with the Mighty Thor\". Its final issue was #125 (Feb. 1966), after which the series was retitled \"The Mighty Thor\" in its trademarked cover logo and simply \"Thor\" in its postal indicia copyright notice. Thor's evil adoptive brother Loki was introduced in issue #85 (October 1962). Other adversaries for the new hero included the Radioactive Man introduced in #93 (June 1963), the Enchantress and the Executioner in #104 (April 1964), the Absorbing Man in #114 (March 1965), and the Destroyer in #118 (July 1965). An oversized annual publication, featuring Thor, was released in 1965 and introduced the Marvel version of the Greco-Roman demigod Hercules. Comics historian Les Daniels noted that \"the adventures of Thor were gradually transformed from stories about a strange-looking superhero into a spectacular saga.\"\nVolume 2 (1970s).\nA second \"Journey into Mystery\" ran 19 issues (October 1972 \u2013 October 1975). The title was one of four launched by Marvel Comics editor-in-chief Roy Thomas to form a line of science fiction and horror anthologies with more thematic cohesion than the company's earlier attempts that decade, which had included the series \"Chamber of Darkness\" and \"Tower of Shadows\". Whereas those titles generally presented original stories, these new books would instead adapt genre classics and other stories. With the four titles' debuts set to be staggered over the course of four months, Marvel premiered \"Journey into Mystery\" vol. 2 (October 1972), \"Chamber of Chills\" (Nov. 1972), \"Supernatural Thrillers\" (Dec. 1972), and, with a late start, \"Worlds Unknown\" (May 1973).\nThe first five issues of \"Journey into Mystery\" vol. 2 featured such adaptations as Robert E. Howard's \"Dig Me No Grave\", by writer Thomas and penciler Gil Kane, in issue #1; Robert Bloch's \"Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper\" by Thomas and Ron Goulart and penciler Kane, in #2; and H. P. Lovecraft's \"The Haunter of the Dark\" by Goulart and penciler Gene Colan, in addition to anthological horror stories by writers including George Alec Effinger, Steve Gerber, Steve Englehart, and Steve Skeates, and pencilers such as Billy Graham, Jim Starlin, Ralph Reese, and P. Craig Russell. Most issues also included a reprinted story from Marvel's 1950s predecessor, Atlas Comics. By issue #6, however, the magazine became a reprint title featuring science-fiction and giant-monster tales from the first \"Journey into Mystery\" series, as well as from the \"pre-superhero Marvel\" anthologies \"Amazing Adult Fantasy\", \"Strange Tales\", \"Strange Worlds\", and \"Tales to Astonish\".\n1990s series.\nAs a consequence of the company-wide crossover \"Heroes Reborn\", Thor ceased to be the focus of his own series, which was restored to \"Journey into Mystery\" beginning with issue #503 (Nov. 1996). The feature \"The Lost Gods\" ran through issue #513, followed by issues starring Shang-Chi, Master of Kung Fu and the Black Widow for three issues each, and reluctant vampire Hannibal King for two, ending with issue #521 (June 1998).\n2010s series.\nThe \"Thor\" title resumed its original numbering in 2009 with \"Thor\" #600, including the intervening issues of \"Thor\" in its count while disregarding the 1990s \"Journey Into Mystery\" issues. Starting with issue #622, the series for a second time had its title restored to \"Journey Into Mystery\", which accompanied the launch of a new title, \"Mighty Thor.\" Thor's supporting cast returned as the focus of a run written by Kieron Gillen, who had written \"Thor\" from #604 to #614, and drawn by Doug Braithwaite. Starring was the Thor antagonist Loki, who had been reincarnated as a child following his sacrifice in the series \"Siege\". Gillen's run was favorably reviewed, with one critic writing:\nIn Gillen's final issue, a letter from Tom Hiddleston, who portrays Loki in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, was published, in which he praised Gillen for his take on the character.\nWith issue #646, the focus of \"Journey into Mystery\" changed with its rebranding under the Marvel NOW! imprint. Written by Kathryn Immonen and drawn by Valerio Schiti, the series began starring the Marvel Asgardians, with Lady Sif as its lead character. The series was cancelled with issue #655 (Oct. 2013).\nWar of the Realms: Journey into Mystery.\nDuring the \"War of the Realms\" storyline in 2019, the title was used for a limited five\u2013issue run written by Griffin, Justin, Travis and Clint McElroy. The series was drawn by Andr\u00e9 Lima Ara\u00fajo with covers from Valerio Schiti. In the limited series, Spider-Man, Hawkeye, Wonder Man, Sebastian Druid, Death Locket, Thori the Hellhound, and Balder the Brave go on a quest to save the Earth. In 2023, the McElroys continued the storyline in the \"Outre Space\" arc of their tabletop role playing podcast, \"The Adventure Zone\", using the Marvel Multiverse rules set."}
{"id": "761941", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761941", "title": "List of candidates in the 2004 United States presidential election", "text": "The following are lists of candidates in the 2004 U.S. presidential election. Candidates who were not on any state ballots, withdrew from the race, suspended their presidential campaign, or failed to earn their party's nomination are listed separately.\nParty nominees.\nAll candidates in the table below were on the ballot in multiple states. Those who were on the ballot in enough states to win a majority in the U.S. Electoral College are marked in bold. Candidates who were on the ballot in no more than one state are listed in the next section.\nBallot access.\nThe two major parties in the United States are the Democratic and the Republican parties, which are on the ballot in all fifty states and the District of Columbia.\nThe table below shows which third-party candidates were able to gain ballot access in each state. In some states, these candidates were on the ballot as independents, or on the ballot lines of different parties (for example, in Michigan the Socialist Party USA candidate received the Natural Law Party's ballot line.)\nThe Socialist Workers Party's official ticket could not be listed on the ballot in some states because Calero and Hawkins were both ineligible to be president, as Calero was not a native-born citizen and Hawkins was too young. In such states the party used their 2000 ticket of James Harris and Margaret Trowe (JH).\nThe Prohibition Party suffered a schism in 2003. Long-time presidential candidate Earl Dodge was the nominee of one faction, while Gene Amondson was the nominee of the other. Both factions were on the ballot in Colorado, with only Amondson on the ballot in Louisiana.\nThe tickets below were on the ballot in no more than one state. Those who appeared on a single state's ballot are in bold, all others were write-in candidates. Those without party labels were independents. Some did not have vice-presidential candidates.\nAlthough Guam has no votes in the Electoral College, they have held a straw poll for their presidential preferences since 1980. In 2004, the results were Bush 21,490 (64.1%), Kerry 11,781 (35.1%), Nader 196 (0.58%) and Badnarik 67 (0.2%)."}
{"id": "761942", "revid": "50213302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761942", "title": "Forest, Ontario", "text": "Forest is a community in Lambton Shores, Ontario, Canada, near Sarnia and Lake Huron in Lambton County. It has a population of 2,876 (2011 Census) and a land area of .\nCommunity.\nForest's high school is North Lambton Secondary School. This facility includes a large gymnasium and cafeteria, as well as meal preparation facilities. The community also has elementary schools in both the public (Kinnwood Central Public School) and catholic (St. John Fisher) school systems.\nRecreational facilities include an enclosed arena for hockey or ringette, a community centre for dances held by the town with baseball and soccer fields, a lawn bowling club, public tennis courts, splash pad and an agricultural society with grounds used for a fall fair and occasional campsites. There are a dozen golf courses within a 20-mile drive.\nForest Amphitheatre is a natural amphitheatre located at the conservation area (Esli Dodge Conservation Area) in the south part of the town. The stage is situated on a small island, and spectators sit on the surrounding hillsides on lawn chairs or blankets. Hundreds attend outdoor performances there each summer. An annual performance of a religious play (\"The Promise\"), acted in by members of the town, was held annually from 1995 to 2005. Since 2007 country music concerts entitled \"Music In the Valley\" have been held there.\nThe Forest Museum is located in the old Forest Home Bakery building at 8 Main St. N. This building dates to the 1880s. Permanent display themes include the bakery, First Nations, agriculture, the railway, the military, the Forest Excelsior Band, local doctors, fashion, toys, Peoples Telephone, area businesses, churches and schools. The museum was founded in 1963 by the Forest-Lambton Museum Society. In 2019, museum volunteers discovered 100 year old silent movie era posters hidden away in an old storage shed on the property. The posters were likely kept in the shed because the bakery was once owned by the Rumford family, founders of the Kineto Theatre. Two of the recovered posters has been cleaned up and are on display at the museum. A third is on display at the Kineto.\nThe Kineto Theatre is one of the world's oldest movie theatres, having been in operation since 1917. Owned and operated by the Kiwanis Club of Forest, it features a concession booth and seats up to 225 people, and is open every Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday.\nHistory.\nForest is situated on what was once dense forest. When the Grand Trunk Railway was built through where the town now sits, the station was named for the dense forest. Hickory Creek, which meanders through the town, provided water for the station in those days when wood and water were essential to the operation of steam locomotives.\nThe first post office, in 1859, was then named Forest. The site was very near the junction of three township boundaries, with parts of Warwick, Plympton and Bosanquet townships all annexed into the town. None of these townships remain as political units due to amalgamation, with Bosanquet joining Forest in forming Lambton Shores (along with the villages of Arkona, Thedford, and Grand Bend).\nThe industry of the town was initially tied to the abundant fruit growing operation. There were once a canning factory and a basket factory in Forest. In more recent years the town has become a dormitory community for the city of Sarnia (and to a lesser extent London, Ontario). The extensive tourism area along the shores of nearby Lake Huron also supports several businesses. Several small factories supporting the auto industry have also opened in the past few years.\nThe once Forest Carnegie Library has its historical plaque posted on the outside pillar and is now operating as an event centre where one can rent the space and hold private social events. There is a meeting space, music area, as well as a long missed billiards table - as seen on the website https://library-events.com."}
{"id": "761943", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761943", "title": "Thomas Norton", "text": "Thomas Norton (153210 March 1584) was an English lawyer, politician, writer of verse, and playwright.\nOfficial career.\nNorton was born in London, the son of Thomas Norton and the former Elizabeth Merry. He was educated at Cambridge. He became a secretary to Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset. In 1555 he was admitted as a student at the Inner Temple. He married Margery Cranmer, the daughter of Archbishop Thomas Cranmer and his wife Margarete, with whom he had no children. Margery died before 1568. In 1568, Thomas married Alice Cranmer, the daughter of Archdeacon Edmund Cranmer, the brother of the Archbishop of Canterbury, with whom he did have issue.\nNorton served in Parliament as the representative of Gatton. In 1562 he became M.P. for Berwick, and was active in politics. He became the unofficial leader of a group of about fifty members of the House of Commons, which G. R. Elton saw as the first semi-official opposition in Parliament. He was inspired by the religious views of his father-in-law, and was in possession of Cranmer's manuscript code of ecclesiastical law; this he permitted John Foxe to publish in 1571. He went to Rome on legal business, in 1579. From 1580 to 1583 he frequently visited the Channel Islands as a commissioner to inquire into the status of these possessions.\nNorton was the first Remembrancer of the City of London, holding the office from 1570 until his death in 1584.\nNorton's Calvinism grew, and towards the end of his career he became a fanatic. Norton held several interrogation sessions in the Tower of London using torture instruments such as the rack. His punishment of the Catholics, as their official censor from 1581 onwards, led to his being nicknamed \"Rackmaster-General\" and \"Rackmaster Norton\".\nNorton's puritanism made him objectionable to the English bishops; he was deprived of his office and thrown into the Tower. Francis Walsingham released him, but Norton's health was undermined, and in March 1584 he died in his house at Sharpenhoe, Bedfordshire.\nLiterature.\nFrom his eighteenth year Norton began to compose verse. With Jasper Heywood he was a writer of sonnets. He contributed to \"Tottel's Miscellany\", and in 1560 he co-authored, along with Thomas Sackville, the earliest English tragedy, \"Gorboduc\", which was performed before Elizabeth I in the Inner Temple on 18 January 1561.\n\"Gorboduc\" was revised, as \"The Tragedy of Ferrex and Porrex\" in 1570. Norton's early lyrics have mostly disappeared. His numerous anti-Catholic pamphlets include those on the rebellion of Northumberland and on the projected marriage of Mary, Queen of Scots, to the Duke of Norfolk. Norton also translated Calvin's \"Institutes\" (1561) and Alexander Nowell's \"Catechism\" (1570).\n\"Gorboduc\" was edited by William Durrant Cooper (Shakespeare Society, 1847), and Lucy Toulmin Smith in Karl Vollm\u00f6ller's \"Englische Sprache-und Literatur-denkmale\" (1883)."}
{"id": "761949", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761949", "title": "John K. Northrop", "text": ""}
{"id": "761952", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761952", "title": "Jack Northrop", "text": "John Knudsen Northrop (November 10, 1895 \u2013 February 18, 1981) was an American aircraft industrialist and designer who founded the Northrop Corporation in 1939.\nHis career began in 1916 as a draftsman for Loughead Aircraft Manufacturing Company (founded 1912). He joined the Douglas Aircraft Company in 1923 and worked on the Douglas World Cruiser, where in time he became a project engineer. In 1927 he joined the Lockheed Corporation, where he was a chief engineer on the Lockheed Vega transport. He left in 1929 to found Avion Corporation, which he sold in 1930. Two years later, he founded the Northrop Corporation. This firm became a subsidiary of Douglas Aircraft in 1939, so he co-founded a second company named Northrop.\nEarly life and entering aviation.\nBorn in Newark, New Jersey, in 1895, Northrop grew up in Santa Barbara, California. In 1916, Northrop's first job in aviation was in working as a draftsman for the Santa Barbara-based Loughead Aircraft Manufacturing Company. After the outbreak of the First World War, Northrop was drafted into the U.S. Army, where he served in the Army Signal Corps. Northrop served in the military for six months before Loughead successfully petitioned for his return to work in the private sector. In 1923, Northrop joined Douglas Aircraft Company, where he participated in the design of the Douglas Round-the-World-Cruiser and worked up to project engineer.\nIn 1927 he rejoined the Loughead brothers and their newly founded (in 1926) Lockheed Aircraft Company, working as chief engineer on the Lockheed Vega, the civilian transport monoplane with a cantilever wing that produced unusually high performance for that period, and was widely used by such top pilots as Wiley Post, Amelia Earhart, and Hubert Wilkins. In 1929 he produced an all-metal monoplane with an engine within the wing structure. Although this aircraft had booms to attach the tail group, it was in fact the first step toward the flying wing.\nCompany founding.\nIn 1929, Northrop struck out on his own, founding the Avion Corporation, which he was forced to sell to United Aircraft and Transport Corporation in 1930. In 1932, Northrop, backed by Donald Douglas of Douglas Aircraft, founded another company, the Northrop Corporation in El Segundo, California. This company built two highly successful monoplanes, the Northrop Gamma and Northrop Delta.\nBy 1939 the Northrop Corporation had become a subsidiary of Douglas Aircraft, so Northrop founded another completely independent company of the same name in Hawthorne, California, a site located by Moye Stephens, one of the co-founders.\nFlying wing and other aircraft.\nWhile working at this company, Northrop focused on the flying wing design, which he was convinced was the next major step in aircraft design. His first project, a reduced-scale version tested in 1940, ultimately became the giant Northrop XB-35. The Northrop XP-56 Black Bullet, a welded magnesium fighter was one of the more significant of his World War II designs, along with the Northrop P-61 Black Widow, the first American night interceptor, of which more than 700 were constructed.\nHis inventions continued into the postwar era of jet aircraft, to produce the Northrop F-89 Scorpion all-weather interceptor, the Northrop YB-49 long-range bomber, the Northrop Snark intercontinental missile, and automatic celestial navigation systems.\nHe produced a number of flying wings, including the Northrop N-1M, Northrop N-9M, and Northrop XB-35. His ideas regarding flying wing technology were years ahead of the computer and electronic advances of \"fly-by-wire\" stability systems which allow inherently unstable aircraft like the B-2 Spirit flying wing to be flown like a conventional aircraft.\nThe flying wing and the pursuit of low drag high lift designs were Northrop's passion and its failure to be selected as the next generation bomber platform after World War II, and the subsequent dismantling of all prototypes and incomplete YB-49s, were a severe blow to him. He retired at age 57 in 1952 and virtually ended his association with the company for the next 30 years.\nLater years.\nHe broke a decades-long silence on the Flying Wing's demise in a 1979 television interview, accusing the Air Force of killing the project to punish him for refusing to merge his company with Consolidated Vultee. He alleged that Air Force Secretary Stuart Symington threatened him by saying, \"You\u2019ll be goddamned sorry if you don\u2019t\". Symington later left the government to head the very same Consolidated Vultee company Northrop had refused to merge with. Symington called the charge \"preposterous and absurd\" and told a researcher \"There was a tremendous overcapacity in the industry following World War II\". He said Northrop came to him, seeking more business to help his struggling company. Symington said, \"I may very well have suggested that he merge his company with Convair, who we knew was going to get business.\" Aviation expert Bud Baker, who studied declassified documents and public records and conducted personal interviews with Symington, Air Force generals and Northrop's chairman, concluded the cancellation \"was a sound decision, based on budgetary, technical, and strategic realities.\"\nNorthrop dabbled in real estate and lost much of his personal fortune. In 1976, with his health failing, he felt compelled to communicate to NASA his belief in the low drag high lift concept inherent in the flying wing. NASA replied that the idea had technological merit, encouraging Northrop that his flying wing concepts had not been completely abandoned. By the late 1970s a variety of illnesses left him unable to walk or speak. Shortly before his death, he was given clearance to see designs and hold a scale model of the Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit stealth bomber, which shared design features of his XB-35 and YB-49. The B-2, for example, has the same 172-foot wingspan as the jet-powered flying wing, YB-49. Northrop reportedly wrote on a sheet of paper \"Now I know why God has kept me alive for 25 years\". B-2 project designer John Cashen said, \"As he held this model in his shaking hands, it was as if you could see his entire history with the flying wing passing through his mind.\" He died ten months later.\nAwards and honors.\nIn 1947 he received the Spirit of St. Louis Medal from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers for \"meritorious service in the advancement of aeronautics.\"\nInvestiture in the International Aerospace Hall of Fame came in 1972, and in the National Aviation Hall of Fame in 1974. He was posthumously inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 2003.\nNorthrop's passion for tailless flight was honored by the naming of a giant tailless pterosaur \"Quetzalcoatlus northropi\".\nHawthorne Municipal Airport is also known as Jack Northrop Field in his honor."}
{"id": "761954", "revid": "4842600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761954", "title": "Gregg shorthand", "text": "Gregg shorthand is a system of shorthand developed by John Robert Gregg in 1888. Distinguished by its phonemic basis, the system prioritizes the sounds of speech over traditional English spelling, enabling rapid writing by employing elliptical figures and lines that bisect them. Gregg shorthand's design facilitates smooth, cursive strokes without the angular outlines characteristic of earlier systems like Duployan shorthand, thereby enhancing writing-speed and legibility.\nOver the years, Gregg shorthand has undergone several revisions, each aimed at simplifying the system and increasing its speed and efficiency. These versions range from the Pre-Anniversary editions to the more recent Centennial version, with each adaptation maintaining the core principles while introducing modifications to suit varying needs and preferences.\nIts efficiency, once mastered, allows for speeds upwards of 280 words per minute. The system is adaptable to both right- and left-handed writers.\nBackground.\nGregg shorthand, invented by John Robert Gregg in 1888, is a form of shorthand that, like cursive longhand, primarily uses elliptical figures and lines that bisect them. The advent of dictation machines, shorthand machines, handheld tape recorders, digital voice recorders, voice recording applications on smartphones, and the trend of executives drafting their own letters on personal computers has led to a gradual decline in shorthand usage in business and reporting contexts.\nGregg shorthand is often compared with Pitman shorthand due to their significant dominance over other English shorthand systems. While Pitman shorthand differentiates between similar sounds through line thickness and position, Gregg shorthand maintains uniform line thickness and uses stroke length to distinguish between sounds.\nInitially, John Robert Gregg taught an adaptation of Duployan shorthand for English, a system that was predominant in France and characterized by uniform stroke thickness and attached vowel representation. However, he found the angular outlines of Duployan-based systems to be detrimental to speed.\nGregg shorthand is distinguished by its cursive strokes that blend smoothly, avoiding sharp angles, and its symbols are specifically designed for English, offering a better fit than the Duployan system. For example, Gregg shorthand has a unique symbol for the \"th\" sound ( and ), in contrast to Duployan systems, which use a dotted \"t,\" resulting in slower writing.\nWriting.\nGregg shorthand is a system of phonography, or a phonemic writing system, which means it records the sounds of the speaker, not the English spelling. For example, it uses the \"f\" stroke for the sound in \"funnel\", \"telephone\", and \"laugh\", and omits all silent letters. The system is written from left to right and the letters are joined. \"Sh\" (= ) (and \"zh\" = ), \"Ch\" (= ), and \"J\" (or \"Dzh\", = ) are written downward, while \"t\" and \"d\" are written upward. \"X\" is expressed by putting a slight backward slant on the \"s\" symbol, though a word beginning \"ex\" is just written as if spelt \"es\" (and, according to Pre-Anniversary, \"ox\" is written as if \"os\"). \"W\" when in the middle of a word, is notated with a short dash under the next vowel. Therefore, the digraph \"qu\" (= ) is usually written as \"k\" with a dash underneath the next vowel. In the \"Anniversary\" edition and before, if \"z\" need be distinguished from \"s\", a small tick drawn at a right angle from the \"s\" may be written to make this distinction. \nMany of the letters shown are also \"brief forms\", or standard abbreviations for the most common words for increased speed in writing. For instance, instead of writing \"kan\" for \"can\", the Gregg stenographer just writes \"k\". These brief forms are shown on the adjacent image. There are several others not shown, however. For instance, \"please\" is written in \"Simplified\" and before as simply \"pl\", and \"govern\" as \"gv\".\nPhrasing is another mechanism for increasing the speed of shorthand writing. Based on the notion that lifting the pen between words would have a heavy speed cost, phrasing is the combination of several smaller distinct forms into one outline. For example, \"it may be that the\" can be written in one outline, \"(tm)ab(th)a(th)\". \"I have not been able\" would be written, \"avnba\" (note that to the eye of the reader this phrase written in shorthand looks like \"I-have-not-been-able\", and so phrasing is far more legible than a longhand explanation of the principle may lead one to believe).\nThe vowels in Gregg shorthand are divided into groups that very rarely require further notation. The \"a\" is a large circle, and can stand for the sounds in \"trap\" , \"palm\" , and \"face\" . The \"e\" is a small circle, and can stand for the sounds in \"dress\" , \"fleece\" , \"kit\" , and \"nurse\" . \"\u012b\" represents the sound in \"price\" . The \"o\" is a small hook that represents the sounds in \"goat\" , \"lot\" , \"thought\" , and \"north\" . The \"u\" is a small hook that represents the sounds in \"strut\" , \"foot\" , and \"goose\" . It also expresses a \"w\" at the beginning of a word. In \"Anniversary\" and before, short and long vowel sounds for e, a, o and u may be distinguished by a mark under the vowel, a dot for short and a small downward tick for long sounds.\nThere are special vowel markings for certain diphthongs. The ow in \"how\" is just an \"a\" circle followed by a \"u\" hook. The \"io\" in \"lion\" , or any diphthong involving a long i and a vowel, is written with a small circle inside a large circle. The \"ia\" in \"piano\" and \"repudiate\" is notated as a large circle with a dot in its center. In \"Anniversary\" and before, if \"ea\" need be distinguished from \"ia\", it is notated with a small downward tick inside the circle instead of the dot. The \"u\" in \"united\" is notated with a small circle followed by an \"u\" hook above it.\nDue to the simple alphabet, Gregg shorthand is very fast in writing; however, it takes a great deal of practice to master it. Speeds of 280 WPM (where a word is 1.4 syllables) have been reached with this system before, and those notes are still legible to others who know the system.\nSome left-handed shorthand writers have found it more comfortable to write Gregg shorthand from right to left.\nVersions.\nThroughout its history, different forms of Gregg shorthand have been published. All the versions use the same alphabet and basic principles, but they differ in degrees of abbreviation and, as a result, speed. The 1916 version is generally the fastest and most abbreviated version. Series 90 Gregg has the smallest degree of abbreviation, but it is also generally the slowest standard version of Gregg. Though each version differs in its level of abbreviation, most versions have expert and reporting versions for writers who desire more shortcuts.\nMany versions of this system were published. Several of these versions were given names: \"Anniversary\" (published in 1929), \"Gregg Shorthand Simplified\" (1949), \"Diamond Jubilee\" (1963), and \"Series 90\" (1978). The last version was \"Centennial\", published in 1988. Versions published before 1929 are often referred to as Pre-Anniversary. These versions are described below in this article. Besides the main editions, a number of simpler, personal-use editions were published from 1924 to 1968. These included \"Greghand\" in 1935, and \"Notehand\" in 1960 and 1968.\nPre-Anniversary Gregg shorthand.\nGregg Shorthand was first published in England 1888 by John Robert Gregg under the title \"Light Line Phonography\"; however, it was in a very primal stage. Due to its rough-and-ready character and the fact that Pitman shorthand was well established there, it did not gain much success. Five years later, in 1893, a second edition of the manual with an improved version of the system was published in the USA, then in a third edition titled \"Gregg Shorthand\" in 1897. The fourth edition, published in 1902, developed more shortcuts. The fifth edition, published in 1916, is the version most commonly referred to as \"Pre-Anniversary\" Gregg shorthand; this version has the largest number of brief forms, phrases, and shortcuts.\nGregg Shorthand Anniversary Edition.\nIn 1929 another version of Gregg shorthand was published. This system reduced the memory load on its learners by decreasing the number of brief forms and removing uncommon prefixes. It was intended to have been published in 1928 on the 40th anniversary of the system, but it was published a year afterward due to a delay in its production.\nGregg Shorthand Simplified.\n\"Gregg Shorthand Simplified\" was published in 1949. This system drastically reduced the number of brief forms that needed to be memorized to only 181. Even with this reduction in the number of brief forms, one could still reach speeds upward of 150 WPM. The system was simplified to directly address the need of business stenographers, who only needed to produce 100\u2013120 WPM transcription. The creator of an advanced reporting version of Gregg Shorthand, Charles Lee Swem, wrote in \"The National Shorthand Reporter\", \"An abbreviated, simplified edition of our system has been published and accepted for the purpose of training office stenographers, and not necessarily reporters.\" He also advised, \"I do not believe any young student should hesitate to study Simplified for fear it will jeopardize his chances of becoming a reporter. It is fundamentally the same system as we reporters learned from the Anniversary edition. Once Simplified is learned, the change-over to the reporting style is comparatively simple and can be made by any writer.\"\nGregg Shorthand Diamond Jubilee Edition.\nThe Diamond Jubilee series was published through most of the 1960s and the 1970s (1963\u20131977). It was simpler than the Simplified version, and reduced the number of brief forms to 129. For \"Diamond Jubilee\" students who wanted to increase speed for reporting, an edition of \"Expert\" \"Diamond Jubilee\" was available to push speeds upward.\nGregg Shorthand Series 90.\n\"Series 90\" (1978\u20131987) was an even simpler version, which used a minimal number of brief forms and placed a great emphasis on clear transcription, rather than reporting speed. Although it introduced a couple of new abbreviations and reintroduced some short forms that were missing in Diamond Jubilee, it eliminated several other short forms, and was in the main simpler, longer, and slower than the previous editions. Shorthand was dwindling in popularity during this series' usage.\nGregg Shorthand Centennial Edition.\nPublished in 1988, this is the most recent series of Gregg shorthand. It was the only version since the Pre-Anniversary edition of 1916 to increase the complexity of the system from the previous one, having 132 brief forms.\nOther versions.\nThe above versions of Gregg shorthand were marketed for professional use, such as business and court reporting. \"Gregg Shorthand Junior Manual\", designed for junior high school students, was published in 1927 and 1929. \"Greghand, A Simple Phonetic Writing for Everyday Use by Everyone\" was published as a pamphlet in 1935. The 1960 and 1968 editions of \"Gregg Notehand\" focused on how to take effective classroom and personal notes using a simple form of Gregg shorthand.\nAdaptations.\nGregg shorthand has been adapted to several languages, including Afrikaans, Esperanto, French, German, Hebrew, Irish, Italian, Japanese, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Catalan, Thai, and Tagalog. With a few customizations, it can be adapted to nearly any language. \nThe Mandarin Chinese version slightly modified the original system, under the name \"Beifang Suji\" (\u5317\u65b9\n\u901f\u8a18 B\u011bif\u0101ng s\u00f9j\u00ec 'Northern Shorthand')."}
{"id": "761955", "revid": "41778985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761955", "title": "Rotary Smith Award", "text": "The Rotary Smith Award was created in 1988 to honor the most outstanding college baseball player of the year. The award was founded by the Greater Houston Sports Association. In 1996, the Rotary Club of Houston joined the award committee. Prior to the 2004 season, the award was succeeded by the Roger Clemens Award, honoring the most outstanding college baseball pitcher."}
{"id": "761957", "revid": "1292509013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761957", "title": "Geoffry Northcote", "text": "Sir Geoffry Alexander Stafford Northcote, KCMG KStJ (\u7f85\u5bcc\u570b;9 February 1881 \u2013 10 July 1948) was a British colonial administrator.\nEarly life, education, and early colonial services career.\nNorthcote was the son of Reverend the Hon. Arthur Francis Northcote, fourth son of the 1st Earl of Iddesleigh. The 1st Baron Northcote was his uncle. He was educated at Blundell's School in Tiverton and Balliol College, Oxford. He entered the Colonial Service in 1904 and served in Kenya (the East African Protectorate) from 1904 to 1927. He became Chief Secretary of Northern Rhodesia a year later, and served there until 1930. Afterwards, Northcote served as the Chief Secretary of Gold Coast, until 1934 and as Governor and Commander-in-Chief of British Guiana from 1935 to 1937.\nAttack in Kenya.\nWhen he arrived in Kenya in 1904 as a political attache, Northcote was posted to Nyanza Province which was then part of Uganda. In early 1905, he accompanied a punitive expedition to Kisii land in South Nyanza. The expedition seized and slaughtered livestock and torched houses as punishment for raids the Kisii had carried out on neighbouring groups. In 1907, Northcote was deployed as the District Commissioner of Kisii. The Kisii, who nicknamed him \"Nyarigoti\", considered him their mortal enemy. On 18 January 1908, in the middle of a punitive expedition he was leading, Northcote was attacked with a spear and injured by a warrior called Otenyo. When Otenyo was caught, he was tried and executed in public by a firing squad and then beheaded. When Northcote learned of these attacks to revenge the attack on him, which ended up costing 160 lives, he wrote to his father, \"It would take too long to describe the idiocy, obstinacy and want of military operations.\"\nHong Kong Governorship.\nHe became Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Hong Kong in 1937. During his tenure, the Second Sino-Japanese War broke out, and battles broke out throughout Mainland China. In order to safeguard the Colony, Northcote immediately declared Hong Kong a neutral zone. As the war proceeded, Canton (Guangzhou) was occupied by the Japanese, causing a population boom as refugees rushed into Hong Kong. Northcote proposed more provision of housing and social services to serve the needs of the poor. Meanwhile, the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) also started encroaching upon Sham Chun (Shenzhen), leading the Hong Kong government to adopt various measures to cope with the emergency, such as the construction of air-raid shelters and blackout practices. Northcote also withdrew the plan of expanding social services.\nAfter taking six-months' leave in the UK, Northcote returned to Hong Kong in March 1941. Poor health forced him to retire that year, and he left when his appointment expired in September 1941.\nPersonal life.\nNorthcote married Edith Juliet Mary Adams on 27 October 1910; she was the daughter of James Adams VC. The couple had three sons: Maxwell Adams Stafford, Arthur Geoffrey Stafford, and Amyas Henry Stafford. Northcote died in July 1948, aged 67.\nPlaces named after him.\nNorthcote Close, a road on Hong Kong Island, and Northcote Teachers' College (the premises is now occupied by Bonham Road Government Primary School) were named after him."}
{"id": "761958", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761958", "title": "Olive North", "text": ""}
{"id": "761959", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761959", "title": "Olive North, Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "761960", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761960", "title": "Olive North Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "761961", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761961", "title": "Oliver L. North Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "761962", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761962", "title": "Oliver L. North, Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "761963", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761963", "title": "Oliver L. North", "text": ""}
{"id": "761964", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761964", "title": "Oliver Laurence North", "text": ""}
{"id": "761965", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761965", "title": "Oliver Laurence North, Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "761969", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761969", "title": "Heathenism", "text": ""}
{"id": "761970", "revid": "835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761970", "title": "Oliver Laurence North Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "761972", "revid": "146242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761972", "title": "Fascist Manifesto/1919", "text": ""}
{"id": "761973", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761973", "title": "Douglass Cecil North", "text": ""}
{"id": "761974", "revid": "49353013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761974", "title": "Wave power", "text": "Wave power is the capture of energy of wind waves to do useful work \u2013 for example, electricity generation, desalination, or pumping water. A machine that exploits wave power is a wave energy converter (WEC).\nWaves are generated primarily by wind passing over the sea's surface and also by tidal forces, temperature variations, and other factors. As long as the waves propagate slower than the wind speed just above, energy is transferred from the wind to the waves. Air pressure differences between the windward and leeward sides of a wave crest and surface friction from the wind cause shear stress and wave growth.\nWave power as a descriptive term is different from tidal power, which seeks to primarily capture the energy of the current caused by the gravitational pull of the Sun and Moon. However, wave power and tidal power are not fundamentally distinct and have significant cross-over in technology and implementation. Other forces can create currents, including breaking waves, wind, the Coriolis effect, cabbeling, and temperature and salinity differences.\nAs of 2023, wave power is not widely employed for commercial applications, after a long series of trial projects. Attempts to use this energy began in 1890 or earlier, mainly due to its high power density. Just below the ocean's water surface the wave energy flow, in time-average, is typically five times denser than the wind energy flow 20 m above the sea surface, and 10 to 30 times denser than the solar energy flow.\nIn 2000 the world's first commercial wave power device, the Islay LIMPET was installed on the coast of Islay in Scotland and connected to the UK national grid. In 2008, the first experimental multi-generator wave farm was opened in Portugal at the Agu\u00e7adoura Wave Farm. Both projects have since ended. For a list of other wave power stations see List of wave power stations.\nWave energy converters can be classified based on their working principle as either:\nHistory.\nThe first known patent to extract energy from ocean waves was in 1799, filed in Paris by Pierre-Simon Girard and his son. An early device was constructed around 1910 by Bochaux-Praceique to power his house in Royan, France. It appears that this was the first oscillating water-column type of wave-energy device. From 1855 to 1973 there were 340 patents filed in the UK alone.\nModern pursuit of wave energy was pioneered by Yoshio Masuda's 1940s experiments. He tested various concepts, constructing hundreds of units used to power navigation lights. Among these was the concept of extracting power from the angular motion at the joints of an articulated raft, which Masuda proposed in the 1950s.\nThe oil crisis in 1973 renewed interest in wave energy. Substantial wave-energy development programmes were launched by governments in several countries, in particular in the UK, Norway and Sweden. Researchers re-examined waves' potential to extract energy, notably Stephen Salter, Johannes Falnes, Kjell Budal, Michael E. McCormick, David Evans, Michael French, Nick Newman, and C. C. Mei.\nSalter's 1974 invention became known as Salter's duck or \"nodding duck\", officially the Edinburgh Duck. In small-scale tests, the Duck's curved cam-like body can stop 90% of wave motion and can convert 90% of that to electricity, giving 81% efficiency. In the 1980s, several other first-generation prototypes were tested, but as oil prices ebbed, wave-energy funding shrank. Climate change later reenergized the field.\nThe world's first wave energy test facility was established in Orkney, Scotland in 2003 to kick-start the development of a wave and tidal energy industry. The European Marine Energy Centre(EMEC) has supported the deployment of more wave and tidal energy devices than any other single site. Subsequent to its establishment test facilities occurred also in many other countries around the world, providing services and infrastructure for device testing.\nThe \u00a310 million Saltire prize challenge was to be awarded to the first to be able to generate 100\u00a0GWh from wave power over a continuous two-year period by 2017 (about 5.7\u00a0MW average). The prize was never awarded. A 2017 study by Strathclyde University and Imperial College focused on the failure to develop \"market ready\" wave energy devices \u2013 despite a UK government investment of over \u00a3200 million over 15 years.\nPublic bodies have continued and in many countries stepped up the research and development funding for wave energy during the 2010s. This includes both EU, US and UK where the annual allocation has typically been in the range 5-50 million USD. Combined with private funding, this has led to a large number of ongoing wave energy projects (see List of wave power projects).\nPhysical concepts.\nLike most fluid motion, the interaction between ocean waves and energy converters is a high-order nonlinear phenomenon. It is described using the incompressible Navier\u2013Stokes equations\nformula_1where formula_2 is the fluid velocity, formula_3 is the pressure, formula_4 the density, formula_5 the viscosity, and formula_6 the net external force on each fluid particle (typically gravity). Under typical conditions, however, the movement of waves is described by Airy wave theory, which posits that\nIn situations relevant for energy harvesting from ocean waves these assumptions are usually valid.\nAiry equations.\nThe first condition implies that the motion can be described by a velocity potential formula_7:formula_8which must satisfy the Laplace equation,formula_9In an ideal flow, the viscosity is negligible and the only external force acting on the fluid is the earth gravity formula_10. In those circumstances, the Navier\u2013Stokes equations reduces to formula_11which integrates (spatially) to the Bernoulli conservation law:formula_12\nLinear potential flow theory.\nWhen considering small amplitude waves and motions, the quadratic term formula_13 can be neglected, giving the linear Bernoulli equation,formula_14and third Airy assumptions then implyformula_15These constraints entirely determine sinusoidal wave solutions of the form formula_16where formula_17 determines the wavenumber of the solution and formula_18 and formula_19 are determined by the boundary constraints (and formula_17). Specifically,formula_21The surface elevation formula_22 can then be simply derived as formula_23a plane wave progressing along the x-axis direction.\nConsequences.\nOscillatory motion is highest at the surface and diminishes exponentially with depth. However, for standing waves (clapotis) near a reflecting coast, wave energy is also present as pressure oscillations at great depth, producing microseisms. Pressure fluctuations at greater depth are too small to be interesting for wave power conversion.\nThe behavior of Airy waves offers two interesting regimes: water deeper than half the wavelength, as is common in the sea and ocean, and shallow water, with wavelengths larger than about twenty times the water depth. Deep waves are dispersionful: Waves of long wavelengths propagate faster and tend to outpace those with shorter wavelengths. Deep-water group velocity is half the phase velocity. Shallow water waves are dispersionless: group velocity is equal to phase velocity, and wavetrains propagate undisturbed.\nThe following table summarizes the behavior of waves in the various regimes:\nWave power formula.\nIn deep water where the water depth is larger than half the wavelength, the wave energy flux is\nwith \"P\" the wave energy flux per unit of wave-crest length, \"H\"\"m0\" the significant wave height, \"T\"\"e\" the wave energy period, \"\u03c1\" the water density and \"g\" the acceleration by gravity. The above formula states that wave power is proportional to the wave energy period and to the square of the wave height. When the significant wave height is given in metres, and the wave period in seconds, the result is the wave power in kilowatts (kW) per metre of wavefront length.\nFor example, consider moderate ocean swells, in deep water, a few km off a coastline, with a wave height of 3 m and a wave energy period of 8 s. Solving for power produces\nor 36 kilowatts of power potential per meter of wave crest.\nIn major storms, the largest offshore sea states have significant wave height of about 15 meters and energy period of about 15 seconds. According to the above formula, such waves carry about 1.7\u00a0MW of power across each meter of wavefront.\nAn effective wave power device captures a significant portion of the wave energy flux. As a result, wave heights diminish in the region behind the device.\nEnergy and energy flux.\nIn a sea state, the mean energy density per unit area of gravity waves on the water surface is proportional to the wave height squared, according to linear wave theory:\nwhere \"E\" is the mean wave energy density per unit horizontal area (J/m2), the sum of kinetic and potential energy density per unit horizontal area. The potential energy density is equal to the kinetic energy, both contributing half to the wave energy density \"E\", as can be expected from the equipartition theorem.\nThe waves propagate on the surface, where crests travel with the phase velocity while the energy is transported horizontally with the group velocity. The mean transport rate of the wave energy through a vertical plane of unit width, parallel to a wave crest, is the energy flux (or wave power, not to be confused with the output produced by a device), and is equal to:\nDue to the dispersion relation for waves under gravity, the group velocity depends on the wavelength \"\u03bb\", or equivalently, on the wave period \"T\".\nWave height is determined by wind speed, the length of time the wind has been blowing, fetch (the distance over which the wind excites the waves) and by the bathymetry (which can focus or disperse the energy of the waves). A given wind speed has a matching practical limit over which time or distance do not increase wave size. At this limit the waves are said to be \"fully developed\". In general, larger waves are more powerful but wave power is also determined by wavelength, water density, water depth and acceleration of gravity.\nWave energy converters.\nWave energy converters (WECs) are generally categorized by the method, by location and by the power take-off system. Locations are shoreline, nearshore and offshore. Types of power take-off include: hydraulic ram, elastomeric hose pump, pump-to-shore, hydroelectric turbine, air turbine, and linear electrical generator. \nThe four most common approaches are:\nPoint absorber buoy.\nThis device floats on the surface, held in place by cables connected to the seabed. The point-absorber has a device width much smaller than the incoming wavelength \u03bb. Energy is absorbed by radiating a wave with destructive interference to the incoming waves. Buoys use the swells' rise and fall to generate electricity directly via linear generators, generators driven by mechanical linear-to-rotary converters, or hydraulic pumps. Energy extracted from waves may affect the shoreline, implying that sites should remain well offshore.\nOne point absorber design tested at commercial scale by CorPower features a negative spring that improves performance and protects the buoy in very large waves. It also has an internal pneumatic cylinder that keeps the buoy at a fixed distance from the seabed regardless of the state of the tide. Under normal operating conditions, the buoy bobs up and down at double the wave amplitude by adjusting the phase of its movements. It rises with a slight delay from the wave, which allows it to extract more energy. The firm claimed a 300% increase (600\u00a0kW) in power generation compared to a buoy without phase adjustments in tests completed in 2024.\nSurface attenuator.\nThese devices use multiple floating segments connected to one another. They are oriented perpendicular to incoming waves. A flexing motion is created by swells, and that motion drives hydraulic pumps to generate electricity. The Pelamis Wave Energy Converter is one of the more well-known attenuator concepts, although this is no longer being developed.\nOscillating wave surge converter.\nThese devices typically have one end fixed to a structure or the seabed while the other end is free to move. Energy is collected from the relative motion of the body compared to the fixed point. Converters often come in the form of floats, flaps, or membranes. Some designs incorporate parabolic reflectors to focus energy at the point of capture. These systems capture energy from the rise and fall of waves.\nOscillating water column.\nOscillating water column devices can be located onshore or offshore. Swells compress air in an internal chamber, forcing air through a turbine to create electricity. Significant noise is produced as air flows through the turbines, potentially affecting nearby birds and marine organisms. Marine life could possibly become trapped or entangled within the air chamber. It draws energy from the entire water column.\nOvertopping device.\nOvertopping devices are long structures that use wave velocity to fill a reservoir to a greater water level than the surrounding ocean. The potential energy in the reservoir height is captured with low-head turbines. Devices can be on- or offshore.\nSubmerged pressure differential.\nSubmerged pressure differential based converters use flexible (typically reinforced rubber) membranes to extract wave energy. These converters use the difference in pressure at different locations below a wave to produce a pressure difference within a closed power take-off hydraulic system. This pressure difference is usually used to produce flow, which drives a turbine and electrical generator. Submerged pressure differential converters typically use flexible membranes as the working surface between the water and the power take-off. Membranes are pliant and low mass, which can strengthen coupling with the wave's energy. Their pliancy allows large changes in the geometry of the working surface, which can be used to tune the converter for specific wave conditions and to protect it from excessive loads in extreme conditions.\nA submerged converter may be positioned either on the seafloor or in midwater. In both cases, the converter is protected from water impact loads which can occur at the free surface. Wave loads also diminish in non-linear proportion to the distance below the free surface. This means that by optimizing depth, protection from extreme loads and access to wave energy can be balanced.\nFloating in-air converters.\nFloating in-air converters potentially offer increased reliability because the device is located above the water, which also eases inspection and maintenance. Examples of different concepts of floating in-air converters include:\nSubmerged wave energy converters.\nIn early 2024, a fully submerged wave energy converter using point absorber-type wave energy technology was approved in Spain. The converter includes a buoy that is moored to the bottom and situated below the surface, out of sight of people and away from storm waves.\nEnvironmental effects.\nCommon environmental concerns associated with marine energy include:\nThe Tethys database provides access to scientific literature and general information on the potential environmental effects of ocean current energy.\nPotential.\nWave energy's worldwide theoretical potential has been estimated to be greater than 2\u00a0TW. Locations with the most potential for wave power include the western seaboard of Europe, the northern coast of the UK, and the Pacific coastlines of North and South America, Southern Africa, Australia, and New Zealand. The north and south temperate zones have the best sites for capturing wave power. The prevailing westerlies in these zones blow strongest in winter.\nThe National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) estimated the theoretical wave energy potential for various countries. It estimated that the US' potential was equivalent to 1170 TWh per year or almost 1/3 of the country's electricity consumption. The Alaska coastline accounted for ~50% of the total.\nThe technical and economical potential will be lower than the given values for the theoretical potential.\nWave energy is known as a tertiary form of energy, where the sun (primary) heats the earth's surface unevenly leading to climate systems such as wind (secondary) to blow across the oceans. Although tidal currents also play a role, wave energy is primarily a product of wind energy. The transfer of energy from one source to another is greatly diminished due to the First Law of Thermodynamics, where not all of the energy is converted. Conversly, the concentration of energy (energy density) can be significantly increased compared to the energy source prior. For the conversion of wind to wave energy, this is due to water having a greater density than air, and again due to the uneven energy distribution. This makes many locations around the globe extremely favourable for wave energy conversion.\nChallenges.\nEnvironmental impacts must be addressed. Socio-economic challenges include the displacement of commercial and recreational fishermen, and may present navigation hazards. Supporting infrastructure, such as grid connections, must be provided. Commercial WECs have not always been successful. In 2019, for example, Seabased Industries AB in Sweden was liquidated due to \"extensive challenges in recent years, both practical and financial\".\nCurrent wave power generation technology is subject to many technical limitations. These limitations stem from the complex and dynamic nature of ocean waves, which require robust and efficient technology to capture the energy. Challenges include designing and building wave energy devices that can withstand the corrosive effects of saltwater, harsh weather conditions, and extreme wave forces. Additionally, optimizing the performance and efficiency of wave energy converters, such as oscillating water column (OWC) devices, point absorbers, and overtopping devices, requires overcoming engineering complexities related to the dynamic and variable nature of waves. Furthermore, developing effective mooring and anchoring systems to keep wave energy devices in place in the harsh ocean environment, and developing reliable and efficient power take-off mechanisms to convert the captured wave energy into electricity, are also technical challenges in wave power generation. As the wave energy dissipation by a submerged flexible mound breakwater is greater than that of a rigid submerged structure, greater wave energy dissipation is expected due to highly deformed shape of the structure.\nWave farms.\nA wave farm (wave power farm or wave energy park) is a group of colocated wave energy devices. The devices interact hydrodynamically and electrically, according to the number of machines, spacing and layout, wave climate, coastal and benthic geometry, and control strategies. The design process is a multi-optimization problem seeking high power production, low costs and limited power fluctuations. Nearshore wave farms have substantial impact on beach dynamics. For instance, wave farms significantly reduce erosion which demonstrates that this synergy between coastal protection and energy production enhances the economic viability of wave energy. Additional research finds that wave farms located near lagoons can potentially provide effective coastal protection during maritime spatial planning.\nPatents.\nA UK-based company has developed a Waveline Magnet that can achieve a levelized cost of electricity of \u00a30.01/kWh with minimal levels of maintenance."}
{"id": "761978", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761978", "title": "Lauris Norstad", "text": "Lauris Norstad (March 24, 1907 \u2013 September 12, 1988) was an American general officer in the United States Army and United States Air Force during the Cold War.\nEarly life and military career.\nLauris Norstad was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota to Martin and Marie Norstad. Martin Norstad, a Lutheran minister, was born in Iowa to Norwegian immigrants from Rogaland. Lauris earned his high school diploma from Red Wing's Central High School in 1925.\nHe was appointed to the United States Military Academy from 3rd Congressional District of Minnesota, graduating on June 12, 1930. Upon graduation, he was commissioned a second lieutenant of the Army cavalry. In September 1930, he entered Primary Flying School at March Field, California, and graduated from Advanced Flying School and was transferred to the Air Corps in June 1931. Going to Schofield Barracks, Hawaii, in January 1932, he was assigned to the 18th Pursuit Group, assuming command of it in July 1933. In March 1936 he was named adjutant of the Ninth Bomb Group there. Entering the \"short course\" the Air Corps Tactical School at Maxwell Field, Alabama, in September 1939, he graduated three months later and returned to Mitchel Field as officer in charge of the 9th Bomb Group Navigation School.\nMoving to Langley Field, Virginia, in July 1940, Norstad was adjutant of the 25th Bomb Group, and the following November he was named assistant chief of staff for intelligence of General Headquarters Air Force there. In February 1942 he was appointed a member of the Advisory Council to the commanding general of the Army Air Forces at Washington, DC.\nWorld War II.\nIn August 1942, Norstad was named assistant chief of staff for operations (A-3) of the Twelfth Air Force, going to England with it the following month in support of Operation Husky, and to Algiers, North Africa in October 1942. Here he met General Dwight Eisenhower, who said of him: \"It was on that occasion that I first met Lieutenant Colonel Lauris Norstad, a young air officer who so impressed me by his alertness, grasp of problems, and personality that I never thereafter lost sight of him. He was and is one of those rare men whose capacity knows no limit.\" During his time in North Africa, future atomic strike commander Paul Tibbets was briefly on his staff. In his autobiography, Tibbets claimed that he embarrassed Norstad in a strike planning meeting by being critical of his decision to bomb a target at low altitude, offering to lead it himself at 6000 feet if Norstad would fly with him as co-pilot, and Norstad was in the process of having him court-martialled before General Jimmy Doolittle got Tibbets transferred back to the US before Norstad could sink his career. Tibbets also claimed that Norstad was a \"social climber\" and political animal in the Air Force and that he aligned himself tightly with Hoyt Vandenberg and followed him up the chain of command.\nIn February 1943, he was promoted to brigadier general and assumed the additional duty of assistant chief of staff for operations of the Northwest African Air Forces. In December 1943 he was appointed director of operations of the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces at Algiers, moving with it to Caserta, Italy, two months later.\nNorstad was transferred to Washington, D.C. in August 1944, where he was deputy chief of Air Staff at Army Air Force Headquarters with added duty as chief of staff of the 20th Air Force. He was relieved of this additional duty May 8, 1945, and assumed additional duty as assistant chief of Air Staff for Plans at Army Air Force Headquarters. He was promoted to major general the following month.\nRelieved of his assignment as chief of staff of the 20th Air Force in February 1946, he continued as assistant chief of air staff for plans until the following June, when he was appointed director of the Plans and Operations Division of the War Department at Washington, DC.\nOn October 1, 1947, following the division of the War Department into the Departments of the Army and Air Force, Norstad transferred to the Air Force and was appointed deputy chief of staff for operations of the Air Force, and the following May assumed additional duty as acting vice chief of staff of the Air Force.\nSHAPE leadership.\nJoining the U.S. Air Forces in Europe in October 1950 General Norstad was commander in chief, U.S. Air Forces in Europe, with headquarters at Wiesbaden, Germany. On April 2, 1951 he assumed additional duty as commanding general of the Allied Air Forces in Central Europe under the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Powers in Europe. He was designated air deputy to the Supreme Allied Commander Europe, on July 27, 1953.\nAfter serving as air deputy to the Supreme Allied Commander, Europe (SACEUR) on November 20, 1956, Norstad was appointed as Supreme Allied Commander Europe, and commander in chief of U.S. European Command, the first Air Force officer to hold these posts. He served in the top post for European Command until November 1, 1962 and as SACEUR until December 31, 1962 when General Lyman Lemnitzer replaced him after his resignation over a disagreement with the withdrawal by President Kennedy of SACEUR's authority to decide on the use of tactical nuclear forces. Norstad initially encouraged France to develop its own nuclear capacity, but then abandoned the idea once he grew disillusioned with French President Charles de Gaulle's interference with NATO.\nLater years.\nGeneral Norstad retired from the USAF on January 2, 1963. After his military retirement, he became the Chief Executive Officer and President of Owens Corning from 1963 until 1972 and also served on the Board of Directors of Rand Corporation. Norstad was critical of the Vietnam War, and in 1967 proposed a halt to the bombing of North Vietnam, a unilateral ceasefire, and an end to American reinforcements sent to South Vietnam, followed by a summit to negotiate a treaty. He died on September 12, 1988, and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery, in Arlington, Virginia.\nAwards and decorations.\nGeneral Norstad's military awards included the following:"}
{"id": "761981", "revid": "1265764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761981", "title": "Bio (graffiti artist)", "text": "Bio is the tag of Wilfredo Feliciano. He started painting graffiti on the New York City Subway in 1980, and is one of the founding members of the TATS CRU.\nBio has been claimed to be one of the best stylists or letter masters throughout the graffiti movement worldwide, known for his numerous styles of letter, complex and wild styles and use of color.\nHe also has a passion for breaking."}
{"id": "761983", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761983", "title": "Ronald Norrish", "text": ""}
{"id": "761984", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761984", "title": "Ronald George Wreyford Norrish", "text": "Ronald George Wreyford Norrish FRS (9 November 1897 \u2013 7 June 1978) was a British chemist who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1967.\nEducation and early life.\nNorrish was born in Cambridge and was educated at The Perse School and Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He was a former student of Eric Rideal. From an early age he was interested in chemistry, walking up and down Cambridge University chemical laboratory admiring all the equipment. His father encouraged him to construct and equip a small laboratory in his garden shed in his garden and supplied all the chemicals he needed to conduct experiments. This apparatus now forms part of the Science Museum collections - reference shows copper water tank. He used to enter competitions for the analysis of mixtures sent round by the Pharmaceutical Journal and often won prizes. In 1915 Norrish won a Foundation Scholarship to Emmanuel College, but by adding a little to his age joined the Royal Field Artillery and served as a Lieutenant, first in Ireland and then on the Western Front.\nCareer and research.\nNorrish was a prisoner in World War I and later commented, with sadness, that many of his contemporaries and potential competitors at Cambridge had not survived the War. Military records show that 2nd Lieutenant Norrish of the Royal Artillery went missing (captured) on 21 March 1918.\nNorrish rejoined Emmanuel College as a Research Fellow in 1925 and later became Head of the Department of Physical Chemistry at the University of Cambridge.\nThe skill which Norrish displayed in his laboratory work problems marked him out amongst his contemporaries as an unusually gifted and energetic experimentalist, capable of making significant advances in photo-chemistry and gas kinetics.\nAwards and honours.\nNorrish was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1936. As a result of the development of flash photolysis, Norrish was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1967 along with Manfred Eigen and George Porter for their study of extremely fast chemical reactions. One of his accomplishments is the development of the Norrish reaction.\nAt Cambridge, Norrish supervised Rosalind Franklin, future DNA researcher and colleague of James Watson and Francis Crick, and experienced some conflict with her."}
{"id": "761987", "revid": "25321891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761987", "title": "Smith River (California)", "text": "The Smith River (Tolowa: ) flows from the Klamath Mountains to the Pacific Ocean in Del Norte County in extreme northwestern California, on the West Coast of the United States. The river, about 25.1 miles (40.4\u00a0km) long, all within Del Norte County, flows through the Rogue River \u2013 Siskiyou National Forest, Six Rivers National Forest, and Jedediah Smith Redwoods State Park.\nCourse.\nThe Smith River is formed by the confluence of its Middle Fork and North Fork, near the community of Gasquet. The Middle Fork, long, rises in Del Norte County, approximately northeast of Crescent City, and flows west. The North Fork Smith River, long, rises in Oregon on the northeast slope of Chetco Peak. The South Fork Smith River enters the Smith River near the community of Hiouchi. The fork rises on the eastern edge of the Smith River National Recreation Area, approximately east-northeast of Crescent City, flowing southwest and then northwest.\nFrom the confluence with the South Fork, the Smith River flows generally northwest, entering the Pacific Ocean near the community of Smith River, approximately north of Crescent City. Smith River estuary is recognized for protection by the California Bays and Estuaries Policy.\nWatershed.\nThe river's watershed catchment area is . It drains a rugged area of the western Klamath Mountains and Northern Outer California Coast Ranges, west of the Siskiyou Mountains, barely across the Oregon border, and north of the watershed of the Klamath River.\nBy average discharge, the Smith is the largest river system in California that flows freely along its entire course. The highly variable annual flow is approximately , with an average monthly high of in January, and an average low of in September. The all-time highest flow was on December 22, 1964, during the Christmas flood of 1964.\nThe river was named for the explorer Jedediah Smith.\nConservation.\nThe free-flowing nature of the river\u2014without a single dam along its entire length\u2014makes it especially prized among conservationists and is considered one of the crown jewels of the National Wild and Scenic River program. It is the only major California river never to have been dammed.\nCrossings.\nThe 1929 Smith River Bridge, also known as the Hiouchi Bridge or Bridge Wo. 1-06, was a rare example of a cantilever highway truss bridge within California, until it was demolished in 1989. The two-lane road bridge carried U.S. Highway 199 across the Smith River. The structural steel components were fabricated by Virginia Bridge &amp; Iron Co. in Roanoke, shipped via the Panama Canal to San Francisco, then reloaded to a smaller coastal vessel and shipped to Crescent City. The suspended center span was a Parker truss.\nIt was the first cantilever truss type designed by the California Division of Highways Bridge Department engineers in 1928. The bridge type was briefly popular during the late 1920s to the late 1930s in the United States, but because it was best suited to specialized applications only limited numbers were built in the state. Its design was influenced by the first Carquinez Bridge, designed by David B. Steinman and completed in 1927 (demolished 2007).\nStudies for the replacement of the Smith River Bridge began in 1987. U. S. Highway 199 provides a link between Highway 101 at Crescent City on the northern California coast, and Interstate Highway 5 inland at Grants Pass, Oregon. The proposal to replace the bridge was based on its functionally obsolete structural condition. Because of the high percentage of heavy truck traffic using the route, the bridge had sustained damage from high loads over the years, causing concern that the bridge was susceptible to collapsing.\nSince it had been determined eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places, it was required to be documented to Historic American Engineering Record\u2212HAER standards prior to its removal in 1989.\nIn popular culture.\nFor the 1983 movie \"Return of the Jedi\", the 3rd film in the \"Star Wars\" franchise, the Smith River and its surrounding forests and the community of Smith River were used as filming locations for most of the Endor scenes, although a miniaturized set was used for the battle sequences."}
{"id": "761988", "revid": "45581214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761988", "title": "Bio", "text": "Bio or BIO may refer to:"}
{"id": "761990", "revid": "718960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761990", "title": "List of college baseball awards", "text": "There are a number of national college baseball awards given each year. Here are the most prominent:"}
{"id": "761993", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761993", "title": "Serviciul Rom\u00e2n de Informatii", "text": ""}
{"id": "761994", "revid": "41105556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761994", "title": "Rich Stadium", "text": ""}
{"id": "761999", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=761999", "title": "Skyreach Centre", "text": ""}
{"id": "762000", "revid": "3835673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762000", "title": "Ice Palace", "text": "An ice palace is a castle-like structure made of ice. \nIce Palace may also refer to:"}
{"id": "762001", "revid": "51320740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762001", "title": "My Way", "text": "\"My Way\" is an English-language lyrical adaptation of the French song \"Comme d'habitude\", written by Paul Anka and released by Frank Sinatra in 1969. The original song was written by Jacques Revaux, Gilles Thibaut, and Claude Fran\u00e7ois, and was first recorded by the latter in 1967.\nThe song was a success for a variety of performers, including Sinatra, Elvis Presley, and Sid Vicious. Sinatra's version of \"My Way\" spent 75 weeks in the UK top 40, which is the 4th most weeks in UK chart history.\nBackground.\nIn 1967, Jacques Revaux wrote a ballad named \"For Me\", with English lyrics about a couple falling out of love. According to Revaux, the demo was then sent to Petula Clark, Dalida, and Claude Fran\u00e7ois, to no avail. Revaux rejected a version by Herv\u00e9 Vilard, the singer of the international hit \"Capri c'est fini\" and reworked the track into \"Comme d'habitude\" (\"As Usual\") with the help of Claude Fran\u00e7ois. It was released in November 1967 and was at the top of the French pop chart for one week in February 1968.\nIn 1968, seeking to capitalize on the song's European success, music publisher David Pitt asked a young David Bowie, then working as a for-hire songwriter, to adapt the lyrics of \"Comme d'habitude\" into English for release in English-speaking markets. Bowie wrote and recorded a demo version of his interpretation, \"Even a Fool Learns to Love\". However, the song was not formally recorded, and the project was shelved. (Bowie later developed his idea into a wholly original song, \"Life on Mars?\", which became a hit single for him and one of his signature songs.)\nPaul Anka heard the French original while on vacation in the south of France. He flew to Paris to negotiate the rights to the song. He acquired adaptation, recording, and publishing rights for the nominal, but formal, consideration of one dollar, subject to the provision that the three songwriters would retain their original share of royalty rights with respect to whatever versions Anka or his designates created or produced. Sometime later, Anka had a dinner in Florida with Frank Sinatra and \"a couple of Mob guys\" during which Sinatra said: \"I'm quitting the business. I'm sick of it; I'm getting the hell out.\"\nBack in New York, Anka re-wrote the original French song for Sinatra, subtly altering the melodic structure and changing the lyrical theme: At one o'clock in the morning, I sat down at an old IBM electric typewriter and said, 'If Frank were writing this, what would he say?' And I started, metaphorically, 'And now the end is near.' I read a lot of periodicals, and I noticed everything was 'my this' and 'my that'. We were in the 'me generation' and Frank became the guy for me to use to say that. I used words I would never use: 'I ate it up and spit it out.' But that's the way he talked. I used to be around steam rooms with the Rat Pack guys\u2014they liked to talk like Mob guys, even though they would have been scared of their own shadows. Anka finished the song at 5 in the morning: \"I called Frank up in Nevada\u2014he was at Caesars Palaceand said, 'I've got something really special for you. Anka asserted: \"When my record company caught wind of it, they were very pissed that I didn't keep it for myself. I said, 'Hey, I can write it, but I'm not the guy to sing it.' It was for Frank, no one else.\"\nOn December 30, 1968, Frank Sinatra recorded his version of the song in one take, featuring session drummer Buddy Saltzman among the band. \"My Way\" was released in early 1969 on the \"My Way\" LP and as a single. It reached No. 27 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and No. 2 on the Easy Listening chart in the US. In the UK, the single achieved a still unmatched record, becoming the recording with the most weeks inside the top 40, spending 75 weeks from April 1969 to September 1971. It spent a further 47 weeks in the top 75 but never bettered the No. 5 slot achieved upon its first chart run.\n\"Billboard\" said that the \"driving, lush and commercial Don Costa arrangement and production is an added plus to one of Sinatra's finest performances.\" \"Cash Box\" said that \"The powerful material is matched by a splendidly moving performance which is certain to win rave comments from programmers with teen and adult audiences.\"\nAlthough this work became Frank Sinatra's signature song, his daughter Tina has said the singer came to hate the song: \"He didn't like it. That song stuck and he couldn't get it off his shoe.\" \"He always thought that song was self-serving and self-indulgent.\"\nIn 2000, the 1969 release of \"My Way\" by Frank Sinatra on Reprise Records was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame.\nDespite asserting that he never intended to sing the song himself, Anka recorded \"My Way\" in 1969 on \"The John Davidson Show\", shortly after Sinatra's recording was released. Anka recorded it four other times as well: in 1996 (as a duet with Gabriel Byrne, performed in the film \"Mad Dog Time\"); in 1998 in Spanish as \"A mi manera\" (duet with Julio Iglesias); in 2007 (as a duet with Jon Bon Jovi); and in 2013 (as a duet with Garou).\nVersions.\nDavid Bowie wrote the first English-language lyrics to Claude Fran\u00e7ois' original song, though the lyrics and performance were only informally recorded and never commercially published. The version by Brook Benton reached number 49 in Canada in May 1970.\nDorothy Squires.\nIn the midst of Sinatra's multiple runs on the UK Singles Chart, Welsh singer Dorothy Squires also released a rendition of \"My Way\" in summer 1970. Her recording reached number 25 on the UK Singles Chart and re-entered the chart twice more during that year.\nElvis Presley.\nElvis Presley began performing the song in concert during the mid-1970s, despite Anka's suggestions that the song did not suit him. Nevertheless, on January 12 and 14, 1973, Presley sang the song during his satellite show \"Aloha from Hawaii via Satellite\", beamed live and on deferred basis (for European audiences, who also saw it in prime time), to 43 countries via Intelsat.\nOn October 3, 1977, several weeks after Presley's death, his live recording of \"My Way\" (recorded for the \"Elvis in Concert\" CBS-TV special on June 21, 1977) was released as a single. In the U.S., it reached number 22 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 pop singles chart in late 1977/early 1978 (higher than Frank Sinatra's peak position), number 6 on the \"Billboard\" Adult Contemporary chart, and went gold for its successful sales of over a million copies. The following year the single reached number 2 on the \"Billboard\" Country singles chart but went all the way to number 1 on the rival Cash Box Country Singles chart. In the UK, it reached number 9 on the UK Singles Chart.\nPresley's version is featured in the climax of the 2001 film \"3000 Miles to Graceland\" (Paul Anka appears in a cameo as a casino pit boss who loathes Presley).\nPresley's studio version of the song, recorded in 1971, was included on the fourth disc of \"\".\nSid Vicious.\nSex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious did a punk rock version of the song, in which a large body of the words were changed and the arrangement was sped up. The orchestral backing was arranged by Simon Jeffes.\nInterviewed in 2007, Paul Anka said he had been \"somewhat destabilized by the Sex Pistols' version. It was kind of curious, but I felt he [Sid Vicious] was sincere about it.\"\nFor the recording, which took place on April 10, 1977 with the rhythm section consisting of members of the French bands Magma and Voyage, Vicious and his girlfriend, Nancy Spungen, changed many of the words when it was recorded, including use of the swear words \"cunt\" and \"fuck\" as well as the word \"queer\" (slang for a gay man). Vicious's reference to a \"prat who wears hats\" was an in-joke directed towards Vicious's friend and Sex Pistols bandmate Johnny Rotten, who was fond of wearing different kinds of hats he would pick up at jumble sales. It is a rare example of a UK Top 10 hit that contains the word \"cunt\". Although other members of the band did not contribute to the initial track, guitarist Steve Jones later overdubbed lead guitar parts onto the song.\nLeonard Cohen said of the song: \nThe 1986 film \"Sid and Nancy\" features a scene where Gary Oldman, portraying Vicious, performs his version of \"My Way\" while filming the song's music video.\nVicious' version of this song appears in Martin Scorsese's 1990 film \"Goodfellas,\" where it plays over the end credits.\nPersonnel \nMargaret Mackie and Jamie Lee Morley.\nIn December 2019 footage of Margaret Mackie, a resident of Northcare Suites Care Home in Edinburgh who suffers from dementia, performing \"My Way\" with staff member Jamie Lee Morley, went viral after being posted online by Mackie's daughter.\nMorley later arranged to have the song professionally recorded and it was released in January 2020 as a charity single to raise funds for Alzheimer's Society and Dementia UK. The single peaked at number four in the iTunes top 40 UK Pop Songs live chart and number two in the Amazon best seller chart.\nY\u016bz\u014d Kayama.\nIn Japan, Y\u016bz\u014d Kayama, who is usually called the Japanese Frank Sinatra, performed \"My Way\" in 2008 in English. On April 23 and 30, 2015, as part of 2 vocal overdubbed sessions, Y\u016bz\u014d Kayama performed \"My Way\" with the earlier record of Frank Sinatra as a duet.\nPublic use.\nThe song is popularly associated with nostalgia to an individual's lifetime of events. Surveys beginning in 2005 have often reported that \"My Way\" has been the song most frequently played at funeral services in the UK. In her memoir \"Walk Through Walls\", Marina Abramovi\u0107 expressed her desire for Nina Simone's version of \"My Way\" to be performed by Anohni at her funeral.\n\"My Way\" is also a popular karaoke song around the world. However, it has been reported to cause numerous incidents of violence and homicide among karaoke singers in the Philippines, referred to in the media as the \"My Way\" killings, which has led to the song being banned in many Filipino bars.\nThe song's association with Sinatra led to Mikhail Gorbachev's policy of allowing other states in the Warsaw Pact to make their own policy decisions being nicknamed the Sinatra Doctrine, referencing the lyrics about doing things one's own way. The term was first used by Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennadi Gerasimov in 1987, who was quoted as saying \"We now have the Frank Sinatra doctrine. He has a song, \"I Did It My Way.\" So every country decides on its own which road to take.\"\nIn 2024, the song was played at Alexei Navalny's funeral. French singer Yseult sang it at the end of the 2024 Summer Olympics Closing Ceremony at Stade de France in Paris."}
{"id": "762003", "revid": "48994643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762003", "title": "George A. Norris", "text": "George Alexander Norris (24 December 1928 \u2013 12 March 2013) was a Canadian artist and sculptor. Norris is best known for his many public sculptures in Vancouver, British Columbia.\nBiography.\nGeorge Norris was born in Victoria, British Columbia on Christmas Eve 1928 to George and Christina Norris. He studied at the Vancouver School of Art, and later under the tutelage of Ivan Me\u0161trovi\u0107 at Syracuse University. In 1955 he won a British Council scholarship to study at the Slade School of Fine Art in London. Following this period he returned to Vancouver where he began his professional career.\nNorris's best-known works are \"The Crab\" (1967), located outside the H. R. MacMillan Space Centre in Vancouver, and the panels on the University of Victoria's McPherson Library (1963).\nIn 1960 Norris married Phyllis Piddington, who had grown up at \"Wychbury\" on Esquimalt, an estate home designed by Samuel Maclure. They had three children: Anna, Samuel, and Alexander. In 1993 the couple moved to Shawnigan Lake. After Norris suffered a head injury in a hiking accident, the couple moved to Victoria in 2008. Norris died on 12 March 2013 at age 84."}
{"id": "762007", "revid": "191757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762007", "title": "George W. Norris", "text": "George William Norris (July 11, 1861September 2, 1944) was a progressive American politician from Nebraska. He served in the United States House of Representatives as a Republican from 1903 to 1913, and in the United States Senate from 1913 to 1943. He became an Independent in 1936. Norris was chairman of the Senate's Judiciary Committee and Agriculture and Forestry Committee. \nGeorge W. Norris was a leader of progressive and liberal causes in Congress. He is best known as the man behind the creation of the Tennessee Valley Authority in 1933. Still in operation today, the Tennessee Valley Authority brought electricity to poor rural areas and constructed dams for flood control in the American Southeast. Norris was also the father of Nebraska's unicameral legislature\u2014the only one-house legislature in the United States\u2014and the author of the Twentieth Amendment. He was one of only six senators to vote against U.S. entry into World War I. Norris was known for his populist and pro-union ideology, his frequent defiance of the Republican Party, his non-interventionist foreign policy, and his intense crusades against what he characterized as \"wrong and evil\".\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt called him \"the very perfect, gentle knight of American progressive ideals\", and this has been the theme of all his biographers. He is one of eight senators profiled in President John F. Kennedy's \"Profiles in Courage\". A 1957 advisory panel of 160 scholars recommended Norris as the top choice for the five best senators in U.S. history.\nEarly life.\nGeorge William Norris was born in 1861 in York Township, Sandusky County, Ohio. He was the eleventh child of poor, uneducated farmers of Scots-Irish and Pennsylvania Dutch descent. He graduated from Baldwin University and earned his LL.B. degree in 1883 at the Northern Indiana Law School.\nHe moved west to practice law, settling in Beaver City, Nebraska. In 1889 he married Pluma Lashley; the couple had three daughters (Gertrude, Hazel, and Marian) before her 1901 death. The widower Norris married Ellie Leonard in 1903; they had no children.\nPolitical career.\nHouse insurgent.\nIn 1900 Norris relocated to the larger town of McCook, where he became active as a Republican in local politics. In 1902, running as a Republican, he was elected to the House of Representatives for Nebraska's 5th congressional district. In that election, he was supported by the railroads; however, in 1906 he broke with them, supporting Theodore Roosevelt's plans to regulate rates for the benefit of shippers, such as the merchants who lived in his district.\nRising to prominence as an insurgent in the House of Representatives, Norris led the 1910 revolt against House Speaker Joseph G. Cannon. At the time, the Speaker's position held enormous unchecked power and he was often called \"Czar Cannon.\" The Speaker was the chairman of the House Rules Committee, which decides which bills will be brought to the House floor for consideration. The Rules Committee then had just five members: the Speaker, two of his majority allies, and two minority members. The three-to-two ratio meant the Speaker almost always got his way.\nOn March 17, 1910, Norris introduced a resolution to expand the Rules Committee and remove the Speaker as chairman. Norris \"sought to create a legislative process independent of any one party leader while empowering different ideological blocs on the committee.\" The resolution was approved by a vote of 191\u2013156; more than 40 Republicans voted against Cannon. This move successfully ended the Speaker's czarist control over legislation by removing him from the Rules Committee and ensuring the committee was less susceptible to his influence.\nIn January 1911, Norris helped create the National Progressive Republican League and served as its vice president. He endorsed fellow Progressive Republican Robert M. La Follette, Sr. in the 1912 presidential primaries, even urging former president Theodore Roosevelt to bow out of the Republican primary in support of La Follette. When incumbent president William Howard Taft won the Republican nomination, Roosevelt formed the progressive Bull Moose Party in order to remain in the race (the party disbanded in 1916). Norris supported Roosevelt in the general election.\nSenator.\nIn 1912, with five House terms under his belt, Norris ran to represent Nebraska in the U.S. Senate. Norris won the election against incumbent Republican senator Norris Brown, and he began his 30-year tenure in the Senate on March 4, 1913. \nNotably, Senator Norris was the primary author and sponsor of the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution, also known as the \"Lame Duck\" Amendment. The amendment shortened the \"lame duck\" period between elections and the start of new terms, enhancing government efficiency and creating accountability for elected officials who had been voted out of office.\nNorris supported some of President Woodrow Wilson's domestic programs but became a firm isolationist, fearing that bankers were manipulating the country into war. In the face of enormous pressure from the media and the administration, Norris was one of only six senators to vote against the declaration of war on Germany in 1917.\nLooking at the war in Europe, he said, \"Many instances of cruelty and inhumanity can be found on both sides.\" Norris believed the government wanted to enter this war only because the wealthy had already aided the British financially in the war. He told Congress the only people who would benefit from the war were \"munition manufacturers, stockbrokers, and bond dealers\", adding that\n\"war brings no prosperity to the great mass of common and patriotic citizens... War brings prosperity to the stock gambler on Wall Streetto those who are already in possession of more wealth than can be realized or enjoyed.\"\nNorris joined the Irreconcilables, who opposed and defeated U.S. participation in the Treaty of Versailles and the League of Nations in 1919.\nAfter several terms, Norris's seniority gained him the chairmanships of the Agriculture and Forestry and Judiciary committees. As chairman of the Agriculture Committee, Norris blocked auto tycoon Henry Ford's proposal to buy the unfinished Wilson Dam in Muscle Shoals, Alabama and turn the property and surrounding areas into a modern metropolis. Norris was insistent that the property not be privatized, and instead be developed to provide public electricity and flood control. He twice succeeded in getting Congress to pass legislation for a federal electric power system based at Muscle Shoals, but it was vetoed by presidents Calvin Coolidge and Herbert Hoover. Norris said of Hoover: \nNot willing to accept defeat and give up his vision for improving quality of life in the rural, underserved Tennessee Valley region, Norris built upon the ideas of his vetoed Muscle Shoals Bill to create the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933. The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) soon became one of the very first (and longest-lasting) programs of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, and Norris's foremost legacy.\nAlthough a nominal Republican (which was essential to his seniority), Norris routinely attacked and voted against the Republican administrations of Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover. Norris supported Democrats Al Smith and Franklin D. Roosevelt for president in 1928 and 1932, respectively. As a Progressive Republican, \"Regular Republicans\" deemed him one of the \"Sons of the Wild Jackass\".\nNorris was a resolute teetotaler, battling against alcohol even when the crusade lost favor during the Great Depression. Prohibition was ended in 1933. He told voters prohibition means \"this greatest evil of all mankind is driven from the homes of the American people,\" even if it means \"we are giving up some of our personal rights and personal privileges.\"\nIn 1932, along with Representative Fiorello H. La Guardia (NY-20), Norris secured passage of the Norris\u2013La Guardia Act. It prohibited the practice of employers' requiring prospective employees to commit to not joining a labor union as a condition of employment (the so-called yellow-dog contract) and greatly limited the use of court injunctions against strikes.\nIn 1935, Norris voted along primarily with Democrats to adjourn the United States Senate as the chamber was deadlocked over the Costigan\u2013Wagner Bill; the anti-lynching bill was ultimately defeated. In spite of inaction on said bill, Norris led efforts to outlaw poll taxes.\nNorris is known for leading the conversion of Nebraska's bicameral legislature to the unicameral system. He believed the two-house system was unnecessarily complex, a drain on resources, and vulnerable to corruption and outside interference. Norris's initiative was passed by Nebraska voters in 1934, and the first session of Nebraska's unicameral legislature convened in January 1937. To this day, Nebraska remains the only state with a one-house legislature.\nTennessee Valley Authority and later career.\nThe major achievement of Senator Norris's career was the Tennessee Valley Authority Act of 1933, a plan he conceived and fought for several years to bring to fruition. The Act established the Tennessee Valley Authority, which brought electricity to widespread areas of the rural South, stimulated the regional economy, and mitigated destructive flooding. Today, TVA is the electricity provider for over 10 million Americans. In appreciation for his impact, the Norris Dam and Norris, Tennessee, a new planned city, were named after Norris. Norris was also the prime Senate supporter of the Rural Electrification Act, which expanded upon the benefits of TVA by bringing electrical service to underserved and unserved rural areas across the entire United States.\nNorris believed in the wisdom of the common people and in the progress of civilization. \"To get good government and to retain it, it is necessary that a liberty-loving, educated, intelligent people should be ever watchful, to carefully guard and protect their rights and liberties,\" Norris said in a 1934 speech, \"The Model Legislature\". The people were capable of being the government, he said, affirming his populist/progressive credentials. To alert the people, he called for transparency in government. \"Publicity,\" he proclaimed, \"is the greatest cure for evils which may exist in government\".\nSenator Norris was also a strong advocate for abolishing the electoral college, which he saw as a barrier to the voice of the American people. In fact, Norris initially included a provision to abolish the electoral college within his draft of the Twentieth Amendment, but was universally warned by his colleagues in Congress to strike that provision or they would not support the amendment. Of the electoral college, Norris wrote:\nIn 1936, Senator Norris left the Republican Party and was reelected to the Senate as an Independent with 43.8% of the vote. A staunch supporter of the New Deal among other progressive initiatives, the senator believed the Republican Party no longer represented the common American. Norris received a modicum of Democratic support when he departed the Republican Party, but remained an Independent and spent the rest of his career as such.\nNorris opposed Roosevelt's Judiciary Reorganization Bill of 1937 to pack the Supreme Court, and railed against corrupt patronage.\nSenator Norris gradually shifted his stance on isolationism and non-interventionism in the late 1930s as Japan continued to escalate tensions in Asia with aggressive expansionist military action. Siding against Japanese violence in China and Korea, Norris called the Japanese government \"disgraceful, ignoble, barbarous, and cruel, even beyond the power of language to describe\". He served as vice-president of the League of Friends of Korea, which advocated for Korea's independence.\nUnable to secure enough Democratic support in Nebraska, and having been ostracized by much of the Republican Party for his progressive policies, Norris was defeated for re-election in 1942 by Republican Kenneth S. Wherry. He departed from office saying, \"I have done my best to repudiate wrong and evil in government affairs.\"\nLegacy and memorials.\nNorris is one of eight senators profiled in John F. Kennedy's \"Profiles in Courage\", included for opposing Speaker Cannon's autocratic power in the House, for speaking out against arming U.S. merchant ships during the United States' neutral period in World War I, and for supporting the presidential campaign of Democrat Al Smith.\nThe principal north\u2013south street through downtown McCook, Nebraska is named George Norris Avenue. Norris's house in McCook is listed in the National Register of Historic Places, and is operated as a museum by the Nebraska State Historical Society.\nThe west legislative chamber of the Nebraska State Capitol, home of the unicameral legislature pioneered by Norris, was named after Norris in February 1984.\nGeorge W. Norris Middle School and Norris Elementary School, both in Omaha, Nebraska, as well as Norris School District 160 near Firth, Nebraska, memorialize the late Senator. When several public power districts in southeastern Nebraska merged into one in 1941, the new utility was named the Norris Public Power District in Senator Norris's honor. Norris Electric, an energy co-op with headquarters in Newton, Illinois, is named after Norris and his progressive efforts to electrify the nation.\nOn July 11, 1961, a four-cent stamp was issued in Senator Norris's honor. It depicts, in shades of green, a TVA dam in the upper left, with his portrait to the right. \"Gentle knight of progressive ideals\", a quote by President FDR on Norris's character, is inscribed at the bottom left, while the words \"George W. Norris\" appear below his portrait.\nIn 1961, Norris was inducted into the Nebraska Hall of Fame."}
{"id": "762010", "revid": "4444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762010", "title": "Take Me Out to the Ball-Game", "text": ""}
{"id": "762011", "revid": "28903366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762011", "title": "Cr\u00e8me de Noyaux", "text": "Cr\u00e8me de Noyaux () is an almond-flavored cr\u00e8me liqueur, although it is actually made from apricot kernels or the kernels of peach or cherry pits, which provide an almond-like flavor. Both Bols and Hiram Walker produce artificially colored red versions of the liqueur (either of which contribute the pink hue to Pink Squirrel cocktails) while Noyau de Poissy from France is available in both clear (\"blanc\") and barrel-aged amber (\"ambre\") versions.\nHistorically, cr\u00e8me de noyaux would contain trace amounts of hydrogen cyanide, which is poisonous. Although the chemical was not normally present in a dangerous intensity, bottles of 19th-century Noyaux left for decades in the cellar would sometimes have all the cyanide float up to the top, with lethal results for the drinker of the first glass. Dorothy Sayers used this peculiarity of the old Cr\u00e8me de Noyaux in her short story \"Bitter Almonds\" (collected in \"In the Teeth of the Evidence\", 1939).\nThe name comes from the French \"noyau\": \"kernel, pit, or core\". It is an ingredient in the Fairbank cocktail, the Pink Squirrel cocktail and in a cocktail called Old Etonian.\nIn 2013, Tempus Fugit Spirits recreated a 19th-century-style Cr\u00e8me de Noyaux \u2013 distilling both apricot and cherry pits, amongst other botanicals, and coloring the liqueur with red cochineal, as was done in the past. Care was taken to remove the trace elements of hydrogen cyanide produced in the process.\nNoyau de Poissy.\n\"Noyau de Poissy\" is a liqueur made from apricot kernel almonds, macerated or distilled in a superfine alcohol, in the presence, according to the recipes, of fine wine brandy, enriched with plants and subtly flavored.\nThere are therefore 2 Noyau de Poissy liqueurs:\nIt should be added:"}
{"id": "762012", "revid": "11096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762012", "title": "Charles Norris (etcher)", "text": "Charles Norris (24 August 1779 \u2013 16 October 1858) was an English topographical etcher and writer who is best known for his landscape work of the Welsh countryside, especially the area around Tenby.\nHistory.\nNorris was born in London in 1779, to John Norris (1721-1786), a wealthy merchant, by his mistress Deborah Busby. In 1800, Charles Norris moved to Milford in Wales, but by 1810 he had moved further down the coast to Tenby. He came to note as an etcher of landscapes of the Pembrokeshire countryside, but mainly of Tenby. Norris is seen as an important recorder of Medieval buildings of Pembrokeshire, due to the lack of alternative recordings during the period.\nIn the late 1810s, Norris was given a plot of land by the Burgesses of Tenby, in recognition of his work in promoting the town. Norris used the land to construct Waterwynch House, a building that he lived in until his death in 1858. In 1920 Waterwynch House became the residence of Lord and Lady Risdale.\nMany of Norris' original works are kept by Tenby Museum and Art Gallery."}
{"id": "762013", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762013", "title": "Charles G. Norris", "text": ""}
{"id": "762014", "revid": "3940708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762014", "title": "Charles Gilman Norris", "text": "Charles Gilman Norris (April 23, 1881 \u2013 July 25, 1945) was an American novelist. A native of Chicago, Norris worked as a journalist for some years before finding success as a novelist and playwright. His first book was \"The Amateur\" (1916). His other novels include \"Salt\" (1919), \"Brass: A Novel of Marriage\" (1921), \"Bread\" (1923), \"Pig Iron\" (1926), \"Seed: A Novel of Birth Control\" (1930), \"Zest\" (1933), \"Hands\" (1935), and \"Flint\" (1944). He also published three plays: \"The Rout of the Philistines\" (with Nino Marcelli, 1922), \"A Gest of Robin Hood\" (with Robert C. Newell, 1929), and \"Ivanhoe: A Grove Play\" (1936).\nCritiques of his work.\nNorris was well-respected by his literary peers. In a letter to Alida Bigelow dated September 23, 1919, F. Scott Fitzgerald advised the young woman to \"read \"Salt\" young girl so that you may know what life B.\" (spelling is that of Fitzgerald). \"The Oxford Companion to American Literature\" notes that Norris' novels dealt with \"such problems as modern education, women in business, hereditary and environmental influences, big business, ethics and birth control.\"\nFamily.\nHe was the brother of novelist Frank Norris and the husband of author Kathleen Norris. His granddaughter Kathleen Norris (1 Mar. 1935, San Francisco\u20138 Dec. 1967, San Francisco) was married to Prince Andrew Romanoff (1923-2021).\nNovels and short stories.\nBooks by Charles Norris in Theodore Dreiser's library"}
{"id": "762015", "revid": "1412854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762015", "title": "Orlando Arena", "text": ""}
{"id": "762018", "revid": "72499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762018", "title": "Florida Suncoast Dome", "text": ""}
{"id": "762019", "revid": "11555324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762019", "title": "Tropico (video game)", "text": "Tropico is a construction and management simulation video game developed by PopTop Software and published by Gathering of Developers in April 2001. Feral Interactive has developed and published a number of the games in the series for Mac OS X. The games see the player taking the role of \"El Presidente\", who rules a fictional Caribbean island country named Tropico during the Cold War era and beyond.\nThe game is tongue-in-cheek in its presentation of semi-democratic banana republics, using a great deal of humor while still referencing such topics as totalitarianism, electoral fraud, and the interventions of powerful companies (United Fruit is implied) and the Cold War superpowers (the United States and Soviet Union). This is similar to the previous 8bit Game \"Dictator\" by DK'Tronics, except in Dictator the success is measured by the amount you put away in your Swiss bank account, which is an offshore bank account.\n\"Tropico\" features Latin-styled Caribbean music, largely performed by Daniel Indart. The game won the \"Original Musical Composition\" award during the 5th Annual Interactive Achievement Awards.\n\"Tropico\" has several expansion packs and new editions, including \"Tropico: Paradise Island\", plus a combined copy of the original and \"Paradise Island\" titled \"Tropico: Mucho Macho Edition\" (released on June 27, 2002). A sequel, \"\", was released on April 8, 2003. The third game in the series \"Tropico 3\", was released in the autumn of 2009. A fourth game, \"Tropico 4\", was released on August 26, 2011, and a fifth game, \"Tropico 5\", was released on May 23, 2014. \"Tropico 6\" was released on March 29, 2019.\nThe game was re-released in the three-game pack \"Tropico Reloaded\", packing the original game, the expansion pack \"Tropico: Paradise Island\", and the sequel \"Tropico 2: Pirate Cove\" into one release. It is available both digitally on Steam and GOG.com, and on disc.\nGameplay.\nRegardless of any other stated victory condition, the main goal of any \"Tropico\" game is to stay in power. If the island's populace disapproves of the player's actions, they may vote their leader out of office. Individual factions and powers can also end or disrupt El Presidente's rule. Rebels can defeat the army and storm the Presidential palace. If the army is dissatisfied, it can stage a coup d'\u00e9tat.\nIf \"El Presidente\" manages to stay in positive view of the Soviet Union and the United States they will supply him with foreign aid money. If either of the Cold War superpowers becomes unhappy with the player's regime, it may launch an invasion to overthrow it. The superpowers may build a military base on Tropico, protecting the island from the other and offering monthly payments. If an army base is established in the country, it may ask for specific tasks, and low satisfaction will lead them to overthrow \"El Presidente\".\n\"Tropico\" can be played in two gameplay modes: scenario or custom game/random map. Scenarios are predetermined game conditions with defined goals that must be accomplished in order to win. The game includes several scenarios, each with a stated level of difficulty. Custom games allow virtually all starting conditions to be controlled. The player can customize the map of the island, adjusting its size and steepness to personal preference. Many other aspects of gameplay, such as political and economic difficulty, can also be customized to make the game easier or more difficult. The custom game also allows the player to choose how many game years the simulation will run for (a minimum of 10 years, a maximum of 70 with the game basically run 1950 to 2000), and what conditions will determine victory (if any). The game also includes a tutorial level, which teaches the player the game mechanics and controls of the game.\nThe player is able to issue a number of governmental edicts, some of which require funding or the availability of particular buildings. Edicts are used to achieve various game effects, from appeasing one of the superpowers by openly praising them, to instating martial law or giving a tax break to the populace.\nBefore starting a custom game, the player may either design their own \"El Presidente\" character or select one from a list of pre-made leaders. These include real-life figures such as Che Guevara, Fidel Castro, and Augusto Pinochet, fictional rulers such as Hernando Blanco and Sancho Baraega. Lou Bega, who is a pop musician commonly known at the time for the song \"Mambo No. 5\", is also available as a dictator persona. After the player has chosen a leader, the player can customize their profile by specifying the strengths and flaws of their character's personality, the means by which they came into power and their social background. These choices affect the attitudes of factions and superpowers towards the player, and can also alter the costs or consequences of in-game actions.\nThe game calculates a score for the player at the end of the game. This score is based on a variety of factors, including the happiness of the island's citizens, the health of the island's economy, how much money the player has set aside for their retirement in a Swiss bank account, and the level of difficulty chosen at the start of the game.\nPolitics and factions.\nWhile \"El Presidente\" has absolute rule over the lives of the Tropican people, politics play an important role in gameplay. The player must decide whether to hold free elections, attempt to manipulate the election by intimidating voters, or to dispense with any pretense of democracy and run the island as a dictatorship. These decisions will have direct effects on the Tropican people's happiness, liberty, and respect for the leader. Often the player is judged on \"democracy expectations\" versus \"democracy results\", which will influence the public's opinion of their leadership. Having free elections increases the respect of El Presidente among the population, but if their support gets too low, there is the risk of El Presidente losing the elections and being forced to resign. A successful leader will have to either meet the needs of the populace, the political factions, and the wider political world, or establish and police a totalitarian military dictatorship and watch the army carefully.\nIf pushed enough the Tropican people may choose to rebel against \"El Presidente\", conducting guerrilla attacks against various buildings on the island; if the rebellion grows strong enough this will result in the overthrow of the player. A sufficiently dissatisfied military will likely instigate a coup. Often threats to power can be measured based on a unit's leadership qualities and his courage. For example, a citizen with poor leadership but strong courage may not be likely to start a rebellion but may be willing to join it.\nMost Tropicans are aligned into several conflicting political factions, with some citizens being a member of one or more such factions:\nFactions can be manipulated both positively and negatively mainly through edicts and buildings. For example, the player may choose to bribe the leaders of factions to attempt to curry their favor or, if the factions' leaders become too much of a threat, he can have them assassinated or imprisoned. The island's media outlets can be directed to distribute propaganda for a particular faction, and schools can be either parochial or military in nature.\nDevelopment.\nThe game was developed in 23 months.\nOrigin.\nThe Banana Republic idea was the first of these that we agreed on. It was original, though not radical. Everyone likes building games, but the two predominant models, set out by \"Civilization\" and \"SimCity\", have been cloned to death. This would be a fresh take on the building game concept. Moreover, the Latin American setting provides a rich background for the political side of the game. Building a prosperous country in and of itself is not enough \u2013 you\u2019ve got to bribe your generals and repress your dissidents to avoid a coup-d'etat or a mass uprising.The singer Lou Bega was included as part of a licensing deal that also saw one of Bega's songs integrated into the German release of \"Tropico\".\nExpansion pack.\nAfter the completion of \"Tropico\", Steinmeyer was uninterested in developing further games in the series. However, later in 2001, Take-Two Interactive requested an expansion pack to capitalize on the game's success.\nReception.\nSales.\n\"Tropico\" was a commercial success; Geoff Keighley of \"Computer Gaming World\" declared it one of Gathering of Developers' few \"certified hits\". In the United States, it claimed fifth place on NPD Intelect's computer game sales chart for the week of April 22. It placed sixth the following two weeks, before holding at tenth for the May 13 \u2013 June 2 period. On NPD Intelect's monthly charts, \"Tropico\" took places nine and 19 in May and June, respectively. According to NPD, the game sold 67,000 copies in the United States by October 2001.\nAccording to Phil Steinmeyer, the game's highest sales came from \"the U.S., Germany, and Britain, respectively\", in its first seven weeks. He noted that \"Tropico\" did not fall from the top 10 of these markets' computer game sales charts during the period, and that it reached #1 on Germany's chart. As of November 2007, \"Tropico\" had sold 1 million copies in total.\nCritical reviews.\nJohn Lee of \"Next Generation\" summarized, \"\"Tropico\" tends to be slow, with no tedium-breaking clash of arms like other city builders, but there's enough innovation to give it charm.\" In \"Game Informer\", Kristian Brogger praised the game's visuals, music and \"wonderfully intuitive camera system\". He called the game \"an absolute must-have for anyone who found anything from \"SimCity\" to \"\" even moderately interesting.\"\n\"Tropico\" received the \"Outstanding Achievement in Original Musical Composition\" award from the Academy of Interactive Arts &amp; Sciences during the 5th Annual Interactive Achievement Awards. It also won the \"Best Music\" awards from \"Computer Games Magazine\", \"Computer Gaming World\" and GameSpot. \"Computer Gaming World\"s staff called the score \"brilliant\" and summarized it as \"easily the year's most evocative soundtrack\". \"Tropico\" was also nominated for GameSpot's \"Best Single-Player Strategy Game\" and \"The Electric Playground\"s \"Best Strategy Game for PC\" awards, which ultimately went to \"Civilization III\" and \"Etherlords\", respectively.\n\"Paradise Island\".\nThe Paradise Island expansion pack adds new in-game music, more edicts, and new buildings, especially factories and tourism-related facilities. It also acts as a patch, fixing problems in the original game release. As a result, buildings can now be rotated, fully refunded if cancelled prior to construction, and the construction process is now significantly faster.\nTrivia.\nThe Presidential Palace, main building of the game, is modeled after Palacio de Valle in Cuba.\nLegacy.\n\"Tropico\" was followed by a sequel, \"\", in 2003. While PopTop remained involved as the sequel's producer, the game was developed by Frog City Software. \"Tropico 2\" was the final game in the series to be published by Take-Two Interactive. No further entries were greenlit until November 2008, when Kalypso Media bought the \"Tropico\" intellectual property from Take-Two and announced \"Tropico 3\", developed by Bulgaria's Haemimont Games. The game was released in 2009. Afterward, Haemimont Games developed \"Tropico 4\" (2011) and \"Tropico 5\" (2014), both published by Kalypso. \"Tropico 6\", developed by Limbic Entertainment and published again by Kalypso Media, was announced in June 2017 and released on March 29, 2019. In December 2020, Realmforge Studios announced that it would take over its future development of the series."}
{"id": "762020", "revid": "18872885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762020", "title": "Lagares (Penafiel)", "text": "Lagares is former civil parish in the municipality of Penafiel, Portugal. In 2013, the parish merged into the new parish Lagares e Figueira.\nLagares is a village with an area of 10.92\u00a0km\u00b2. It is located in the west of the country in the east part of the distrito (district) of Porto. Lagares is located nearly 30\u00a0km from the Atlantic. The population of the village is 2463 inhabitants. One of its major tourist attractions is Aldeia de Quintadona."}
{"id": "762021", "revid": "21870052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762021", "title": "Benjamin Norris", "text": "Benjamin Norris is the name of:"}
{"id": "762022", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762022", "title": "Benjamin F. Norris", "text": ""}
{"id": "762023", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762023", "title": "Benjamin Franklin Norris", "text": ""}
{"id": "762025", "revid": "36733576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762025", "title": "Lexus IS", "text": "The is a compact executive car (D-segment in Europe) sold by Lexus, a luxury division of Toyota, since 1998. The IS was originally sold under the nameplate in Japan from 1998 until 2005 (the word \"Altezza\" is Italian for 'height' or 'highness'). The IS was introduced as an entry-level sport model positioned below the ES in the Lexus lineup. It was the smallest car in the Lexus lineup until the introduction of the CT in 2011.\nThe first-generation Altezza (codename XE10) was launched in Japan in October 1998, while the Lexus IS\u00a0200 (GXE10) made its debut in Europe in 1999 and in North America as the IS\u00a0300 (JCE10) in 2000. The first-generation models were powered by a straight-six engine and available in sedan and wagon variants. The second-generation IS (codename XE20) was launched globally in 2005 with V6-powered IS 250 (GSE20) and IS 350 (GSE21) and Diesel-powered IS 200d/220d (ALE20) sedan models, followed by a high-performance V8 sedan version, the IS F, in 2007, and coup\u00e9 convertible versions, the IS 250 C and IS 350 C, in 2008. The third-generation Lexus IS premiered in January 2013 and includes the V6-powered IS 250 and IS 350, turbocharged IS 200t/300, hybrid IS 300h and performance-tuned F Sport variants. The IS designation stands for \"Intelligent Sport\".\nFirst generation (XE10; 1998).\nProduced as a direct competitor to the luxury sports sedans of the leading European luxury marques, the XE10 series Toyota Altezza and Lexus IS was designed with a greater performance emphasis than typically seen on prior Japanese luxury vehicles. The engineering work was led by Nobuaki Katayama from 1994 to 1998 under the 038T program code. Design work which had been done in 1995 by Tomoyasu Nishi was frozen in 1996 and filed under patent number 1030135 on 5 December 1996, at the Japan Patent Office. At its introduction to Japan, it was exclusive to Japanese dealerships called \"Toyota Netz Store\", until Lexus was introduced to Japan in 2006. The Japan-sold AS200 Altezza sedan and AS300 Altezza Gita correspond to the Lexus IS 200 and IS 300 models respectively, as sold in markets outside of Japan. The Lexus IS' primary markets were North America, Australia, and Europe. The Altezza Gita was a hatchback-station wagon version sold in Japan and was known in the US and Europe as the Lexus IS SportCross. The AS300 Altezza Gita was the only Altezza with the 2JZ-GE engine; in export markets this engine was available in the sedan models as well as the Lexus IS300 Sedan.\n1998\u20132000.\nIntroduced in 1998 with the AS200 (chassis code GXE10) and RS200 (chassis code SXE10) sedans, the compact vehicle was produced using a shortened, front-engine, rear-wheel-drive midsize platform, allowing Japanese buyers to take advantage of tax savings imposed by Japanese government regulations concerning vehicle engine displacement (but not exterior dimensions, as the car was 20\u00a0mm wider than the 1,700\u00a0mm standard), and adapted parts from the larger second-generation Aristo/GS. The 2.0-litre \"1G-FE\" straight-six powered AS200 (GXE10, sedan) was equipped with a four-speed automatic as standard. The 2.0-litre \"3S-GE\" straight-four-powered RS200 (SXE10, sedan) was equipped a six-speed manual transmission, while a five-speed automatic was optional. \nThe design received critical acclaim at its 1998 launch and was awarded Japan's \"Car of the Year\" honor for 1998\u20131999. A few months later, Lexus began marketing the IS 200 equivalent models in Europe. The IS 200 in Europe was rated at , with a top speed of , and acceleration time of 9.3 seconds. The styling cues of the rear lamp clusters on the first-generation models were copied by a number of after-market accessory manufacturers for applications on other vehicles. This iconic style of one or more internal lamp units, covered with a clear (or tinted) perspex cover made popular by Lexus, became known in many circles as 'Lexus-style' or 'Altezza lights'. The taillight style became so popular, that it influenced the development of clear-covered LED taillamps that only revealed their colour when illuminated. The XE10's chief engineer was Nobuaki Katayama, while the chief test driver and test engineer was Hiromu Naruse.\n2000\u20132003.\nIn July 2000, a hatchback/station wagon model, the AS300 (chassis code JCE10), was introduced featuring a 3.0-litre \"2JZ-GE\" straight-six engine. Equipped with rear- or all-wheel drive (JCE10, RWD Gita wagon; JCE15, 4WD Gita wagon), the AS300 was only available with an automatic gearbox; a five-speed automatic for the RWD Gita wagon and a four-speed automatic for the 4WD Gita wagon. The six-cylinder version (\"2JZ-GE\") was only available in Japan on the Gita models. Additionally, a six-speed manual transmission was introduced to the AS200 (chassis code GXE10). In the US, the IS 300 sedan debuted in July 2000 as 2001 model and the wagon debuted in 2001 as a 2002 model with the same 3.0-litre six-cylinder engine (the 2.0-litre six-cylinder was not available), while in Europe, the IS 300 joined the IS 200 in the model lineup. The IS 300 models were initially only available with the five-speed automatic transmission in all markets. A five-speed manual \u2013 the six-speed manual from the 2-litre model was not designed for the torque put out by the larger 2JZ-GE engine \u2013 was made available in the US in 2001 for the 2002 model year. The manual option was not available on the SportCross wagon. Lexus aimed for 15 percent of American IS 300 sales to be manuals. Visually, the exterior of the European IS 200 Sport and 300 were almost identical, the only differences being the boot insignia and the larger-engined model initially having clear front indicators (later generalized throughout the range).\nThe first-generation IS' interior featured unique elements not typically found in other Lexus models. These included a chrome metal ball shifter (USDM &amp; European market, other markets received an optional leather-trimmed shifter), (optional) pop-up navigation screen, and chronograph-style instrument panel (with mini gauges for temperature, fuel economy, and volts). For the European and Australian markets, the IS 300 gained full leather seats rather than the leather/Ecsaine of the 200, plus auto-dimming rear view and side mirrors, and HID headlamps. In the US, the Environmental Protection Agency listed the IS 300 as a subcompact car; although it technically had enough overall volume to be called a compact, rear seat room exhibited subcompact dimensions.\nThe US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) crash test results in 2001 gave the IS 300 the maximum five stars in the Side Driver and Side Rear Passenger categories, and four stars in the Frontal Driver and Frontal Passenger categories. The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) rated the IS \"Good\" overall for frontal collisions and \"Good\" in all six measured front impact categories.\nFor the first-generation IS in the North American market, sales hit a high of 22,486 units in 2001; subsequent sales years were less than forecast, and below the 10,000-unit mark in 2004. The IS 200 fared better relative to sales targets in Europe and Asia, while still well short of the sales volume achieved by the Mercedes-Benz C-Class (??W203??) and other, mostly German-made competitors. This trend was indicative of Lexus' smaller global status; while Lexus' range of cars was very successful in North America, the marque's sales lagged behind its German rivals in Europe. In Europe, the lack of a manual gearbox option for the IS 300 may have limited sales in contrast to its rivals, the BMW 3 Series (E46 or E90) and the Mercedes C-Class.\nIn 2000, TTE introduced a compressor kit for the IS 200 in the European market. An Eaton supercharger at 0.3-bar pressure increased the power output to without sacrificing fuel consumption (+3.3%). The kit was initially available as an aftermarket fitment, but could also be obtained as OEM Lexus accessory on newer cars through the official Lexus dealer network and was fully covered by the standard warranty. This variant was discontinued when the IS 300 was introduced in the European market.\n2003\u20132005.\nIn 2003 for the 2004 model year, the IS line received a minor facelift (designed by Hiroyuki Tada). On the exterior, was a redesigned 11-spoke wheel design, redesigned fog lamps, and smoked surrounding trim for the headlamps and taillamps. On the interior, a 2-position memory function was added for the driver seat, a maintenance indicator lamp, automatic drive-away door locking system, a storage compartment on the dash (for models without the navigation system) and updated trim highlights.\nAn official concept model, the MillenWorks-built Lexus IS 430 was unveiled at the SEMA Show in Las Vegas, Nevada, in 2003. The IS 430 prototype was an IS 300 fitted with a 4.3-litre V8 from the GS 430. Lexus dubbed the IS\u00a0430 a one-off with no plans for production. In Europe, Toyota Team Europe (TTE) installed a supercharged 4.3-litre V8 into an IS 300 bodyshell, the result was a ECE sedan.\nSecond generation (XE20; 2005).\n2005\u20132008.\nThe second-generation of the IS was introduced at the Geneva Motor Show in March 2005 as a pre-production model, with the production version debuting at the 2005 New York International Auto Show that April. Sales of the sedan began worldwide in September and October 2005 as a 2006 model, with the Toyota Altezza name discontinued due to the introduction of the Lexus marque in Japan, and the slow-selling \"SportCross\" station wagon version discontinued from the lineup altogether.\nThe second-generation IS marked the next introduction of Lexus' L-finesse design philosophy on a production vehicle, following the premiere of the 2006 GS executive sedan. The sedan's exterior design featured sleeker, coup\u00e9-like contours, a fastback profile, and a repeated arrowhead motif in the front fascia and side windows. The IS sedan has a .\nProduction of the sedan commenced in September 2005 at the Miyata plant in Miyawaka, Fukuoka, supplemented in October 2005 with the Tahara plant at Tahara, Aichi. Production of the IS F started in December 2007 at Tahara. The facility at Miyata began manufacture of the IS C in April 2009.\nIS F.\nIn North America, IS models sold at launch included the IS 250 and IS 350 sedans; in parts of Europe, the IS models sold by Lexus included the IS 250 and IS 220d sedans. The IS 250 was also available in Australia, New Zealand, Thailand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Chile (automatic only), South Africa and South Korea.\nAll second-generation IS models offered a more typical Lexus interior compared to the previous generation with a focus on luxurious amenities. The interior is equipped memory leather seats, lightsaber-like electroluminescent instrument display lighting and LED interior lighting accents, the choice of faux-metallic or optional Bird's Eye Maple wood trim (aluminium composite on the IS F), and SmartAccess keyless entry with push-button start. Options ranged from touchscreen navigation with backup camera to a Mark Levinson premium sound system and Dynamic Radar Cruise Control.\nOn 6 December 2006, Lexus officially confirmed the existence of a high-performance variant of the second-generation IS called the IS F. The Lexus IS F sedan (USE20) premiered at the 2007 North American International Auto Show on 8 January 2007 as the launch product of Lexus' F marque lineup of performance-focused vehicles. The IS F went on sale several months later in North America and Europe. The IS F was capable of accelerating from in 4.2 seconds, and had an electronically limited top speed of .\nThe introduction of the second-generation IS model marked a resurgence in sales for the IS line, with a 332% increase overall in 2006 compared to the previous year. In its first year of sales, the IS sold over 49,000 units, making it one of the ten best-selling luxury cars in the US. The IS line later took a median position in the entry-luxury market; in 2008 it sold behind the variants of the BMW 3 Series, Mercedes-Benz C-Class, and Cadillac CTS, and ahead of the Acura TL, Audi A4, and Infiniti G sedan. Outside the US, the Lexus IS spearheaded Lexus' growing sales efforts in Europe, Australia, and South Africa, becoming the best-selling model in Lexus' lineup in many of the aforementioned markets. In the US, as of 2011, the Lexus IS was the third place best-selling vehicle from the marque after the Lexus RX and Lexus ES.\n2008\u20132010.\nIn 2008, the IS line received a facelift, and the suspension and steering were retuned for improved stability and control. After three years with only one body style, the IS returned with a second body style, this time as a coup\u00e9 convertible, on 2 October 2008 when the IS 250 C debuted at the Paris Motor Show. A more powerful IS 350 C also became available, with engine specifications analogous to those on the sedan models. The IS convertible went on sale in Europe in 2009, in North America in May 2009, and an IS 300 C was also produced for certain regions. The mid-cycle refresh in 2008 saw slight styling revisions to the interior.\n2010\u20132013.\nIn 2010, coinciding with the second IS line refresh, the revised diesel IS 220d was detuned for improved fuel consumption figures but lowered power output by . Building on its \"F Sport\" line of parts and accessories for the IS 250/350, Lexus added factory-produced F Sport IS models in 2010. This facelift also includes further interior updates for the IS line.\n2013\u20132015.\nChanges to the IS C include Intelligent Transport Systems and Dedicated Short Range Communication units become standard equipment. Change to US model of F SPORT Package includes revised silver metallic interior trim. Change to Japan F SPORT Package includes dark rose interior colour, medium silver ornament panel. F SPORT performance accessories include 19-inch forged wheels (set of four), with hardware; brake upgrades, front axle set, rear axle set, carbon fibre engine cover, carbon fibre leather shift knob, floor mats (four-piece set), lowering spring set, performance air intake, performance dual exhaust, shock set (set of four), sway bar set Japan models went on sale on 22 August 2013. Early models include IS 250C, IS 350C. US models went on sale as 2014 model year vehicle. Early models include IS 250C, IS 350C.\nChanges to IS F include a carbon fibre rear spoiler, front LED fog lamp, all sports seats include embossed 'F' logo at head rests, Alcantara upholstery door trim and center console, standard Intelligent Transport Systems, and Dedicated Short Range Communication unit. IS F Dynamic Sport Tuning model (available in Japan) includes engine power increase via low-friction piston and pump, strengthened body contact, carbon fibre front spoiler/rear diffuser, lower body weight via titanium muffler, orange colour brake caliper with LEXUS logo, orange accent engine headcover, carbon interior panel on the centre console and door switch base with nameplate, choice of 7 body colours including starlight black glass flake. Japan models went on sale on 5 September 2013. US models went on sale as 2014 model year vehicle.\nSafety.\nSafety equipment on the IS models ranged from multiple airbags to stability control systems. A Pre-Collision System (PCS) was the first offered in the entry-luxury performance sedan market segment. NHTSA crash test results rated the second-generation IS the maximum five stars in the Side Driver and Rollover categories, and four stars in the Frontal Driver, Frontal Passenger, and Side Rear Passenger categories; Insurance Institute for Highway Safety scores were \"Good\" overall score for all fourteen measured categories in the front and side impact crash tests.\nPowertrains.\nThe IS 250, IS 350 and IS F are equipped with a D-4 (IS250) or D-4S (IS350 and IS F) direct injection system with direct fuel injectors (D-4 and D-4S) and port fuel injectors (D-4S only). Certain Asian markets have the IS 300 (GSE22) model without direct injection.\nThird generation (XE30; 2013).\nConcept model.\nThe LF-CC concept unveiled at the 2012 Paris Motor Show and later Auto Shanghai 2013 is a rear-wheel drive coup\u00e9 incorporating designs from LF-LC concept and Lexus LFA. Main features include a 2.5-litre four-cylinder Atkinson cycle petrol engine with D-4S direct injection technology, water-cooled permanent magnet electric motor, 3 LED-projector headlamp design, Daytime Running Lights (DRLs) integrated into the upper bumper surface, rear spoiler integrated within the boot lid, L-shaped combination lamps with three-dimensional design, Fluid Titanium body colour, 2-zone dashboard, seats, door panels and instrument binnacle bonnet upholstered in amber leather.\n2013\u20132016.\nThe production version of the IS was introduced at the North American International Auto Show in January 2013, followed by the 2013 Auto Shanghai. Exterior design work was done by Masanari Sakae during 2010\u20132011 and the F Sport models were styled by Yuki Isogai in 2011. For the car's third generation, Lexus also hinted at a revival for the IS SportCross station wagon, but that didn't end up happening.\nThe IS F Sport models include enhanced handling and performance, Adaptive Variable Suspension and Variable Gear Ratio Steering (IS 350). Not only do the F Sport\nmodels handle differently, but they are more aggressively styled to set them apart from the base production models. F-Sport styling includes an edition specific F-Sport pattern front grille, F-Sport logo badges, and five spoke split graphite wheels; the cabin includes carbon fibre-like trim, extra bolstered performance seats, an all-black headliner, and a moving vessel gauge cluster (inspired by the Lexus LFA) that displays navigation and audio information. The F-Sport models have an edition specific Ultra White exterior and Rioja Red interior. The 2014 model year also served as the first year to offer all-wheel drive in the IS F Sport line up.\nInternational models went on sale in mid-2013. Early models included the IS 250 RWD, IS 250 AWD, IS 300h and IS 350 RWD. The hybrid IS 300h model is sold in Europe, Japan, and select international markets.\nUS models went on sale as 2014 model year vehicles on 28 June 2013. Early models include IS 250 RWD, IS 250 AWD, IS 350 RWD, IS 350 AWD. In 2015, for the 2016 model year, the IS 250 was discontinued and replaced by the rear wheel drive only IS 200t. The IS 300 is only offered with all-wheel drive, while the top-of-the-line IS 350 can be ordered with either drivetrain. The IS AWD versions use a full-time all-wheel drive system that utilizes a planetary gearset center differential coupled with a multi-disc clutch to act as the slip limiting device. The planetary gearset provides a 30:70 front-to-rear torque split under normal conditions for handling agility, however the system can allow for a torque split of up to 50:50 to control wheel slip. In August 2017, for the 2018 model year, the IS 300 RWD changed to using the 2.0-litre four-cylinder engine from the previous IS 200t while the IS 300 AWD retained the same 3.5-litre V6 engine.\nChinese models went on sale in 2013. Early models include the IS 250 and the IS 250 F Sport.\nJapanese models went on sale on 16 May 2013. Early models include the IS 250, IS 250 AWD, IS 350 and the IS 300h.\nEuropean models arrived at dealerships in 2013 June/July. Early models include the IS 250 and the IS 300h.\nFor the UK market, the IS 200t was offered in SE, Sport, F Sport and Premier model grades. The IS 300h was also available in those grades plus additional Executive, Luxury, and Advance grades. The base model SE came with 16-inch alloys wheels, the Executive, Luxury and Advance wear 17-inch, and the Sport and Premier are equipped with 5-spoke 18-inch. The 10-spoke 18-inch alloy wheels were exclusively for the F Sport which also features sport suspension with lateral damping system, an F Sport mesh grille, instrument meters inspired by the Lexus LFA, aluminium sports pedals and leather trim on the steering wheel and gear lever.\nSouth Korean models went on sale on 27 June 2013. Early models include the IS 250 Supreme and the IS 250 Executive.\nAustralian models went on sale in July 2013. Only rear-wheel-drive versions were on offer, the models included the IS 250, IS 300h and the IS 350. The IS 250 was dropped from the line-up in September 2015 and was replaced with the IS 200t.\n2017 facelift.\nThe revamped third generation model includes updated headlamps, taillamps, front fascia and bonnet. It debuted at the April 2016 Beijing Auto Show with interior technology improvements including 10.3 inch infotainment screen, updated steering wheel, and contrast stitching along the dash.\nThe Lexus IS receives subtle updates in 2017, for the 2018 model year. Most notably, its V-6 engines get a 5-hp power increase, and the rear-drive, inline-four-powered IS200t is now called the IS300. Joining the options list is adaptive front lighting, which turns the headlights with the steering wheel to improve visibility. The F Sport performance trim now includes a standard limited-slip rear differential, but only in the top-tier rear-drive IS350.\n2020 facelift.\nThe IS received a major facelift in 2020 for the 2021 model year.\nThe updated styling includes a larger bodywork, restyled headlamps and full-width taillamps, slightly updated dashboard, the center console/cupholders and trackpad and armrest from the Lexus RC and a larger spindle grille design. The parking brake pedal was replaced with an auto electric parking brake, and a new switch to control it. The black headliner in the F-Sport models has been changed to a sportier fabric (changed from the soft black headliner of older models). Brake hold feature has been added. An Active Sound Control has been added, which generates sound from behind the instrument panel (the F-Sport models still have the electronically controlled intake valve which can open up to let more real engine sound into the cabin just like the 2014 - 2020 models). The rear boot water channels have plastic guards to divert leaves and twigs away from the taillight panels. Android Auto and Apple CarPlay capabilities were made available, as well as upgraded driver-assistance systems (auto headlights have been upgraded to be simpler to activate and to ignore false positives) and standard blind-spot monitoring with a new adjustable distance function and 3 levels of brightness. The suspension has also been revised with a more rigid body, more rigid C pillars, extra welding on the radiator mount points and front side members, new swing-valve shock absorbers equipped with ultra low-velocity valves, aluminium wishbone front suspension. The transmission tune was also slightly updated, the IS350 (AWD tested, RWD not yet tested) will downshift to 2nd gear up to 90 kmh / 56 mph (up from 84 kmh / 52 mph from the previous 2014 - 2020 models). In the United States, the F Sport trim is only available on the top IS350 model with its 3.5-litre V-6.\nThe Dynamic Handling Package (DHP), which includes Adaptive Variable Suspension, lighter 19-inch black BBS alloy wheels, Sport S and Sport S+ drive select modes, and carbon fibre rear spoiler, is available for the 2021 IS 350 F Sport. Newer IS models (2022 - present) may no longer have the carbon fiber spoiler or side mirror caps, although special blackout packages will add dark chrome window trim and black side mirror caps.\nThe IS, along with the CT and RC, was discontinued in Europe in 2020 due to poor sales figures, fierce competition from European rivals, and a shift in the market towards crossover SUVs.\nFollowing the introduction of stricter crash safety regulations, the IS, along with the CT hatchback and the RC coupe, were pulled out from the Australian market in November 2021.\nIn August 2022, the F Sport Mode Black III Package was released for the Japanese market IS 350, IS 300h, and IS 300. This package includes matte black BBS forged aluminium wheels, black door mirror covers, black stainless steel window molding, triple-eye full LED headlamps, and black Ultrasuede sport seats.\nContinuing the F Sport Mode Black line up, the F Sport Mode Black IV Package was launched in January 2025. Available for the Japanese market IS 300 and IS 300h, this limited edition is similar to the previous Mode Black III Package.\nIS 500 F Sport Performance.\nIn February 2021, for the 2022 model year, the first V8-powered model since the IS F, called the IS 500 F Sport Performance, was unveiled and went on sale exclusively in North America in the third quarter of 2021. The IS 500 F Sport Performance is offered rear-wheel drive only and features the same 5.0 L (4,969 cc) \"2UR-GSE\" engine offered in the IS F, RC F, GS F, and LC 500, rated at 472 horsepower and 395 lb\u22c5ft of torque in this version. This is the first Lexus model classified as \"F Sport Performance\", signifying a new class of model that offers the power output and engine of higher \"F\" marque models, but without the wider body, interior appointments such as sport bucket seats, nor extensively upgraded and tuned brakes, suspension, and chassis.\nDistinguishing it from other IS F Sport models, the IS 500 F Sport Performance includes a raised bonnet bulge for the larger V8 engine, stacked quad exhaust tips, Yamaha rear performance dampers, F Sport\u2013tuned Adaptive Variable Suspension, two-piece aluminium 14.0-in front and 12.7-in rear brake rotors, dark chrome window trim, F Sport Performance front door-sill scuff plates, IS 500 startup animation in multi-information display, and F Sport Performance 19-in staggered-width split-10-spoke Enkei alloy wheels, with optional 19-in split-seven-spoke forged alloy Matte Black BBS wheels. For 2023, the IS 500 F Sport Performance Premium offers an exclusive Special Appearance Package with Molten Pearl exterior paint, Black NuLuxe interior, 19-inch Matte Black BBS forged alloy wheels, unique colour-matched floor-trimmed mats and matching key gloves.\nIn May 2025, the IS 500 Ultimate Edition was announced for the North American market. Limited to 500-units, this model features red Brembo 6-pistons aluminium calipers paired with high-friction brake pads and large 380 mm pillar-fin ventilated disc brakes. It also comes with matte black 19-inch BBS forged alloy wheels for reduced weight, increased agility, and enhanced style. Inside, the IS 500 Ultimate Edition has Circuit Red and Black combination of NuLuxe and Ultrasuede seats, dimple-texture genuine leather steering wheel and shift knob, red seatbelts, an analogue clock with multi-layered dial finished with precision red laser etching, and Ultimate Edition badges on center console and scuff plates.\n2025 facelift.\nThe third-generation IS received its third facelift on 9 September 2025. Changes include a redesigned front fascia, new rear spoiler, a redesigned interior, 12.3-inch central display, digital instrument cluster, and modernised driver-assist technologies, while the CD player, track pad, and analogue clock have been removed. Mechanically, the electric power steering now features a variable gear ratio to reduce steering angle at intersections and through corners.\nFor the US market, the IS range has been trimmed down to the 350 model, and will only be available in F Sport and F Sport Design trims.\nEquipment.\nToyota Racing Development (TRD) F Sport parts for the Japanese IS sedan include a front spoiler, side skirts, rear spoiler, sport muffler and rear diffuser, diamond-like carbon fibre shock absorbers, 19-inch aluminium wheels (measuring 19x8.5J front and 19x9J rear, 45\u00a0mm front and 50\u00a0mm rear insets, 245/35ZR19 front and 265/30ZR19 rear tyres), member brace and performance dampers.\nProduction.\nProduction at the Tahara plant in Japan began on 25 April 2013.\nAs of June 2013, sales of the Lexus IS had reached 1,919 units.\nBetween 16 May 2013 and 16 June 2013, the order of IS sedans reached approximately 7,600 units, including 2,100 IS 250 and IS 350, 5,500 IS 300h models.\nMotorsport.\nThe first-generation IS 200/300 and RS200 series was used by many racing teams, including Toyota Racing Development, Endless, TOM'S, APEXi, and Amuse to race in various touring car racing series across Asia, including an Altezza one-make racing series in Japan. In Europe, the Lexus IS\u00a0200 was raced in the British Touring Car Championship (through organizations such as BTC Racing), and the IS 300 was raced in the US via the Motorola Cup North American Street Stock Championship touring car series (with the manufacturer-sanctioned Team Lexus).\nIn 2001, Team Lexus entered three IS 300s in the third race of the 2001 Grand-Am Cup season at Phoenix, Arizona, and won their first IS 300 victory that year at the Virginia International Raceway. In 2002, Team Lexus raced the IS 300 in the Grand-Am Cup ST1 (Street Tuner) class, winning both the Drivers' and Team Championships, as well as a sweep of the top three finishes at Circuit Mont-Tremblant in Quebec, Canada.\nIn 2008, the second-generation IS 350 was entered in the Super GT race series in the GT300 class (cars with approximately ). The No. 19 Racing Project Bandoh IS 350 driven by Manabu Orido and Tsubasa Abe achieved its first victory in its fifth race at the Motegi GT300 race. In 2009, The Project Bandoh WedsSport IS 350, driven by Manabu Orido and Tatsuya Kataoka, won both driver and team title in the GT300 class that season.\nIn April 2009, a Lexus IS F entered by Gazoo Racing finished second to the team's Lexus LF-A in the SP8 class in the ADAC-Westfalenfahrt VLN 4h endurance race. An IS F was also entered in the 2009 24 Hours N\u00fcrburgring race and finished third in the SP8 class. In August 2009, an IS F entered by Gazoo Racing and driven by Peter Lyon, Hideshi Matsuda, and Kazunori Yamauchi won the SP8 class at the DMV Grenzlandrennen VLN race. Kazunori Yamauchi is the developer of \"Gran Turismo\" series, of which the IS line is playable in several versions, and the IS F racer carried test equipment for future game modes. The 3 drivers, along with Owen Mildenhall, participated in the 2010 24 Hours N\u00fcrburgring and finished in 4th place in the SP8 class, behind the 1st place ranked Lexus LFA.\nIn 2012, Japanese drift racer Daigo Saito entered an IS 250 C in the Formula Drift Asia series. The car, which was a victim of the 2011 Japan earthquake and tsunami and due to be scrapped, was purchased by Saito and heavily customized for drift racing use. The most notable modification was the swapping of the stock engine to a 2JZ-GTE from a 4th generation Toyota Supra.\nA race car based on the Lexus LF-CC entered the 2014 Super GT GT500 class, replacing the SC 430. Vehicle shakedown began at the Suzuka Circuit. The car was renamed after the RC F prior to the start of the season.\nSales and production.\nSales data for Lexus IS generations are as follows, with chart numbers sourced from manufacturer yearly data."}
{"id": "762027", "revid": "9456477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762027", "title": "Charles Norrie", "text": ""}
{"id": "762028", "revid": "3145267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762028", "title": "Charles W. M. Norrie", "text": ""}
{"id": "762029", "revid": "1227179958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762029", "title": "Ethnic discrimination", "text": ""}
{"id": "762032", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762032", "title": "Farestart", "text": ""}
{"id": "762034", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762034", "title": "Ethnic persecution", "text": ""}
{"id": "762037", "revid": "19049798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762037", "title": "Buster Posey Award", "text": "The Buster Posey Award, formerly known as the Johnny Bench Award, was created in 2000 to honor college baseball's top catcher in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division I. The award is administered by the Wichita Sports Commission and presented after the conclusion of the College World Series.\nOriginally named for Johnny Bench, it was renamed in 2019 after Johnny Bench announced the creation of his own national award for amateur catchers. The commission reviewed the statistics of the prior winners and unanimously chose to rename the award after Buster Posey.\nSchools nominate their catchers during the season to create the official watch list. A select committee of 20 individuals narrows the watch list down to the semifinalists. Two rounds of voting by Division I head coaches determine the three finalists and eventual recipient of the Buster Posey Award. The current holder of the award is Caden Bodine."}
{"id": "762038", "revid": "950157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762038", "title": "Lord Norrie", "text": ""}
{"id": "762039", "revid": "64853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762039", "title": "Willoughby Norrie, 1st Baron Norrie", "text": "Lieutenant-General Charles Willoughby Moke Norrie, 1st Baron Norrie, (26 September 1893 \u2013 25 May 1977) was a senior officer of the British Army who fought in both World Wars, following which he served terms as Governor of South Australia and the eighth Governor-General of New Zealand.\nMilitary career.\nEarly career and First World War.\nEducated at Eton College and at the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, he was commissioned as a second lieutenant into the British Army's 11th Hussars in 1913. He served in the First World War, in which he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order, the Military Cross and Bar, was twice mentioned in despatches, and was wounded four times. He became, successively, a Staff Captain in the 73rd Brigade; General Staff Officer Grade 3 (GSO3) in XVIII Corps; brigade major in the 90th Brigade, and in the 2nd Tank Brigade; and second GSO in the 2nd Battalion, Tank Corps. In January 1919 he changed his name by deed poll from Moke-Norrie to Norrie.\nBetween the wars.\nBetween the world wars Norrie had a number of regimental and staff postings, interrupted by a year at the Staff College, Camberley in 1924. In 1931 he was promoted to lieutenant colonel and became Commanding Officer (CO) of the 10th Hussars, after which he was placed on the half-pay (inactive) list although promoted to full colonel in 1935. In January 1936, still on the half pay list, Norrie took part in the funeral procession for King George V as one of the \"Representative Colonels-Commandant and Colonels of His late Majesty's Regiments\". After attending the Imperial Defence College, in April 1936 he was appointed to command the 1st Cavalry Brigade as a temporary brigadier. His brigade was mechanised in 1938 and re-designated 1st Light Armoured Brigade, becoming the 1st Armoured Brigade in 1940.\nSecond World War.\nOn the outbreak of the Second World War Norrie continued to serve as commander of the 1st Armoured Brigade. In April 1940 the brigade was part of the 2nd Armoured Division, which he was given temporary command of for a month between appointments of permanent commanders. Following this he was appointed acting major general and became Inspector of the Royal Armoured Corps. Four months later he became General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 1st Armoured Division and was promoted to the permanent rank of major general in June 1941.\nIn November 1941 the division was ordered to Egypt where Norrie found himself appointed acting lieutenant general to command XXX Corps in the place of Vyvyan Pope, Norrie's fellow student at the Staff College in the 1920s, who had died in an air crash shortly before Norrie's arrival in Egypt. He commanded XXX Corps during Operation Crusader with some success but his tanks suffered a heavy defeat at the Battle of Gazala in June 1942. He was criticised for his \"cavalry\" approach to armoured warfare and General Sir Claude Auchinleck, the Eighth Army commander, replaced him in July.\nHe returned to Britain to be appointed Commander of the Royal Armoured Corps in which role he was to give advice on armoured warfare to General Bernard Paget, the Commander-in-Chief, Home Forces. He continued as Paget's advisor when Paget became commander of the Anglo-Canadian 21st Army Group on its formation in July 1943 but when General Bernard Montgomery assumed command early in 1944, he brought his own advisor. In April 1944 Norrie was appointed Head of the Military Mission to the French Committee of National Liberation (CFLN) in Algiers, a post he held until the middle of 1944 when he was proposed by the Secretary of State for the Dominions to become Governor of South Australia.\nNorrie retired from the British Army in September 1944 to take up his post as Governor of South Australia. Although his substantive rank at this time was still major general, he was given the honorary rank of lieutenant general in retirement.\nFamily.\nNorrie was married to Jocelyn Helen Gosling on 9 June 1922. They had three children:\nDiana Norrie (7 May 1923 \u2013 6 December 1932);\nHon. Rosemary Norrie (born 28 March 1926), who married the 3rd Viscount Daventry; and\nGeorge Willoughby Moke Norrie (born 27 April 1936).\nJocelyn Norrie died on 7 March 1938. Norrie then married, on 28 November that year, Patricia Merryweather Bainbridge, daughter of Emerson Bainbridge. They also had three children:\nGuy Bainbridge Norrie (born 3 May 1940),\nSarah Norrie (born 27 June 1943), and\nAnnabel Mary Adelaide Norrie (born 23 December 1945).\nNorrie also had a ward, his niece Eleanor Kerans (born 21 April 1926). She had been orphaned at an early age; when she was 16 her brother was killed in the Western Desert campaign of the Second World War, leaving her with no immediate family.\nGovernor of South Australia.\nNorrie was appointed Governor of South Australia in September 1944, whereupon he was knighted as a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG). He, his family and 12 staff arrived in Adelaide in December. The Vice-Regal couple worked hard to keep the 'Empire Spirit' alive during wartime. Within two years, Norrie had travelled to every local government area within the state, and was sure to welcome servicemen returning from war. Lady Patricia, with Rosemary and Eleanor, were regular volunteers and champions of various patriotic causes. In 1945, Norrie was made a Knight of St John, an award associated with public and charitable works.\nAlthough normally remaining neutral in regards to local politics, he was 'shocked' at the narrow rejection of Thomas Playford's bill to nationalise the Adelaide Electric Company. He privately exerted pressure on the bill's main opponents. When the bill was reintroduced in 1946, Collier Cudmore (later Sir Collier) absented himself from key divisions, allowing the bill to pass and leading to the establishment of the Electricity Trust of South Australia.\nNorrie's term was extended for four years in 1948. Despite his illustrious career, he would forever claim that his greatest achievement was the catching of a shark weighing , with rod and reel, off Port Lincoln. For part of his term as governor, his official aide-de-camp was the young Viscount Althorp (later The 8th Earl Spencer), the father of Diana, Princess of Wales.\nGovernor-General of New Zealand.\nNorrie's KCMG was promoted to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George (GCMG) when he was appointed Governor-General of New Zealand in 1952, in which position he served until 1957. During his tenure he was awarded the Queen Elizabeth II Coronation Medal in 1953, and appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO) for personal services to The Queen. On leaving office, he was created a peer in 1957 as Baron Norrie, of Wellington in the Dominion of New Zealand and of Upton in the County of Gloucester. From 1960 to 1968 he was Chancellor of the Order of Saint Michael and Saint George.\nStyles.\n\"Note: An asterisk (*) denotes a bar to a military award\""}
{"id": "762040", "revid": "41346365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762040", "title": "Conditional loop", "text": ""}
{"id": "762043", "revid": "1253877179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762043", "title": "Marginal product", "text": "In economics and in particular neoclassical economics, the marginal product or marginal physical productivity of an input (factor of production) is the change in output resulting from employing one more unit of a particular input (for instance, the change in output when a firm's labor is increased from five to six units), assuming that the quantities of other inputs are kept constant.\nThe marginal product of a given input can be expressed \nas:\nwhere formula_2 is the change in the firm's use of the input (conventionally a one-unit change) and formula_3 is the change in the quantity of output produced (resulting from the change in the input). Note that the quantity formula_4 of the \"product\" is typically defined ignoring external costs and benefits.\nIf the output and the input are infinitely divisible, so the marginal \"units\" are infinitesimal, the marginal product is the mathematical derivative of the production function with respect to that input. Suppose a firm's output \"Y\" is given by the production function:\nwhere \"K\" and \"L\" are inputs to production (say, capital and labor, respectively). Then the marginal product of capital (\"MPK\") and marginal product of labor (\"MPL\") are given by:\nIn the law of diminishing marginal returns, the marginal product initially increases when more of an input (say labor) is employed, keeping the other input (say capital) constant. Here, labor is the variable input and capital is the fixed input (in a hypothetical two-inputs model). As more and more of variable input (labor) is employed, marginal product starts to fall. Finally, after a certain point, the marginal product becomes negative, implying that the additional unit of labor has \"decreased\" the output, rather than increasing it. The reason behind this is the diminishing marginal productivity of labor.\nThe marginal product of labor is the slope of the total product curve, which is the production function plotted against labor usage for a fixed level of usage of the capital input.\nIn the neoclassical theory of competitive markets, the marginal product of labor equals the real wage. In aggregate models of perfect competition, in which a single good is produced and that good is used both in consumption and as a capital good, the marginal product of capital equals its rate of return. As was shown in the Cambridge capital controversy, this proposition about the marginal product of capital cannot generally be sustained in multi-commodity models in which capital and consumption goods are distinguished.\nRelationship of marginal product (MPP) with the total product (TPP).\nThe relationship can be explained in three phases-\n(1) Initially, as the quantity of variable input is increased, TPP rises at an increasing rate. In this phase, MPP also rises.\n(2) As more and more quantities of the variable inputs are employed, TPP increases at a diminishing rate. In this phase, MPP starts to fall.\n(3) When the TPP reaches its maximum, MPP is zero. Beyond this point, TPP starts to fall and MPP becomes negative."}
{"id": "762045", "revid": "17517001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762045", "title": "Thomas Ashe", "text": "Thomas Patrick Ashe (; 12 January 1885 \u2013 25 September 1917) was an Irish revolutionary and politician. He was a member of the Gaelic League, the Gaelic Athletic Association, the Irish Republican Brotherhood (IRB) and a founding member of the Irish Volunteers.\nHe was a senior commander in the Easter Rising of 1916. After release from prison just over a year later he was soon re-arrested on separate charges of sedition, and died as a result of forcible feeding whilst on hunger strike in prison.\nBackground.\nThomas Ashe was born in the townland of Kinard East, Lispole, Dingle, County Kerry, Ireland, to Gregory Ashe (d. 1927), a farmer, and his wife Ellen Hanifin, on 12 January 1885, according to his baptismal record and his sister Nora, or 15 March 1885, according to state birth records. His was a family of ten, seven boys and three girls. Thomas was the seventh child, with three brothers following him. His mother died aged 58, some years before Thomas died. Both Irish and English were spoken in their house, with Thomas's father being a great Irish Scholar and learners of Irish used to come to listen to his stories.\nHaving entered De La Salle Training College, Waterford, in 1905 he began his teaching career as principal of Corduff National School, Lusk, County Dublin, in 1908. He taught Irish in Corduff school. He was fond of the Irish language and started branches of the Gaelic League in Skerries and other neighbouring villages. According to his sister Nora he would get the children to march over a Union Jack. Ashe was a member of the Irish National Teachers Organisation.\nHe spent his last years before his death teaching children in Lusk, where he founded the award-winning Lusk Black Raven Pipe Band, as well as Round Towers Lusk Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) Club, in 1906.\nPrior to the rising.\nAshe joined the Irish Volunteers upon its foundation in November 1913. He was a member of the Keating Branch of the Gaelic League and the Lusk company of the volunteers and probably founded it. He sat on the governing body of the Gaelic League, and collected considerable sums of money during a trip to the US in 1914 for both the Volunteers and the League.\nAshe supported the striking workers during the 1913 Dublin Lockout, saying \"We are all here on Larkin's side. He\u2019ll beat the hell out of the snobbish, mean, seoin\u00edn employers yet, and more power to him\"\nEaster Rising.\nCommanding the Fingal battalion (5th battalion) of the Irish Volunteers, Ashe took a major part in the 1916 Easter Rising outside the capital city. Ashe was commandant of 5th battalion of the Dublin brigade; a force of 60\u201370 men engaged British forces around north County Dublin during the rising. Ashe was sent a messenger Mollie Adrian by Pearse with orders to hold the main road from Fairyhouse. She was sent back to report to Connolly, who returned an order to send 40 men to the GPO. Ashe was only able to send 20 due to his shortage of men.\nHe was to contact the 1st battalion at Cross Guns Bridge, although he found no one there because vice-commandant Piaras Beaslai knew nothing of this plan. The area was dominated by the central feature of Broadstone station, at the end of the line to Athlone, an important British army barracks. But for some reason they decided not to occupy and garrison the station; similarly the Citizens Army had been confusingly required to withdraw from Mallin. The lack of cooperative communication was later discussed in Piaras Beaslai's books, the research for which included taking accounts from Thomas Ashe whilst they were incarcerated. The failure of inexperienced volunteers to properly co-ordinate their deployments was a critical factor in defeat. Ashe himself had only been appointed commandant shortly before Easter. They were armed only with a few rounds, about a dozen service rifles, a dozen Mausers, and a dozen Martini carbines; some had only a shotgun against well-equipped army regulars.\nOn 28 April 1916 the battalion won a major victory at the Battle of Ashbourne, County Meath where they engaged a much larger force capturing a significant quantity of arms and up to 20 Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC) vehicles. Eleven RIC members, including County Inspector Alexander Gray, and two volunteers were killed during the five-and-a-half-hour battle. Twenty-four hours after the rising collapsed, Ashe's battalion surrendered on the orders of Patrick Pearse.\nWhen he received the order to surrender he had his doubts as he had difficulty believing the rebels in Dublin had not had success as he did. He sent Richard Mulcahy to Dublin to verify its authenticity.\nOn 8 May 1916, Ashe and \u00c9amon de Valera were court-martialled and both were sentenced to death. The sentences were commuted to penal servitude for life. Ashe was imprisoned in the Frongoch internment camp and Lewes Prison in England. While in prison he wrote the poem \"Let Me Carry Your Cross for Ireland, Lord\".\nWith the entry of the US into World War I in April 1917, the British government was put under more pressure to solve the \"Irish problem\". De Valera, Ashe and Thomas Hunter led a prisoner hunger strike on 28 May 1917 to add to this pressure. With accounts of prison mistreatment appearing in the Irish press and mounting protests in Ireland, Ashe and the remaining prisoners were freed on 18 June 1917 by Lloyd George as part of a general amnesty.\nDeath and legacy.\nAshe was released from jail in June 1917 under the general amnesty which was given to republican prisoners. Upon release, Ashe returned to Ireland and began a series of speaking engagements. In August 1917, Ashe was arrested and charged with sedition for a speech that he made in Ballinalee, County Longford, where Michael Collins had also been speaking. He went on the run but was captured in Dublin and detained at the Curragh but was then transferred to Mountjoy Prison in Dublin.\nHe was convicted on the sedition charge and sentenced to two years hard labour. Ashe and other prisoners, including other Kerrymen Fion\u00e1n Lynch and Austin Stack, demanded prisoner of war status. The Lord Mayor of Dublin Laurence O'Neill visited Ashe in prison and said Ashe asked for no privileges but refused to be treated as a criminal. As this protest evolved, Ashe again went on hunger strike on 20 September 1917. As this was a breach of prison discipline, the authorities retaliated by taking away the prisoners' beds, bedding and boots. After five or six days lying on a cold stone floor, the prisoners were subjected to forcible feeding.\nOn 25 September, Fion\u00e1n Lynch saw Ashe being carried away to receive this treatment and called out to him, \"Stick it Tom\". Ashe called back, \"I'll stick it, Fin\". That was the last time they spoke to each other. Ashe was carried back, blue in the face and unconscious. He was removed to the Mater Misericordiae Hospital (which faces the prison), where he died within a few hours.\nAt the inquest into his death, the jury condemned the staff at the prison for the \"inhuman and dangerous operation performed on the prisoner, and other acts of unfeeling and barbaric conduct\". They concluded that Ashe had died of heart failure and congestion of the lungs, and that this was due to force-feeding combined with the previous removal of his bed and boots (which had left him in a physically weakened state).\nThe death of Ashe and the subsequent funeral procession had a striking effect on the attitude of the Irish people and became a rallying call to the standard of the Irish Republic. Ashe was given a military funeral and a volley of shots was fired over his coffin, following which Michael Collins declared \"Nothing additional remains to be said, that volley which we have just heard is the only speech which it is proper to make above the grave of a dead Fenian\". Though not on the scale of Jeremiah O'Donovan Rossa's funeral two years previous, the military aspect of the funeral proved that the Irish Volunteers were well on their way to being restored to pre-1916 levels.\nAshe's remains were removed to the Pro-Cathedral on Thursday evening and placed on a catafalque in the main entrance. Requiem Mass was celebrated by Fr. Michael O'Flanagan on Friday morning before removal to City Hall, where his body lay in state for two days. \"Tom Ashe's body lay in state in the City Hall, dressed in his Volunteer Republican uniform, and 30,000 mourners filed by.\"\nHe was related to American actor Gregory Peck.\nIn 2017 a statue of Ashe was unveiled outside Round Towers GAA in Lusk. In the same town there is a 'Thomas Ashe Park'.\nThe Ashe Memorial Hall in Tralee, County Kerry was named after him. The words \"Halla Tom\u00e1is \u00c1ghas\" are embossed on the front of the building. Nearby Ashe Street (formerly Nelson Street) is also named for him."}
{"id": "762047", "revid": "50782069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762047", "title": "Freshwater ecosystem", "text": "Freshwater ecosystems are a subset of Earth's aquatic ecosystems that include the biological communities inhabiting freshwater waterbodies such as lakes, ponds, rivers, streams, springs, bogs, and wetlands. They can be contrasted with marine ecosystems, which have a much higher salinity. Freshwater habitats can be classified by different factors, including temperature, light penetration, nutrients, and vegetation.\nThere are three basic types of freshwater ecosystems: lentic (slow moving water, including pools, ponds, and lakes), lotic (faster moving streams, for example creeks and rivers) and wetlands (semi-aquatic areas where the soil is saturated or inundated for at least part of the time). Freshwater ecosystems contain 41% of the world's known fish species.\nFreshwater ecosystems have undergone substantial transformations over time, which has impacted various characteristics of the ecosystems. Original attempts to understand and monitor freshwater ecosystems were spurred on by threats to human health (for example cholera outbreaks due to sewage contamination). Early monitoring focused on chemical indicators, then bacteria, and finally algae, fungi and protozoa. A new type of monitoring involves quantifying differing groups of organisms (macroinvertebrates, macrophytes and fish) and measuring the stream conditions associated with them. \nThreats to freshwater biodiversity include overexploitation, water pollution, flow modification, destruction or degradation of habitat, and invasion by exotic species. Climate change is putting further pressure on these ecosystems because water temperatures have already increased by about 1\u00a0\u00b0C, and there have been significant declines in ice coverage which have caused subsequent ecosystem stresses.\nTypes.\nThere are three basic types of freshwater ecosystems: Lentic (slow moving water, including pools, ponds, and lakes), lotic (faster moving water, for example streams and rivers) and wetlands (areas where the soil is saturated or inundated for at least part of the time). Limnology (and its branch freshwater biology) is the study of freshwater ecosystems.\nThreats.\nBiodiversity.\nFive broad threats to freshwater biodiversity include overexploitation, water pollution, flow modification, destruction or degradation of habitat, and invasion by exotic species. Recent extinction trends can be attributed largely to sedimentation, stream fragmentation, chemical and organic pollutants, dams, and invasive species. Common chemical stresses on freshwater ecosystem health include acidification, eutrophication and copper and pesticide contamination.\nFreshwater biodiversity faces many threats. The World Wide Fund for Nature's Living Planet Index noted an 83% decline in the populations of freshwater vertebrates between 1970 and 2014. These declines continue to outpace contemporaneous declines in marine or terrestrial systems. The causes of these declines are related to: \nInvasive species.\nInvasive plants and animals are a major issue to freshwater ecosystems, in many cases outcompeting native species and altering water conditions. Introduced species are especially devastating to ecosystems that are home to endangered species. An example of this being the Asian carp competing with the paddlefish in the Mississippi river. Common causes of invasive species in freshwater ecosystems include aquarium releases, introduction for sport fishing, and introduction for use as a food fish.\nExtinction of freshwater fauna.\nOver 123 freshwater fauna species have gone extinct in North America since 1900. Of North American freshwater species, an estimated 48.5% of mussels, 22.8% of gastropods, 32.7% of crayfishes, 25.9% of amphibians, and 21.2% of fish are either endangered or threatened. Extinction rates of many species may increase severely into the next century because of invasive species, loss of keystone species, and species which are already functionally extinct (e.g., species which are not reproducing). Even using conservative estimates, freshwater fish extinction rates in North America are 877 times higher than background extinction rates (1 in 3,000,000 years). Projected extinction rates for freshwater animals are around five times greater than for land animals, and are comparable to the rates for rainforest communities. Given the dire state of freshwater biodiversity, a team of scientists and practitioners from around the globe recently drafted an Emergency Action plan to try and restore freshwater biodiversity.\nCurrent freshwater biomonitoring techniques focus primarily on community structure, but some programs measure functional indicators like biochemical (or biological) oxygen demand, sediment oxygen demand, and dissolved oxygen. Macroinvertebrate community structure is commonly monitored because of the diverse taxonomy, ease of collection, sensitivity to a range of stressors, and overall value to the ecosystem. Additionally, algal community structure (often using diatoms) is measured in biomonitoring programs. Algae are also taxonomically diverse, easily collected, sensitive to a range of stressors, and overall valuable to the ecosystem. Algae grow very quickly and communities may represent fast changes in environmental conditions.\nIn addition to community structure, responses to freshwater stressors are investigated by experimental studies that measure organism behavioural changes, altered rates of growth, reproduction or mortality. Experimental results on single species under controlled conditions may not always reflect natural conditions and multi-species communities.\nThe use of reference sites is common when defining the idealized \"health\" of a freshwater ecosystem. Reference sites can be selected spatially by choosing sites with minimal impacts from human disturbance and influence. However, reference conditions may also be established temporally by using preserved indicators such as diatom valves, macrophyte pollen, insect chitin and fish scales can be used to determine conditions prior to large scale human disturbance. These temporal reference conditions are often easier to reconstruct in standing water than moving water because stable sediments can better preserve biological indicator materials.\nClimate change.\nThe effects of climate change greatly complicate and frequently exacerbate the impacts of other stressors that threaten many fish, invertebrates, phytoplankton, and other organisms. Climate change is increasing the average temperature of water bodies, and worsening other issues such as changes in substrate composition, oxygen concentration, and other system changes that have ripple effects on the biology of the system. Water temperatures have already increased by around 1\u00a0\u00b0C, and significant declines in ice coverage have caused subsequent ecosystem stresses."}
{"id": "762048", "revid": "8766034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762048", "title": "Diminishing returns", "text": "In economics, diminishing returns means the decrease in marginal (incremental) output of a production process as the amount of a single factor of production is incrementally increased, holding all other factors of production equal (\"ceteris paribus\"). The law of diminishing returns (also known as the law of diminishing marginal productivity) states that in a productive process, if a factor of production continues to increase, while holding all other production factors constant, at some point a further incremental unit of input will return a lower amount of output. The law of diminishing returns does not imply a decrease in overall production capabilities; rather, it defines a point on a production curve at which producing an additional unit of output will result in a lower profit. Under diminishing returns, output remains positive, but productivity and efficiency decrease.\nThe modern understanding of the law adds the dimension of holding other outputs equal, since a given process is understood to be able to produce co-products. An example would be a factory increasing its saleable product, but also increasing its CO2 production, for the same input increase. The law of diminishing returns is a fundamental principle of both micro and macro economics and it plays a central role in production theory.\nThe concept of diminishing returns can be explained by considering other theories such as the concept of exponential growth. It is commonly understood that growth will not continue to rise exponentially, rather it is subject to different forms of constraints such as limited availability of resources and capitalization which can cause economic stagnation. This example of production holds true to this common understanding as production is subject to the four factors of production which are land, labor, capital and enterprise. These factors have the ability to influence economic growth and can eventually limit or inhibit continuous exponential growth. Therefore, as a result of these constraints the production process will eventually reach a point of maximum yield on the production curve and this is where marginal output will stagnate and move towards zero. Innovation in the form of technological advances or managerial progress can minimize or eliminate diminishing returns to restore productivity and efficiency and to generate profit.\nThis idea can be understood outside of economics theory, for example, population. The population size on Earth is growing rapidly, but this will not continue forever (exponentially). Constraints such as resources will see the population growth stagnate at some point and begin to decline. Similarly, it will begin to decline towards zero but not actually become a negative value, the same idea as in the diminishing rate of return inevitable to the production process.\nHistory.\nThe concept of diminishing returns can be traced back to the concerns of early economists such as Johann Heinrich von Th\u00fcnen, Jacques Turgot, Adam Smith, James Steuart, Thomas Robert Malthus, and David Ricardo. The law of diminishing returns can be traced back to the 18th century, in the work of Jacques Turgot. He argued that \"each increase [in an input] would be less and less productive.\" In 1815, David Ricardo, Thomas Malthus, Edward West, and Robert Torrens applied the concept of diminishing returns to land rent. These works were relevant to the committees of Parliament in England, who were investigating why grain prices were so high, and how to reduce them. The four economists concluded that the prices of the products had risen due to the Napoleonic Wars, which affected international trade and caused farmers to move to lands which were undeveloped and further away. In addition, at the end of the Napoleonic Wars, grain imports were restored which caused a decline in prices because the farmers needed to attract customers and sell their products faster. \nClassical economists such as Malthus and Ricardo attributed the successive diminishment of output to the decreasing quality of the inputs whereas Neoclassical economists assume that each \"unit\" of labor is identical. Diminishing returns are due to the disruption of the entire production process as additional units of labor are added to a fixed amount of capital. The law of diminishing returns remains an important consideration in areas of production such as farming and agriculture.\nProposed on the cusp of the First Industrial Revolution, it was motivated with single outputs in mind. In recent years, economists since the 1970s have sought to redefine the theory to make it more appropriate and relevant in modern economic societies. Specifically, it looks at what assumptions can be made regarding number of inputs, quality, substitution and complementary products, and output co-production, quantity and quality.\nThe origin of the law of diminishing returns was developed primarily within the agricultural industry. In the early 19th century, David Ricardo as well as other English economists previously mentioned, adopted this law as the result of the lived experience in England after the war. It was developed by observing the relationship between prices of wheat and corn and the quality of the land which yielded the harvests. The observation was that at a certain point, that the quality of the land kept increasing, but so did the cost of produce etc. Therefore, each additional unit of labour on agricultural fields, actually provided a diminishing or marginally decreasing return.\nExamples.\nA common example of diminishing returns is choosing to hire more people on a factory floor to alter current manufacturing and production capabilities. Given that the capital on the floor (e.g. manufacturing machines, pre-existing technology, warehouses) is held constant, increasing from one employee to two employees is, theoretically, going to more than double production possibilities and this is called increasing returns.\nIf 50 people are employed, at some point, increasing the number of employees by two percent (from 50 to 51 employees) would increase output by two percent and this is called constant returns.\nFurther along the production curve at, for example 100 employees, floor space is likely getting crowded, there are too many people operating the machines and in the building, and workers are getting in each other's way. Increasing the number of employees by two percent (from 100 to 102 employees) would increase output by less than two percent and this is called \"diminishing returns\".\nAt some (maybe much later) point (perhaps with 200 employees), each additional employee will actually decrease production. This is called \"negative returns\".\nThrough each of these examples, the floor space and capital of the factor remained constant, i.e., these inputs were held constant. By only increasing the number of people, eventually the productivity and efficiency of the process moved from increasing returns to diminishing returns.\nTo understand this concept thoroughly, acknowledge the importance of marginal output or marginal returns. Returns eventually diminish because economists measure productivity with regard to additional units (marginal). Additional inputs significantly impact efficiency or returns more in the initial stages. The point in the process before returns begin to diminish is considered the optimal level. Being able to recognize this point is beneficial, as other variables in the production function can be altered rather than continually increasing labor.\nFurther, examine something such as the Human Development Index, which would presumably continue to rise so long as GDP per capita (in purchasing power parity terms) was increasing. This would be a rational assumption because GDP per capita is a function of HDI. Even GDP per capita will reach a point where it has a diminishing rate of return on HDI. Just think, in a low income family, an average increase of income will likely make a huge impact on the wellbeing of the family. Parents could provide abundantly more food and healthcare essentials for their family. That is a significantly increasing rate of return. But, if you gave the same increase to a wealthy family, the impact it would have on their life would be minor. Therefore, the rate of return provided by that average increase in income is diminishing.\nMathematics.\nSignify formula_1\nIncreasing Returns: formula_2\nConstant Returns: formula_3\nDiminishing Returns: formula_4\nProduction function.\nThere is a widely recognised production function in economics: \"Q= f(NR, L, K, t, E)\":\nLink with output elasticity.\nStart from the equation for the marginal product: &lt;math&gt;{\\Delta Out \\over \\Delta In_1}= "}
{"id": "762053", "revid": "40529576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762053", "title": "Vulcan nerve pinch", "text": "In the fictional \"Star Trek\" universe, the Vulcan nerve pinch is a fictional technique used mainly by Vulcans to render unconsciousness by pinching a pressure point at the base of the victim's neck.\nOrigin.\nThe script for \"\" (1966) stated that Spock \"kayoes\" (Knocks Out) Captain Kirk (William Shatner)'s duplicate, but Leonard Nimoy, who opposed the Vietnam War and supported Eugene McCarthy, felt that such a brutal action would be unnecessarily violent for a Vulcan. He therefore invented an alternative by suggesting that Vulcans may know enough about human anatomy, or they may have the ability to project telepathic energy from their fingertips, that they could render a human unconscious. The first use of the move would release one week after these events in episode four, \"\" (1966).\nAllegedly, Leo Penn, the director of the episode, did not understand the idea when Nimoy explained it to him, but William Shatner understood immediately and reacted in exactly the way Nimoy had hoped when they executed the move during filming, explaining that it would be similar to \"feeling an electrical charge.\" From then on, the pinch was referred to as the \"FSNP\", for \"Famous Spock Nerve Pinch\", in \"Star Trek\"s scripts..\nPhysiology.\nAlthough entirely fictional, fans and critics of the show have tried to explain how the pinch may work. It has been compared to the \"karate chop\", a trope used in other 1960s fictional television series to render opponents unconscious.\nNimoy's theory that the pinch may be linked to telepathy is in contrast to when four non-telepathic entities, the android Data, \"Voyager\"'s holographic Doctor, 's La'an Noonien Singh and 's Captain Jean-Luc Picard use the pinch in later \"Star Trek\" television shows.\nThe book \"The Making of Star Trek\" by Stephen E. Whitfield and Gene Roddenberry offers a simple explanation: the pinch blocks blood and nerve responses from reaching the brain, leading to unconsciousness. How this might lead to instantaneous unconsciousness is not explained. In this earliest of \"Star Trek\" reference books, the pinch is referred to as the \"Spock Pinch.\"\nAt least one being, Gary Seven, resists the Vulcan neck pinch during a fight in the episode \"\". Dr. McCoy describes the alien-raised Seven as human, albeit with a perfect body.\nIn the \"Star Trek: Voyager\" episode \"\", the Doctor inspects a crewmember who was found unconscious and observes an extreme trauma to the trapezius neck bundle, \"as though her nerve fibers have been ruptured\"; and it is later revealed that the person was the victim of a nerve pinch.\nUse within the franchise.\nAlong with Spock, various other characters in the \"Star Trek\" franchise have used the technique. Notably, the above-mentioned instances with Data and the holographic Doctor, \"s Changeling, Odo, \"TNG\"s Jean-Luc Picard, \"s Seven of Nine. \"s T'Pol, \"'s Michael Burnham.\nHowever, it is not an easy technique to master. After Spock uses the pinch in the episode \"The Omega Glory\", Kirk says to Spock, \"Pity you can't teach me that\", and Spock replies, \"I have tried, Captain.\" In the film \"\" (1984), Dr. McCoy was unable to use the nerve pinch despite being in possession of Spock's \"katra\" (his \"spirit\" or \"soul\").\nIn the film \"\" (1986), Spock uses the nerve pinch on a disruptive bus passenger. When Kirk and Spock are traveling on a public bus, they encounter a punk rocker blaring his music on a boom box, to the discomfort of everyone around him. Spock takes matters into his own hands and performs a Vulcan nerve pinch. Part of the inspiration for the scene came from Nimoy's personal experiences with a similar character on the streets of New York: \"[I was struck] by the arrogance of it, the aggressiveness of it, and I thought if I was Spock I'd pinch his brains out!\" On learning about the scene, Kirk Thatcher, an associate producer on the film, convinced Nimoy to let him play the role; Thatcher shaved his hair into a mohawk and bought clothes to complete the part. Credited as \"punk on bus\", Thatcher (along with sound designer Mark Mangini) also wrote and recorded \"I Hate You\", the song in the scene, and it was his idea to have the punk\u2014rendered unconscious by the pinch\u2014hit the stereo and turn it off with his face.\nThe nerve pinch has been shown being used on animals. In the episode \"\", Spock uses the nerve pinch on a \"Le-matya\" (a mountain lion-like creature) to save the life of his younger self. In the 1989 film \"\", Spock uses the pinch to subdue a horse during a battle.\nIn popular culture.\nThe Vulcan nerve pinch has been referred to, and parodied, in a wide variety of television, film, and other media."}
{"id": "762062", "revid": "46469420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762062", "title": "Byron, London, Ontario", "text": "Byron is a neighbourhood in the City of London, Ontario, Canada. It is adjacent to the Thames River in the south-west of London. Almost all of its residents live in low-density, single detached dwellings. As of 2011, the area is home to 15,525 residents.\nThe neighbourhood is considered a high-income area, with an average family income of $130,587 an average dwelling value of $312,896 and a home ownership rate of 93%.\nHistory.\nByron was originally called Westminster, then renamed Hall's Mill, and then finally Byron; named for the poet Lord Byron. The Byron area was settled in 1800 and first became a village in 1804. Up until 1857 the community was known as Hall's Mills, for Charles Hall, post master. On March 7, 1961, it was annexed by the city of London and the population grew substantially with the development of large subdivisions around the original village.\nGovernment and politics.\nByron exists within the federal electoral district of London West. It is currently represented by Arielle Kayabaga of the Liberal Party of Canada, first elected in 2021.\nProvincially, the area is within the constituency of London West. It is currently represented by Peggy Sattler of the New Democratic Party, first elected in 2013 and re-elected in 2014, 2018, and 2022.\nIn London's non-partisan municipal politics, Byron lies within ward 9. It is currently represented by Councillor Anna Hopkins, first elected in 2014.\nEducation.\nElementary schools.\nThere are six publicly funded elementary schools in Byron:\nThe first three schools are under the jurisdiction of the Thames Valley District School Board and the latter three are part of the London District Catholic School Board.\nSecondary schools.\nThere are no secondary schools located in Byron (a source of some consternation to residents, as a secondary school was originally promised by the city of London when Byron was annexed). Two publicly funded secondary schools serve the needs of Byron students. The nearest is St. Thomas Aquinas Catholic Secondary School in the London District Catholic School Board, to the north across the Thames River. This school primarily serves the needs of Roman Catholic students, though, as it is publicly funded, students of any religious denomination may attend. Most secondary school age students in Byron choose to attend Saunders Secondary School in the Thames Valley District School Board in the Westmount suburb of London. Though they do not live within the drawing area, a number of secondary school age children from Byron currently attend Oakridge Secondary School, located in the neighbourhood of Oakridge in London.\nPrivate schools.\nThere is one private (for profit) school in Byron. This is a Montessori pre-school, located on Commissioners Road between Grand View Ave and Chestnut Hill.\nAttractions.\nByron is home to Springbank Park, a picturesque urban park and the largest in London. Within Springbank Park is Storybook Gardens, a popular children's attraction open year-round. Byron also has Boler Mountain, a small co-operative that offers skiing, snowboarding, snow-tubing, and mountain bike terrains.\nByron hosted two cycling events during the 2001 Canada Summer Games: the mountain biking event on Boler Mountain, and the road cycling event, where cyclists raced through the heart of the village.\nInfrastructure.\nByron Telephone Company.\nByron was served until August 1960 by the Byron Telephone Company, when it was sold to Bell Canada. A manual telephone exchange continued to operate until September 15, 1963, and in 1962 or 1963, the short code 471 was introduced to London exchange customers for the convenience of immediately reaching the Byron operator to complete a call. Upon dial introduction, 471 became the exchange prefix.\nHowever, some two or three years before 1960, the Byron Telephone Company converted its Lambeth-area customers to a dial exchange, the OLiver 2 exchange.\nLocation.\nThe current boundaries of Byron are generally regarded to be the land south of the Thames River and west of Colonel Talbot Road. Recent housing developments have expanded Byron southward to Southdale Road and westward to Wickerson Road. Outside of the urban area, Byron is surrounded by farmland and forested areas. On the eastern border of Byron is the Byron Gravel Pit, the sixteenth-largest gravel pit in Canada. Historically, Byron also consisted of some land north of the Thames River in the area known today as Oakridge Park, including the Byron Bog (now Sifton Bog)."}
{"id": "762064", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762064", "title": "Systems neuroscience", "text": "Systems neuroscience is a subdiscipline of neuroscience and systems biology that studies the structure and function of various neural circuits and systems that make up the central nervous system of an organism. Systems neuroscience encompasses a number of areas of study concerned with how nerve cells behave when connected together to form neural pathways, neural circuits, and larger brain networks. At this level of analysis, neuroscientists study how different neural circuits work together to analyze sensory information, form perceptions of the external world, form emotions, make decisions, and execute movements. Researchers in systems neuroscience are concerned with the relation between molecular and cellular approaches to understanding brain structure and function, as well as with the study of high-level mental functions such as language, memory, and self-awareness (which are the purview of behavioral and cognitive neuroscience). To deepen their understanding of these relations and understanding, systems neuroscientists typically employ techniques for understanding networks of neurons as they are seen to function, by way of electrophysiology using either single-unit recording or multi-electrode recording, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and PET scans. The term is commonly used in an educational framework: a common sequence of graduate school neuroscience courses consists of cellular/molecular neuroscience for the first semester, then systems neuroscience for the second semester. It is also sometimes used to distinguish a subdivision within a neuroscience department in a university.\nMajor branches.\nSystems neuroscience has three major branches in relation to measuring the brain: behavioral neuroscience, computational modeling, and brain activity. Through these three branches, it breaks down the core concepts of systems neuroscience and provides valuable information about how the functional systems of an organism interact independently and intertwined with one another.\nBehavioral neuroscience.\nBehavioral neuroscience in relation to systems neuroscience focuses on representational dissimilarity matrices (RDMs), which categorizes brain activity patterns and compares them across different conditions, such as the dissimilar level of brain activity observing an animal in comparison to an inanimate object. These models give a quantitative representation of behavior while providing comparable models of the patterns observed.5 Correlations or anticorrelations between brain-activity patterns are used during experimental conditions to distinguish the processing of each brain region when stimuli is presented.\nComputational modeling.\nComputational models provide a base form of brain-activity level, which is typically represented by the firing of a single neuron. This is essential for understanding systems neuroscience as it shows the physical changes that occur during functional changes in an organism. While these models are important for understanding brain-activity, one-to-one correspondence of neuron firing has not been completely uncovered yet. Different measurements of the same activity lead to different patterns, when in theory, the patterns should be the same, or at least similar to one another. However, studies show fundamental differences when it comes to measuring the brain, and science strives to investigate this dissimilarity. \nBrain activity.\nBrain activity and brain imaging help scientists understand the differences between functional systems of an organism in combination with computational models and the understanding of behavioral neuroscience. The three major branches of systems neuroscience work together to provide the most accurate information about brain activity as neuroimaging allows in its current state. While there can always be improvements to brain-activity measurements, typical imaging studies through electrophysiology can already provide massive amounts of information about the systems of an organism and how they may work intertwined with one another. For example, using the core branches of systems neuroscience, scientists have been able to dissect a migraine\u2019s attack on the nervous system by observing brain-activity dissimilarities and using computational modeling to compare the differences of a functioning brain and a brain affected by a migraine.6\nObservations.\nSystems neuroscience is observed through electrophysiology, which focuses on the electrical activity of biological systems in an organism. Through electrophysiology studies, the activity levels of different systems in the body help explain abnormalities of systematic functioning, such as an abnormal heartbeat rhythm or a stroke. While the main focus of electrophysiology is the heart, it does provide informational scanning of brain activity in relation to other bodily functions, which can be useful for the connection of neurological activity between systems.\nAlthough systems neuroscience is generally observed in relation to a human\u2019s level of functioning, many studies have been conducted on drosophila, or the small fruit fly, as it is considered to be easier due to the simpler brain structure and more controllable genetic and environmental factors from an experimental standpoint. While there are strong dissimilarities between the functioning capabilities of a fruit fly in comparison to a human, these studies still provide valuable insight on how a human brain might work.\nNeural circuits and neuron firing is more easily observable in fruit flies through functional brain imaging, as neuronal pathways are simplified and, therefore, are easier to follow. These pathways may be simple, but by understanding the basis of neuron firing, this can lead to important studies on a human\u2019s neuronal pathway and eventually to a one-to-one neuron correspondence when a system is functioning.7"}
