{"id": "756065", "revid": "7698374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756065", "title": "Rinus Michels", "text": "Marinus Jacobus Hendricus \"Rinus\" Michels (; 9 February 1928 \u2013 3 March 2005) was a Dutch football player and coach. He played his entire career for Ajax, which he later managed, and played for and later managed the Netherlands national team for four spells. Throughout his career, he played as a forward. He is regarded as one of the greatest managers of all time.\nMichels became most notable for his coaching achievements; he won the European Cup with Ajax and the Spanish league with Barcelona, and had four tenures as coach of the Netherlands national team, who he led to reach the final of the 1974 FIFA World Cup and to win the 1988 UEFA European Championship.\nHe is credited with the invention of a major football playing style and set of tactics known as \"Total Football\" in the 1970s. He was named Coach of the Century by FIFA in 1999, in 2007 the greatest post-war football coach by \"The Times\" and in 2019 the greatest coach in the history of football by \"France Football\".\nPlaying career.\nEarly life.\nMichels was born in Amsterdam and grew up at the Olympiaweg, a street near the Olympic Stadium. He celebrated his ninth birthday on 9 February 1937, when he received a pair of football boots and an Ajax jersey. Moments later, he was playing with his father at a small field near their home. Via Joop K\u00f6hler, a friend of the family who was commissioner at Ajax, Michels was introduced to the club and became a junior member in 1940. When World War II started, and especially during the Dutch famine of 1944\u201345, Michels' career was set on hold.\nFrench club Lille had also wanted to sign Michels, but a playing career abroad did not materialize, as the Royal Netherlands Army did not allow him to go because he had to serve on active duty.\nAjax first team.\nOn 9 June 1946, Michels was invited into Ajax's first team squad to replace the injured Han Lambregt. In his debut, Ajax beat ADO 8\u20133, and Michels scored five times. That season, Ajax won their 14th division championship and a year later they won the Dutch national championship. Although there were doubts about Michels' technical skills, team members like Cor van der Hart and captain Joop Stoffelen were enthusiastic about his strength and heading capabilities. Indeed, Michels was characterized for his hard work rather than for his technical qualities.\nHe went on to become a regular for the club, and between 1946 and 1958, he appeared in 264 league matches for Ajax, in which he scored 122 goals. In 1958, four years after the introduction of professional football in the Netherlands and one year after winning his second league title, he was forced to end his career due to a back injury.\nNational team.\nMichels' international playing career with the Netherlands national team lasted five matches, making his debut on 8 June 1950 away to Sweden, a 4\u20131 defeat. He also lost all of his remaining matches as an \"Oranje\" player, 4\u20131 to Finland, 4\u20130 to Belgium, 6\u20131 to Sweden and 3\u20131 to Switzerland.\nCoaching career.\nEarly years in the Netherlands, Ajax, and Barcelona.\nMichels returned to Ajax as head coach in 1965. Under his tenure and along with great players such as Johan Cruyff and Johan Neeskens, Ajax went from relegation candidates to a team that won the national championship four times and the KNVB Cup three times in the following six years. In 1969, they reached the final of the European Cup for the first time, being defeated 4\u20131 by Italian side Milan. In 1971, he managed Ajax to the first of three consecutive European Cups, a feat only achieved previously by the great Real Madrid team of Alfredo Di St\u00e9fano and Ferenc Pusk\u00e1s. While at Ajax, Michels modernized the game by introducing what became known as \"Total Football\" and using the Offside trap. He then moved to Barcelona in the second part of 1971, being joined by Johan Cruyff in 1973. With Michels and Cruyff, the team won the Primera Divisi\u00f3n title in 1974, before Michels became manager of the Dutch national team.\n1974 World Cup.\nMichels was appointed national coach by the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB) after the Netherlands had qualified for the 1974 FIFA World Cup. His first game as the Netherlands' coach was on 27 March 1974 in a 1\u20131 draw against Austria. At the finals tournament in Germany, their third ever World Cup participation, the Dutch impressed many observers with their style of play which was backed up by their results; they won their first round group, then in the second round group they defeated Argentina and the defending world champions Brazil, and reached the final after five wins and one draw, with 14 goals scored and only one conceded in six matches. At that point, Michels was undefeated in nine matches as the Netherlands' coach. The Netherlands scored first against West Germany in the final, but the host team came back to defeat them 2\u20131, ending their run. That match was the last of Michels' first tenure in charge of the Dutch team, which he would return to coach ten years later.\nLater years.\nMichels later moved on to the United States where he coached in the ill-fated North American Soccer League. He ended his club coaching career with Bayer Leverkusen in 1989. He had his \"jour de gloire\", however, when he coached the Dutch team to European glory at the 1988 UEFA European Championship.\nEuropean champions.\nMichels returned to coach the team for the Euro 1988 tournament. After losing the first group match against the Soviet Union (1\u20130), the Netherlands went on to qualify for the semi-final by defeating England 3\u20131 (with a hat-trick by the tournament's top scorer Marco van Basten), and the Republic of Ireland (1\u20130). For many Dutch football supporters, the most important match in the tournament was the semi-final against West Germany, the host country, considered a revenge for the lost 1974 World Cup final (also in West Germany). Michels said after the match, \"We won the tournament, but we all know that the semi-final was the real final.\" Van Basten, who would later become national team coach, scored in the 89th minute of the game to sink the German side. The game is also remembered for its post-match shenanigans, including Ronald Koeman, who, in front of the German supporters, provocatively pretended to wipe his backside with the shirt of Olaf Thon as if it were toilet paper, an action Koeman later did not regret. The Netherlands won the final with a convincing victory over the Soviet Union, a rematch on the round robin game, through a header by Ruud Gullit and a remarkable volley by Van Basten. This was the national team's first, and to date only, major tournament win and it restored them to the forefront of international football after almost a decade in the wilderness for almost three years to come.\nDeath.\nMichels died on 3 March 2005 at a hospital in Aalst, Belgium, after a heart surgery in the hospital of Gareth, Spain (his second since 1986).\nStyle of management, personality and legacy.\nRegarded as one of the greatest managers of all time, Rinus Michels's tactics and \"Total football\" philosophy were influenced by his time playing under English manager Jack Reynolds at Ajax, who had implemented a similar playing style with the club to great success in the 1940s. When Michels himself later became manager of Ajax in 1965, he further developed this style around the team's main forward Johan Cruyff. Although Cruyff was seemingly fielded as centre forward, Michels encouraged Cruyff to roam freely around the pitch, using his technical ability, creativity, and intelligence to exploit the weaknesses in the opposition and create space and chances in addition to scoring goals. Cruyff's teammates also supported him by playing him in a similar manner, regularly switching positions to ensure that the tactical roles in the team were consistently filled. This role has retroactively been compared to the \"false 9\" position in contemporary football. Michels's favoured formation was the 4\u20133\u20133.\nThe major component of total football was the use of space, and the need to consistently create it. Former Ajax defender Barry Hulshoff described it as \"[the thing] we discussed the whole time. Cruyff always talked about where to run and where to stand, and when not to move\". He further elaborated that position switching was only made possible due to apt spatial awareness. He also described Total Football being proactive, as well as highlighting the use of pressing, which would be used to win back the ball or put the opposition under considerable pressure. Another aspect of the system was the use of the offside trap. Under Michels's system, Ajax enjoyed a highly successful period, winning four Eredivisie titles, three KNVB Cups, and one European Cup.\nThe rise of Total Football and its attacking qualities were also linked with the demise of the more defensive\u2013minded \"Catenaccio\", a system reliant heavily on man-marking and counter\u2013attacking, which was promoted most prominently by Italian sides Internazionale and Milan during the 1960s under Helenio Herrera and Nereo Rocco respectively. Unlike previous systems, in \"Total Football\", no out\u2013field player was fixed in their nominal role, which exposed weaknesses in the \"catenaccio\" tactical system; any player could assume the role of a forward, midfielder, or defender, at any given time depending on the circumstances. Due to players often switching positions with one another, man-marking strategies, such as \"catenaccio\", were no longer effective at coping with this highly fluid tactical system. Despite previously losing out 4\u20131 to Milan in the 1969 European Cup Final, who were managed by Rocco, a manager known for his defensive catenaccio strategy, in 1971, Michels's Ajax won the European Cup Final, defeating Panathinaikos 2\u20130, using \"Total Football\". The following year, Michels's successor at Ajax, \u0218tefan Kov\u00e1cs, continued to use Michels's \"Total Football\" philosophy, and defeated Inter 2\u20130 in the European Cup final; Dutch newspapers subsequently announced the \"destruction of \"Catenaccio\"\" at the hands of \"Total Football\". The following year, Ajax defeated Cesare Maldini's Milan 6\u20130 in the second leg of the European Super Cup, in a match in which the defensive \"catenaccio\" system employed by Milan was unable to stop Ajax, which saw the Dutch side win the title 6\u20131 on aggregate; this was the worst defeat for an Italian team in an UEFA competition final.\nTotal football also had some weaknesses, however, which were notably exploited in the final of the 1974 FIFA World Cup by West Germany. Michels and Cruyff saw their ability to introduce playmaking stifled in the second half of the match by the effective marking of Berti Vogts. This allowed Franz Beckenbauer, Uli Hoene\u00df, and Wolfgang Overath to gain a stronghold in midfield, thus, enabling West Germany to win 2\u20131. Moreover, as man-marking alone was insufficient to cope with the fluidity of \"total football\", Italian coaches consequently began to create a new tactical system that mixed man-marking with zonal defence in order to counter this strategy, which came to be known as \"zona mista\" (\"mixed zone,\" in Italian), or \"gioco all'italiana\" (\"gameplay in the Italian manner,\" in Italian), in Italian football, as it mixed elements of Italian \"catenaccio\" (man-marking) with elements of \"total football\" (zonal marking), with Giovanni Trapattoni as one its main and most successful proponents from the 1970s onward.\nMichels became known as someone keen on his money and did not want to spend much of it. A common joke in the Ajax changing rooms in those days was, \"Does anybody know the color of Michels' wallet?\". His IQ was high. During foreign trips he always brought a book with him, which he wanted to have read completely before coming home. He was known as someone who did not need anybody and who felt happy on his own, but sometimes he joined his teammates and shared their enthusiastic friendships. At the celebrations of Ajax' 50th birthday in 1950, he was the organizer of the humoristic show that was held and during traditional parties, he and his friend Hans Boskamp climbed up the stages to sing some duets. After matches, he was always soaping his hot body down in the showers of the changing rooms as well, even when the game was lost.\nMichels was also known as a practical joker. At a hotel, he once borrowed a fur coat of a lady and pretended to be a lady to his teammates. During a training session in Lille, the players went fishing and Michels, who did not enjoy himself, jumped into the water.\nDue to his authoritarian style as coach, Michels was called \"The General\". He said, \"Professional football is something like war. Whoever behaves too properly, is lost.\" This has often been misquoted as \"Football is war.\" Michels felt the quote was taken out of context as he did not intend to equate war with football. Michels was named coach of the century by FIFA in 1999. In 2007 he was named the greatest post-war football coach by \"The Times\", and in 2019, he was listed as the greatest coach in the history of football by France Football.\nThe Rinus Michels Award, which rewards the best managers in Dutch football, is named in his honour.\nHonours.\nPlayer.\nAjax\nManager.\nAjax\nBarcelona\n1. FC K\u00f6ln\nNetherlands\nIndividual\nOrders"}
{"id": "756066", "revid": "1246262063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756066", "title": "Boysie Oakes", "text": "Boysie Oakes is a fictional secret agent created by the British spy novelist John Gardner in 1964 at the height of a period of spy fiction mania. \nCharacter biography.\nOakes is mistakenly recruited into a British spy agency despite being a coward who wants to be left alone. He features in eight novels over an eleven year period and eventually becomes the head of the agency.\nAppearances.\nLiterature.\nHe appears in eleven novels: \"The Liquidator\" (1964), \"Understrike\" (1965), \"Amber Nine\" (1966), \"Madrigal\" (1967), \"Founder Member\" (1969), \"Traitor's Exit\" (1970), \"The Airline Pirates\" (1970), published in the U.S. as \"Air Apparent\", and \"A Killer for a Song\" (1975).\nHe also appears in the short stories \"A Handful of Rice\" and \"Corkscrew\" in \"Hideaway\" (1968) and in the short stories \"Boysie Oakes and The Explosive Device\" and \"Sunset At Paleokastritsa\" in \"The Assassination File\" (1974). \nFilm.\nThe first novel in the series, \"The Liquidator\", was made into a feature film of the same name in 1965, starring Rod Taylor as Boysie Oakes."}
{"id": "756067", "revid": "41485738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756067", "title": "ITV Meridian", "text": "ITV Meridian (previously Meridian Broadcasting) is the holder of the ITV franchise for the South and South East of England. The station was launched at midnight on 1 January 1993, replacing previous broadcaster Television South, and is owned and operated by ITV plc, under the licensee of ITV Broadcasting Limited. The company was one of several (but not all) ITV plc-owned regional companies to have its legal name changed on 29 December 2006, when it became ITV Meridian Ltd. Until 25 November 2025, this company was, along with most other regional companies owned by ITV plc, listed with Companies House as a \"Dormant company\".\nThe company broadcasts to the region from transmitters at Hannington, Midhurst, Rowridge, Whitehawk Hill, Hastings, Heathfield, Tunbridge Wells, Bluebell Hill, Dover and, since 2015, Oxford (previously part of the ITV Central region), as well as associated relays.\nToday, ITV Meridian operates from studios in Whiteley, Hampshire, producing regional news services for three sub-regions, covering the South Coast of England, the South East of England and the Thames Valley.\nHistory.\nFormation.\nITV Meridian was formed as Meridian Broadcasting in 1991. The company consisted of a consortium between Mills &amp; Allen International (MAI), Selectv (15%) and Central Independent Television (20%), the latter of whom advised the consortium. Central and Selectv were instrumental in winning the franchise as a low bidder. Meridian intended to operate as a publisher broadcaster, meaning that the majority of programmes would be commissioned from independent producers rather than produced in-house.\nIn the ITV franchise auction of 1991, Meridian Broadcasting faced three other opponents in gaining the franchise, including the incumbent Television South and bids from Carlton Communications and CPV-TV. Meridian bid \u00a336.5 million for the franchise, lower than TVS's bid of \u00a359.8 million; however, the bid made by TVS was rejected following an unsatisfactory business plan. As the highest qualified bidder, Meridian therefore won the franchise.\nLaunch.\nMeridian Broadcasting launched at midnight on 1 January 1993 replacing Television South, with the programme \"Meridian \u2013 The First 10 Minutes\", a 10-minute outside broadcast from Winchester Cathedral presented by Debbie Thrower and previewing the station's forthcoming output.\nOther launch day programmes included Michael Palin's documentary \"First Night on Meridian\" and the first \"Meridian News\" bulletins for its three sub-regions. Meridian advertised its presence as the new ITV contractor heavily; promotions began appearing on TVS several weeks before the launch and the new company's logo was also incorporated into the product for the first advert shown on the station \u2013 the special edition Ford Fiesta Meridian, available through Southern Ford dealers.\nPost-launch.\nSix months after the launch of Meridian Broadcasting, the new company joined up with HTV, Westcountry Television, Channel Television and S4C to form a joint advertising company operated by Meridian and HTV.\nShortly after, MAI began to expand by buying Anglia Television, the ITV franchise for the east of England, in 1994. The following year, MAI became a major shareholder in the consortium that won the franchise for Channel 5. In 1996, MAI merged with United Newspapers (via an agreed takeover by United) to form United News &amp; Media (UNM). The resulting company owned the \"Daily Express\" newspaper, Meridian Broadcasting, Anglia Television, and a large shareholding (through the \"Yorkshire Post\") in Yorkshire Tyne Tees Television, the owners of Yorkshire Television and Tyne Tees Television. The stake in Yorkshire Tyne Tees Television was sold to Granada Media, allowing them to take control of the two franchises in 1997. United News &amp; Media later agreed to buy Scottish Television's 20% stake in HTV and on 28 June 1997, HTV was taken over fully by UNM for \u00a3370 million.\nIn 1999, plans emerged of a merger between UNM and rival Carlton Communications; however, these talks failed when it appeared that Meridian Broadcasting would have to be sold off as a condition of the deal. As a result, the television assets of UNM were sold to Granada; however, because of regulations stating that the company could not control that large an audience share, the broadcasting arm of HTV was sold to Carlton Television in exchange for the 20% stake that Central Independent Television held in Meridian Broadcasting.\nITV Meridian.\nIn 2002, Granada Television and Carlton Television decided to consolidate the separate brandings for the ITV franchises that they controlled, changing the name of the region to ITV Meridian, with the on screen name of ITV1 used before all non-regional programming. The consolidation became further pronounced when Carlton Television and Granada Television merged to form ITV plc in 2004. 2004 also saw the move of ITV Meridian from their previous Northam studio complex to a new studio base in Whiteley, Hampshire.\nIn the subsequent years, ITV Meridian's workforce has been reduced slowly with its operations considerably downgraded. This came to a head when Michael Grade announced his intention to reduce the number of regional programmes from 17 to nine. As part of these plans, which were approved by Ofcom in 2008, the three editions of the news programme \"Meridian Tonight\" were replaced with a single edition with a pre-recorded opt out for either the South or South East of the region. The plans resulted in over half of Meridian's existing staff being made redundant; all employees wishing to remain with the company were obliged to re-apply for jobs. Some staff opted for voluntary redundancy and many others were left without jobs. Strike action was threatened as a result of the announcement.\nAt present the only local programming that ITV Meridian provides for the region is regional news programming and a pan-regional monthly late-night 30-minute political discussion programme, \"The Last Word\". In 2013 proposals were approved by Ofcom that reversed the 2009 consolidation of ITV Meridian's regional news programmes, resulting in the reinstatement of the three sub-regions (South, East and Thames Valley). However to maintain lower costs, the main half-hour programme at 6pm contains a minimum 20 minutes of regional news (10 minutes in the Thames Valley) and daily use of \"shared content\" from outside the region. The practice of broadcasting one programme live and pre-recording others, using the same presenting team and studio set, continues.\nStudios.\nWhen Meridian originally won the franchise in 1991, its plans were to purchase buildings, not unlike its current arrangement today: with a small studio for continuity and local news. This was planned because, being a publisher-broadcaster, it did not plan to make any programmes itself, instead buying in programmes from independent production companies. However, when TVS lost its franchise, TVS's plans were to become an independent production company based at Vinters Park, Maidstone, site of the former TVS South East division. Meridian took the opportunity to buy the Southampton studios from TVS.\nMeridian did put these studios to good use in the future; on some occasions, Meridian would hire its studios out to the independent companies to use for the programmes, and, under the ownership of United News &amp; Media, some Channel 5 programmes were made there. However, as a publisher-broadcaster, the facilities were generally too big for Meridian. By 2004, ITV plc had decided that regional programming would be phased out in the years to come. In 2004, Meridian closed their Northam studios and moved to a unit in a business park in Whiteley. These new headquarters at Forum One, Solent Business Park, contained a newsroom plus the main technical production and transmission arms of the programmes including three small news studios.\nIn the summer of 2008, Meridian's former studios at Southampton started to be dismantled, with plans to build a block of flats in its place. In December 2010, the site was still lying derelict after developer Oakdene fell into administration in 2009.\nOver the weekend of 22\u201323 October 2011, ITV Meridian moved to new smaller premises in Fusion Three, on the same business park at Whiteley and across the road from its previous office. The new headquarters are again located in a conventional office building, and include two small studios, one of which is used for \"ITV News Meridian\". The other is used for weather forecasts for the three sub-regions. The move was due to the cancellation of the lease at its former Whiteley premises.\nIn addition to Meridian's Southampton headquarters, the company operated other studios and news bureaux. Upon launch, the south east output came from The Maidstone Studios before moving to a purpose-built studio centre at New Hythe near Maidstone in Kent in 1994. Following the move of the studio to Whiteley, the complex closed with a south east newsroom with producers and reporters being moved back to The Maidstone Studios. Additionally, Meridian originally opened and operated a new studio complex at Newbury for its Meridian West operation. This closed in 2001, when the studio was moved to Southampton.\nSub-regions.\nWhen Meridian launched, it divided its news operations into three separate sub regions. These regions were served by their version of news programme \"Meridian Tonight\", presented by an individual team of presenters from a studio within the sub region. These regions were:\nThe services remained without major modification until 2001 when the Newbury complex was closed and the Meridian West studio operation was moved to the Southampton headquarters; Newsgathering remained the same as previously. When the company moved to Whiteley in 2004, presentation of all three editions of \"Meridian Tonight\" moved with the company, resulting in the closure of the New Hythe studio base, although newsgathering in the south-east was unaffected as journalists and reporters moved back to the Maidstone Studios. Despite this move not being uncommon in the broadcasting industry, some considered the move controversial, particularly as the Meridian South East programme would be presented 60 miles from the nearest part of the South East region and 160 miles from its furthest point.\nOn 4 December 2006, the Meridian West and Central South sub regions were merged to form the non-broadcast region ITV Thames Valley. This new service was broadcast from Whiteley, using Central's Abingdon base as the main newsgathering centre.\nUnder cost-cutting plans announced by ITV in September 2007 and agreed to by the UK's broadcasting regulator Ofcom in October 2008, the region's three sub-regions would be replaced with one programme. This new programme would be split between the South East and a combined South/Thames Valley region for the first half of the programme, and joined as one for the remainder of the programme. One of the opt out segments would be pre-recorded depending on the regions news. The new programme began on 9 February 2009, presented by Sangeeta Bhabra and Fred Dinenage. Pan-regional bulletins including morning ones during \"Daybreak\", which are branded \"Daybreak Meridian News\", are also used in the region. The sub-regions retain their own local advertisements.\nIn 2013, following a network wide rebrand of ITV, the long-standing \"Meridian Tonight\" brand was retired and replaced by \"ITV News Meridian\". On 23 July 2013, proposals to reintroduce some elements of the sub-regional services were approved by Ofcom. As a result, \"ITV News Meridian\" now also produces separate breakfast, lunchtime and weekend bulletins for the South and South East with opt-outs within the main 6pm programme extended slightly to 20 minutes. In the former Thames Valley region, plans were also approved for a ten-minute opt out within the 6pm programme for the south of England and a full late night bulletin on weekdays after \"News at Ten\".\nIdentity.\nDuring Meridian's years as an independent broadcaster their on-screen idents typically featured a form-up of their logo. From their launch this featured an exploding mix of orange, yellow and blue, which came together to form the distinctive sun/moon face logo. The unusual logo design was reportedly inspired by maritime images (the sun/moon face is a recurring feature on compasses, sextants and other nautical artefacts used in the navigation of ships), appropriately reflecting the south's long seafaring history. The name \"Meridian\", which derives from the Latin \"meridion\u0101lis\" meaning \"of the south\", may also be linked to the Prime Meridian (the boundary between the Western and Eastern Hemispheres of the globe, and a key landmark in the measurement of time), which passes through the middle of the region, although this has not been confirmed.\nOn 2 September 1996, this ident was replaced by one with a deep purple/blue background and an emphasis on the deep colours of the logo, as well as a smoother form-up. This ident was replaced on 5 October 1998 by one with a yellow background and featuring a small ITV logo underneath the Meridian name. On 8 November 1999, the emphasis was on the network's hearts logo, with a very small Meridian logo only featuring at the end of the form-up. This look was in use until October 2002 when ITV1 in England and Wales abandoned local continuity and idents. The only exceptions were ITV1 idents shown before regional programming, which featured the word \"Meridian\" below the ITV1 logo. However, even this did not last, and only a few years later these regional idents were dropped. Meridian for a while managed to retain some identity by featuring their (sun/moon face) logo on the local weather forecast, as well as the news desk of \"Meridian News\" and \"Meridian Tonight\". However, the logo was completely removed in 2004, last seen at the start of the late-night weather forecast on 5 December 2004. On 1 February 2005, it was replaced with a generic \"ITV Meridian\" logo, the official name of the franchise.\nSince 2006, all idents have been generic to the entire network with no difference between regions and only the ITV1 name being used. On 14 January 2013, the station's on-air identity was changed to ITV, along with all other ITV plc-owned franchises. \nFrom September 2014, however, Meridian's identity was revived by an announcement (including the sub-region) immediately prior to the evening edition of \"ITV Meridian News\".\nProgramming.\nMeridian Broadcasting was originally intended to function as a publisher-broadcaster, commissioning most programmes from independent producers and with in-house production largely restricted to regional news, sport and current affairs. However, over time and as its ownership changed, Meridian began to make a number of regional and networked programmes itself. As its parent company MAI became a significant shareholder in Channel 5, Meridian supplied a number of the new channel's programmes for the network such as sports programme \"Turnstyle\", youth programme \"The Mag\" and children's show \"Havakazoo\".\nMeridian also geared a large amount of its network output towards younger viewers, with independent commissions including \"Wizadora\" for pre-school children, plus \"ZZZap!, The Ruth Rendell Mysteries, It's a Mystery, The Vanishing Man, Jane Austen's Emma, William and Mary\" and \"Eye of the Storm\" for older children. Drama became a successful genre for the station, with Peter Kosminsky's \"No Child of Mine\", tackling the emotionally difficult subject of child abuse, winning Meridian a BAFTA award. Meridian presents Mary Wesley's two novels: \"Harnessing Peacocks\" and \"The Vacillations of Poppy Carew\". Later, the same production team tackled vicious childhood bullying in \"Walking on the Moon\". Meridian's two-part production \"In the Name of Love\" in 1999 starred Tara Fitzgerald, Tim Dutton and Mark Strong, and was written by Sarah-Louise Hawkins and directed by Ferdinand Fairfax. \"Hornblower\" was a Sunday night success for the ITV network while another Sunday night favourite, \"Where the Heart Is\", transferred production from Anglia Television to Meridian in 2002 \u2013 the station's last major contribution at a network level."}
{"id": "756073", "revid": "7611264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756073", "title": "Whiteley", "text": "Whiteley is a planned community of 6,500 homes in the county of Hampshire, England, United Kingdom near Fareham. The development straddles the boundary between two council districts: the Borough of Fareham to the south and west, and the City of Winchester to the north and east.\nLocation.\nWhiteley is located in southern Hampshire between the cities of Portsmouth and Southampton and close to the market town of Fareham. The development is situated close to Junction 9 of the M27 motorway. Rail services are provided from Swanwick railway station to the south - services between London Victoria/Portsmouth and Southampton via Hamble, or Botley railway station to the north - services between London Waterloo and Portsmouth via Eastleigh. Cycle tracks interconnect the town with the two stations, and a Bus 28a connects to Swanwick and on to Fareham Bus Station.\nHistory.\nHistorically, the site now occupied by Whiteley was farmland and coppice. The nearest historical settlements are those of Park Gate situated just south of Swanwick Hill, Little Park to the South, Swanwick to the West, Botley and Curdridge to the North. \nFarm land taken over by the initial development included Rookery, Yew Tree, Sweethills and Whiteley. North Whiteley development was based on land released by Bury, Bridge and Barn Farms. Barn Farmhouse which remains in North Whiteley is listed by Historic England as a C17 timber frame house with a C18 extension. \nThe wooded areas in Whiteley were used to provide shelter to troops in the build-up of forces for transportation to northern France in preparation for D-Day during the second world war. This is evidenced by the remains of a War Department water tank on the edge of the Bere Forest to the north of the community.\nPart of the M27 motorway constructed to the south of the development was opened in February 1978.\nIn the early 1980s Hampshire County Council developed draft proposals for land north of what was then known as the western wards of Fareham. The new community was to be known as Whiteley after the name of the farm that lay in the centre of the development area. This development comprised 3,300 houses 16,500 m2 of offices and 7,500 m2 of retail, plus a community centre and a junior school.\nConstruction of the Solent business park started in the mid-1980s and the first houses were completed in the late 1980s, although construction slowed for a few years following a crash in the British residential property market during the mid-1990s. From 1996 construction recommenced, but has been paused since 2020 (covid epidemic).\nOne of the earliest buildings in Whiteley was the Solent Hotel and Spa which was constructed in the early 1990s.\nIn September 2007, British Land announced plans to spend upwards of \u00a3100m redeveloping Whiteley Village and reconstructing it as a district centre, while also adding housing and a hotel to the area.\nThe Whiteley village Outlet was demolished in Autumn 2011 (finishing by November 2011), with the exception of the medium-sized Tesco supermarket.\nThe new development was opened in 2014.\nIn July 2018 Winchester District Council approved an outline planning application for a further development, North Whiteley consisting of 3,500 residences with provision for two primary schools and a secondary school, plus three new routes linking Whiteley to Botley Road. This development should be largely complete by 2027.\nThe part of the development which falls in the Winchester district became a civil parish in 2003.\nWhiteley was recognised as a Parish in Portsmouth Diocese in 2021. Hope Church Whiteley began as the town first became established about 25 years ago, within people's homes. It moved to the Community Centre in Gull Coppice before, in 2021, it moved to its new building at Cornerstone School. It is a multicultural, inter-generational church.\nWhiteley today.\nApart from the residential areas, which house around 10,000 residents, the main focus is the Whiteley Shopping Centre, an open-air pedestrianised mall (not to be confused with 'Whiteley Village' in Walton-on-Thames). Stores include Marks &amp; Spencer, Next plc, Boots, WH Smith and many other common High Street names but there are also other units that were specifically earmarked for local enterprises. Parking is available for 1500 vehicles and is free for the first 4 hours and after 6pm. In 2015 a new leisure complex adjacent to Whiteley Shopping opened, providing a nine-screen cinema and a further five restaurants.\nWhiteley also contains the Solent Business Park which consists of a number of large companies, including Zurich Financial Services, the new headquarters for NATS (formerly National Air Traffic Services) and the offices and studios of ITV Meridian.\nWhiteley New Town Issues.\n\u2022 The town started with a business park, a hotel and an outlet centre spurred off junction 9 of the M27. The single entrance and exit road resulted in start and end of day traffic jams. \nA lengthy set of traffic mitigation schemes has been implemented, but the resultant roadworks have lasted over 10 years and problems with access to the M27 continue while the roadworks are ongoing.\n\u2022 The new development includes a set of roads (Bluebell, Curbridge and Whiteley Way) which are designed as low speed through routes to Botley Road A3051. The roads are owned by the housing development companies of North Whiteley, which results in legal issues, as they are not yet roads adopted and managed by Hampshire County Council.\n\u2022 The continued development of properties in North Whiteley and resultant groundworks results in noise, dust, mud and traffic. The contractors utilise road cleaning vehicles to mitigate the dust, but with limited success.\n\u2022 Management of parts of communal spaces was allocated to management companies by the developers. Local residents need to monitor and control the fees charged by these management companies.\n\u2022 Secondary school children need to commute to The Henry Cort Community College (1 hour walking distance). Hampshire's application to build a new secondary school within Whiteley Town was approved and building commenced in 2025. This will mitigate this problem from 2027 onward, though for an adjustment period pupils based north of the M27 will be bused to the new location.\n\u2022 The new build has threatened to displace local species. Mitigation efforts such as Bat Boxes, Hedgehog houses and Bird Boxes were implemented by the developers as required by Winchester District Council. These biodiverse green spaces now need to be protected and maintained in the long term by the Town Council.\nWhiteley Copses and Woodland.\nWhiteley is bordered on the East by public woodlands managed by Forestry England, leading up to Botley Wood and Everett's and Mushes Copses. Botley Wood is run by Hampshire County Council.\nThe town is constructed around a number of smaller woodland copses and coppices. These include:\nRound Coppice between Solent Hotel and Village Centre;\nHill Coppice between Business Park and M27;\nColdland Copse south of Ridge Lane;\nColdland Meadow north of Barn Owl Close;\nSuttons Copse west of Ridge Lane;\nBedlams Copse between Ridge Lane and Bluebell Way;\nHangman's Copse between Bluebell Way and Botley Road;\nQuavey's Copse south west of Bluebell Way;\nGlassfield Copse west of Bluebell Way;\nRound Copse north of Bluebell Way;\nSawpit Copse between Bluebell Way and Whiteley Way;\nBushy Land inside Sweethill Crescent;\nGull Coppice between Yew Tree Drive and Meadowside, and \nYew Tree Woodland Park south of Yew Tree Drive.\nDemographics.\nThe development has an overwhelmingly young population (79% under 44 years), white (96.95%), home-owning (87.23%) population of professionals and aspirational skilled workers (80% in social grade AB and C1). Whiteley is reported by the local health authority to have a higher than average rate of divorce and separation (11% versus 6% nationally)."}
{"id": "756074", "revid": "134756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756074", "title": "Dick Chudnow", "text": ""}
{"id": "756075", "revid": "125972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756075", "title": "Bristol Old Vic Theatre School", "text": "The Bristol Old Vic Theatre School (BOVTS) is a drama school in Bristol, England. The institution provides training in acting and production for careers in film, television and theatre.\nBOVTS was an affiliate of the Conservatoire for Dance and Drama. until the conservatoire was disbanded in 2021. Its higher education awards are currently validated by the University of the West of England, and its students graduate alongside members of UWE Bristol's Faculty of Arts, Creative Industries and Education. It is a member of the Federation of Drama Schools.\nHistory.\nThe School opened in October 1946, eight months after the founding of its parent Bristol Old Vic Theatre Company, in a room above a fruit merchant's warehouse in the Rackhay near the stage door of the Theatre Royal, with support from Sir Laurence Olivier. (The yard of the derelict St Nicholas School, next to the warehouse, was still used by the Company for rehearsals of crowd scenes and stage fights as late as the early 1960s, such as for John Hale's productions of \"Romeo and Juliet\" starring the Canadian actor Paul Massie and Annette Crosbie, a former student of the School, and Rostand's\" Cyrano de Bergerac\" with Peter Wyngarde. Students from the Theatre School frequently played in these crowd scenes and fights.)\nThe School continued in these premises for eight years because of the Old Vic's lack of funds in the post-war decade until 1954 when the Company produced a small-scale end-of season topical musical for the entertainment of regular patrons and to allow the actors to 'let their hair down' after a season of mainly serious productions.\nThis musical, \"Salad Days\" by Julian Slade and Dorothy Reynolds, proved very popular with Bristol audiences and was subsequently transferred to London's West End where it was an instant hit and played for more than four years, making it the longest running production in West End history at the time. \u00a37,000 from the \"Salad Days\" profits \u2013 a large sum in those days\u2014 was given to the School towards the purchase and conversion of two large adjoining Victorian villas at 1 and 2 Downside Road in Clifton. In 1995, the enduring benefit to students of that donation was formally recognised when a new custom-built dance and movement studio in the School's back garden was named the \"Slade/Reynolds Studio\".\nMany members of the theatrical profession have taught at the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School. This included Rudi Shelly,who joined the teaching staff only two weeks after the School opened in 1946 and was still working into his nineties. Alumni from around the world gathered in Bristol for his funeral at which the eulogy was delivered by alumna Stephanie Cole. Apart from students of the School, over the years many established actors from around the world sought out Rudi Shelly's master classes when visiting or working in England.\nAt the time of the School's move to its current premises in Downside Road, Clifton, in 1956, the Principal was Duncan (Bill) Ross,who had succeeded the first Principal, Edward Stanley in 1954. After guiding the School through seven difficult years that are nonetheless still regarded by his former students as a golden age, Ross left in late 1961 to take up a teaching post in the USA. Soon after the departure of this much-loved principal, other key staff members resigned, including Daphne Heard and Maggie Collins, and Paula Gwyn-Davies, the School Secretary.\nAfter a short interregnum under the actor Richard Ainley, in 1963 the post of Principal was taken by Nat Brenner, a distinguished actor and theatre technician and, at that time, general manager of the Bristol Old Vic Theatre. Brenner's stewardship was regarded by students of the time as another golden age. He remained in the post until 1980, when he was succeeded by Christopher Denys, who retired in the summer of 2007 to be replaced by Paul Rummer as Principal and Sue Wilson in the new post of Artistic Director. Paul Rummer retired in 2020 and was succeeded by Fiona Francombe, previously the director of Bristol's Bottle Yard Studios. Until 1989 the Theatre School was part of the Bristol Old Vic Company, but it is now a financially independent organisation.\nOn the 6th January 2025, the school announced it would no longer be accepting applications for undergraduate degree programmes, and not admitting any new undergraduate students from September 2025. The school will \"continue delivering our distinct suite of intensive postgraduate courses and exciting, accessible short courses\", blaming the change on financial issues caused by increasing costs and decreasing income as faced by other institutions. \nCourses.\nGenerally the theatre school accepted 28 people out of approximately 2,500 applications per year for the three-year BA acting course, making it one of the most selective drama schools in the world.\nApplicants were judged purely on talent in two rounds of intensive auditions.\nIt has its own premises in Clifton, bought with proceeds from the London success of \"Salad Days\".\nIt previously had working links with the Drama Department of the University of Bristol, which still holds many papers of the Theatre School in its Theatre Collection. For many years it presented regular student productions in the Department's experimental Drama Studio converted from an indoor tennis court off a corridor in the Wills Memorial Building behind the University's Bell Tower at the top of Bristol's fashionable Park Street. Students from the School and the Drama Department shared many of each other's formal lectures and a number of the Department's graduates went on to continue their studies as full-time students at the School.\nHaving struggled with limited resources until the 1960s, the School now has access to several local performance venues, including the Redgrave Theatre at Clifton College (named after the actor Sir Michael Redgrave, an old boy of the College) the Bristol Old Vic theatre complex, including the Theatre Royal, Weston Studio and Circomedia in Portland Square. It also takes productions on tour to locations in the West Country, a tradition dating back to the 1950s when for several years students moved to Dartington Hall in South Devon for two weeks each spring where they rehearsed and presented a public production in the Barn Theatre. The School was able to use broadcasting studio facilities at the University Drama Studio for radio drama training in the 1950s and also ran occasional courses in conjunction with the BBC at their Bristol Studios in Whiteladies Road. In 2002, the Theatre School bought the former BBC Christchurch radio studios in Clifton and has further developed the facilities there which include sound studios and sound and video editing suites which are used by students and also by music and media industry clients. The school has scenic workshops in Bedminster used by the technical courses.\nAs well as actors, the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School also provides comprehensive training courses for all theatre, radio, film, and television professionals.\nIts graduates are to be found in key positions as actors, directors, set designers, costumer designers, lighting designers and stage and company managers throughout the world.\nIn January 2025 the School announced that it was closing applications to its undergraduate degrees to new students that would have started their studies in Sept 2025. The School continued to accept applications for postgraduate courses and will remain teaching all current students until the end of their studies. The School is working on a new plan to launch additional full-time training from Sept 2026, but needs to create a more financially robust model of income to secure its future. "}
{"id": "756076", "revid": "49775241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756076", "title": "Ugo Cavallero", "text": "Ugo Cavallero (20September 188013September 1943) was an Italian military commander before and during World War II. He was the first Chief of the \n\"Comando Supremo\" (Italian Supreme Command) on June 1941. He was dismissed from his command due to his lacklustre performance, and was arrested upon the fall of Benito Mussolini's regime. Cavallero was later freed by the Germans, but refused to collaborate and was found dead the following day.\nBiography.\nEarly life and career.\nBorn in Casale Monferrato, Piedmont, Cavallero had a privileged childhood as a member of the Italian nobility. After attending military school, Cavallero was commissioned a second lieutenant in 1900. Cavallero later attended college and graduated in 1911, earning a degree in mathematics. A man of vast culture, Cavallero was fluent in both German and English. Still in the army, Cavallero fought in Libya in 1913, during the Italo-Turkish War, and was awarded a Bronze Medal of Military Valor.\nIn 1907, Cavallero was initiated in the regular Masonic Lodge \"Dante Alighieri\" of Turin, which was affiliated to the Grand Orient of Italy. Subsequently, he become a member of the Scottish Rite Serenenissima Gran Loggia d'Italia located in Rome, where on 15 August 1918 he received the 33rd and highest degree.\nWorld War I.\nIn 1915, Cavallero was transferred to the Italian Supreme Command. A skilled organizer and tactician, Cavallero became a brigadier general and chief of the Operations Office of the Italian Supreme Command in 1918. In this capacity, Cavallero was instrumental in forming plans that led to Italian victories at Piave and Vittorio Veneto during World War I. During his time as chief of the plan of Italian General Staff, he developed an antipathy with Pietro Badoglio, the \"Sottocapo di Stato Maggiore\" (vice chief of the staff) of the army.\nInterwar period.\nCavallero retired from the army in 1919 but later rejoined in 1925, at which time he became Benito Mussolini\u2019s undersecretary of war. A committed fascist, Cavallero was made a senator in 1926 and in 1927 became a major general. After leaving the army for a second time, Cavallero became involved in business and diplomatic enterprises throughout the late 1920s and early 1930s.\nCavallero rejoined the army for the third and final time in 1937. Promoted to lieutenant general, he became commander of the combined Italian forces in Italian East Africa in 1938 and was made a full general in 1940.\nWorld War II.\nAfter Italy entered World War II, on 6 December 1940 Cavallero replaced Pietro Badoglio as Chief of the Defence Staff. Shortly after his appointment, Cavallero was sent to command the Italian forces involved in the unsuccessful Greco-Italian War until the spring of 1941. While he managed to halt the Greek advance, Cavallero was unable to break the stalemate until the German intervention. In the meantime, his role as Chief of Staff was filled by General Alfredo Guzzoni.\nOn 15 and 19 May 1941 Cavallero, submitted proposals for the \"Stato Maggiore\"s complete reorganization to Mussolini. This was implemented in June. The \"Stato Maggiore Generale\" was redesignated \"Comando Supremo\", made more efficient and transformed from a mere advisory body into a true military high command. Under Cavallero, the \"Comando Supremo\" maintained good relations with \"Oberbefehlshaber S\u00fcd\", the command of German forces in Italy. Cavallero worked closely with German Field Marshal Albert Kesselring; however he had a rather conflicting relationship with Field Marshal Erwin Rommel, whose advance into Egypt after his success at the Battle of Gazala he opposed, advocating instead the planned invasion of Malta; his opinion, shared by Kesselring and Rintelen, was however discounted by Hitler and Mussolini. Cavallero was promoted to Marshal of Italy on 1 July 1942, soon after the promotion of Rommel to Field Marshal (largely to prevent Rommel from out-ranking him). Despite having a good grasp on the problems inherent to the war in the Mediterranean that Italy had to fight, his acquiescence to Mussolini's views (for example his insistence on augmenting the Italian contingent fighting on the Eastern Front) led to a fatal dispersion of Italy's meagre resources.\nIn January 1943, after the definitive loss of the African campaign and the setbacks suffered by the Italian Army in Russia, Cavallero was dismissed and replaced by General Vittorio Ambrosio. In response to Cavallero's dismissal, members of the Fascist leadership like Galeazzo Ciano, openly hostile to him, openly expressed their satisfaction.\nAfter Mussolini's government was toppled by the King, the newly appointed Prime Minister Pietro Badoglio ordered the arrest of Cavallero. In a letter written in his own defence, Cavallero claimed he had opposed Mussolini and his regime. After the Armistice of Cassibile in September 1943, the Germans freed him. Kesselring offered Cavallero command of the forming armed forces of the Italian Social Republic, but the discovery of the letter led some to question his loyalty.\nDeath.\nIn the morning of 14 September 1943, he was found dead by a gunshot in the garden of a hotel in Frascati, where he had dined and talked with Kesselring the night before. It is still up to debate whether he committed suicide or was assassinated by the Germans. It seems, however, that he firmly expressed his will to refuse to continue collaborating with the Germans."}
{"id": "756079", "revid": "24249560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756079", "title": "Ridwan (name)", "text": "Ridwan ( \"ri\u1e0dw\u0101n\") is an Arabic masculine given name meaning \"favor, pleasure, goodwill\". In post-10th-century Islamic tradition, Ridwan is the name of an angel in charge of guarding the gates of Paradise, Jannah.\nVariants.\nOther forms of Ridwan include \"Rizwan\", \"Rizvan\", and \"Ridvan\" or \"R\u0131dvan\" in Albanian, Bosnian, Indonesian, Kashmiri, Malay, Pashto, Persian, Punjabi, Tajik, Turkish, Urdu, and other languages heavily influenced by Arabic directly, or through Persian or Turkish.\nThe only two variants used in Albanian are Ridvan and Rizvan.\nIn Bangladesh, the name may be spelled as \"Rizwan\", \"Rezwan\", \"Rejwan\" or \"Redwan\". It may also be transliterated as Redhwan, Redwhan or Redwan.\nIn Brunei, Indonesia, and Malaysia it is alternatively spelled as \"Ridwan\", \"Riduan\", and \"Ridhwan\". \"Redouane\" is the most common spelling in French.\nThe female equivalent of this name is \"Ridwana\" or \"Rizwana\"."}
{"id": "756083", "revid": "12881194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756083", "title": "Rumsfeld v. Padilla", "text": "Rumsfeld v. Padilla, 542 U.S. 426 (2004), was a United States Supreme Court case, in which Jos\u00e9 Padilla, an American citizen, sought \"habeas corpus\" relief against Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, as a result of his detention by the military as an \"unlawful combatant.\"\nOn May 8, 2002, Padilla, a U.S. citizen, flew from Pakistan to Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. As he left the plane, Padilla was apprehended by federal agents executing a material witness warrant issued by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in connection with its grand jury investigation into the September 11th attacks by terrorists. Initially Padilla was considered a \"material witness,\" without charges filed and was given very limited access to legal counsel. He was later classified as an \"enemy combatant,\" which, the George W. Bush administration claimed as justification to imprison him indefinitely, and without legal recourse or access, as with non-citizen suspects in the war on terror.\nPadilla's attorney, Donna Newman, claiming to act as his next friend and on his behalf, filed a petition for \"habeas corpus\" in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On December 4, 2002, the court denied the petition and held that the President of the United States, as Commander-in-Chief had the authority to designate as an \"enemy combatant\" an American citizen captured on American soil, and, through the Secretary of Defense, to detain him for the duration of armed conflict with Al-Qaeda.\nThe case was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which held that the President lacked the authority to order the military detentions of American citizens captured on American soil.\nThe case was petitioned to the United States Supreme Court. The principal issue before the Court was whether the Congressional Authorization for Use of Military Force post September 11 gave the president the powers to detain a United States citizen under military custody by classifying the detainee as an \"enemy combatant.\" Otherwise, the president would run afoul of the Non-Detention Act, which provides that \"No citizen shall be imprisoned or otherwise detained by the United States except pursuant to an Act of Congress.\nThe Court did not decide the issue. Instead, the Court held that the \"habeas corpus\" petition had been improperly filed. It ruled that because Padilla was being held in a brig (military prison) in South Carolina, the petition should have been filed in the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina, and it should have named the commander of the brig and the Secretary of Defense since the brig commander was Padilla's \"immediate custodian\". The Court reversed the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and remanded the case for dismissal without prejudice. In other words, it overruled the Court of Appeals decision and ordered the dismissal of the case, allowing Padilla to refile the petition. Thus, the principal issue of the case had not been resolved.\nPaul Clement, Principal Deputy Solicitor General at the time, gave oral argument for the United States (Rumsfeld); Jenny Martinez, a law professor and human rights lawyer, gave oral argument on behalf of Padilla and Newman.\nBackground.\nThe case was argued only two days before the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal was first shown to the general public in a \"The New Yorker\" article by Seymour M. Hersh (April 30), which showed digital photos taken by guards. The story was subsequently taken up by CBS and broadcast on nationwide television.\nThe timing of the two events is relevant for understanding political context. Before the publicizing of incriminating photographs of abused detainees in Iraq, the US was largely dominated by a political climate in which the charge of abuse was only anecdotal and was weighed lightly compared to appeals for national security. Still, the rendered decision came after news of the scandal broke, and the degree of the Abu Ghraib case influence is speculative.\nDuring the oral argument, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg asked some pointed questions of Clement, some of which directly treated the issue of abuse. An important dialogue features a comment by Deputy Solicitor General Paul Clement which denies the claim that the United States uses torture:"}
{"id": "756084", "revid": "9155723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756084", "title": "John Gardner (British writer)", "text": "John Edmund Gardner (20 November 1926\u00a0\u2013 3 August 2007) was an English writer of spy and thriller novels. He is best known for his James Bond continuation novels, but also wrote a series of Boysie Oakes books and three novels containing Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's fictional villain, Professor Moriarty. \nDuring the Second World War, Gardner joined the Home Guard at the age of 13, served in the Fleet Air Arm and subsequently joined the Royal Marines: he later described himself as \"the worst commando in the world\". After demobilisation, he followed his father into the Church of England, studying theology at St John's College, Cambridge, and being ordained as a priest in 1953. After losing his faith, he left the church in 1958 and took a job as a drama critic at the \"Stratford-upon-Avon Herald.\" \nGardner's literary career began in 1964 with the autobiographical \"Spin the Bottle\", which detailed his experience of alcoholism. In the same year, he published \"The Liquidator\", a parody of James Bond in which the cowardly Boysie Oakes is mistakenly recruited as a British spy. The book was made into a film, and followed by seven further Oakes novels and four short stories over the next eleven years. He subsequently wrote further novels centred on the characters of Derek Torry and Herbie Kruger, a Scotland Yard inspector and an intelligence agent respectively. From the mid 1970s onwards, he published three novels using the character of Professor Moriarty from the Sherlock Holmes series.\nBetween 1981 and 1996, Gardner wrote fourteen James Bond novels and the novelisations of two Bond films, at the invitation of Ian Fleming's former production company, Glidrose Publications. Although commercially popular, his Bond novels were not a critical success: \"The Guardian\" considered them \"dogged by silliness\". He ended his work on Bond following a diagnosis of oesophageal cancer in the 1990s, and took a break from writing altogether in 1997, following the unexpected death of his wife, Margaret Mercer. In 2000, he resumed his literary work, publishing \"Day of Absolution\" in 2001 and \"Bottled Spider\" in 2002\".\" The latter work introduced Detective Sergeant Suzie Mountford, named after Gardner's ex-fianc\u00e9e, Patricia Mountford, who resumed her engagement with him after reading the book. He published a further four Suzie Mountford novels before his death in 2007, from suspected heart failure.\nEarly life.\nJohn Edmund Gardner was born on 20 November 1926 in Seaton Delaval, a village in Northumberland. His parents were Cyril Gardner, a London-born Anglican priest who had been ordained in Wallsend in 1921, and Lena Henderson, a local girl; the couple were married in 1925. In 1933 the family moved to the market town of Wantage in what was then Berkshire, where Cyril took up the position of Chaplain at St Mary's, Wantage, and Gardner was educated at the local King Alfred's School.\nDuring the Second World War he joined the Home Guard, despite being only 13 at the time. Gardner subsequently served in the Royal Navy's Fleet Air Arm, before transferring to 42 Commando, Royal Marines, for service in the Middle and Far East. Gardner considered himself \"the worst commando in the world\" and, despite being \"a small-arms expert\u00a0... [who] also knew a lot about explosives\", he admitted that \"I bent an aeroplane I was learning to fly\".\nAfter the war he went up to St John's College, Cambridge, to study theology and was subsequently ordained as an Anglican priest in 1953. He realised that he had lost his faith and made an error in his career; he later admitted that during one sermon, \"I didn't believe a word I was saying\". He was released from the church in 1958 and took up a position as a drama critic with the \"Stratford-upon-Avon Herald\". It was whilst at the \"Herald\"\u2014aged 33\u2014that Gardner realised he was an alcoholic, drinking two bottles of gin a day. He overcame his addiction and produced his first book as part of his therapy: the autobiographical \"Spin the Bottle\", published in 1964. Critic and scholar John Sutherland says that of all the books Gardner published, it is \"the one that most deserves to survive.\"\nWriting career.\nIn 1964 Gardner began his novelist career with \"The Liquidator\", in which he created the character Boysie Oakes who inadvertently is mistaken to be a tough, pitiless man of action and is thereupon recruited into a British spy agency. In fact, Oakes was a devout coward who was terrified of violence, suffered from airsickness and was afraid of heights and Gardner admitted of him that, \"though I have denied it many times\u2014he was of course a complete piss-take of J. Bond\". The book appeared at the height of the fictional spy mania and, as a send-up of the whole business, was an immediate success. Reviewing the novel in \"The New York Times\", Anthony Boucher wrote, \"Mr. Gardner succeeds in having it both ways: He has written a clever parody which is also a genuinely satisfactory thriller.\" The book was made into a film of the same name by MGM and another seven light-hearted novels and four short stories about the cowardly Oakes appeared over the next eleven years.\nFollowing the success of his Oakes books, Gardner created new characters: Derek Torry\u2014a Scotland Yard inspector of Italian descent\u2014and Herbie Kruger, the latter of which appeared in a series of novels published simultaneously with his Bond works. In the mid-1970s Gardner also wrote the first of three novels using the character of Professor Moriarty from the Sherlock Holmes series, the last of which was published posthumously. The third of this series, titled simply \"Moriarty\", was delayed due to a dispute with the publisher, but was finally released shortly after his death. Erik Lee Preminger bought the film rights to the first of the trilogy\u2014\"The Return of Moriarty\"\u2014and wrote a script. Edgar Bronfman Jr., for Sagittarius Entertainment and Nat Cohen, for EMI Productions were to produce. Donald Sutherland was to portray Moriarty. Funding however fell through shortly before filming was to begin.\nIn 1979 Glidrose Publications (now Ian Fleming Publications) approached Gardner and asked him to revive Ian Fleming's James Bond series of novels. Between 1981 and 1996, Gardner wrote fourteen James Bond novels, and the novelizations of two Bond films. Gardner stated that he wanted \"to bring Mr Bond into the 1980s\", although he retained the ages of the characters as they were when Fleming had left them. Even though Gardner kept the ages the same, he made Bond grey at the temples as a nod to the passing of the years. With the influence of the American publishers, Putnam's, the Gardner novels showed an increase in the number of Americanisms used in the book, such as a waiter wearing \"pants\", rather than trousers, in \"The Man from Barbarossa\". James Harker, writing in \"The Guardian\", considered that the Gardner books were \"dogged by silliness\", giving examples of \"Scorpius\", where much of the action is set in Chippenham, and \"Win, Lose or Die\", where \"Bond gets chummy with an unconvincing Maggie Thatcher\". Whilst Gardner's Bond novels received a mixed reaction from the critics, they were popular and a number appeared in \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list, bringing the author commercial success.\nGardner had an ambivalent view on being the Bond author, once saying \"I'm very grateful to have been selected to keep Bond alive. But I'd much rather be remembered for my own work than I would for Bond\", while saying on another occasion that \"I remain proud that my contribution to the Bond saga played a great part in its development\". In the mid-1990s, after discovering he had oesophageal cancer, Gardner officially retired from writing Bond novels and Glidrose Publications quickly chose Raymond Benson to continue the literary stories of James Bond.\nHis break from writing lasted for five years, following the death of his wife, but after battling his illness he returned to print in 2000 with a new novel, \"Day of Absolution\". Gardner also began a series of books with a new character, Suzie Mountford, a 1930s police detective.\n\"The Globe and Mail\" crime critic Derrick Murdoch said, \"John Gardner is technically a highly competent thriller novelist who never seems to be quite at ease unless he is writing in the same vein as another writer. (He has worked John le Carr\u00e9 and Graham Greene this way, and it's what makes him so well qualified to continue the James Bond saga.)\"\nThe Crime Writers' Association short-listed \"The Liquidator\", \"The Dancing Dodo\", \"The Nostradamus Traitor\", and \"The Garden of Weapons\" for their annual Gold Dagger award.\nPersonal life.\nIn 1952 Gardner married Margaret Mercer and the couple had two children. Gardner also had another daughter, the result of a long affair with Susan Wright, a former personal assistant to Peter Sellers. In 1989, Gardner and his family moved to the US and it was in America that he was diagnosed with cancer; firstly of the prostate and then, six years later, of the oesophagus. The subsequent medical treatment in the US left him near bankrupt and he returned to the UK in November 1996. Shortly after his return, in February 1997, Margaret died unexpectedly.\nWhen Gardner returned to writing, his second book, \"Bottled Spider\", introduced a new character, Detective Sergeant Suzie Mountford. Gardner took the surname from Patricia Mountford, an ex-girlfriend to whom he had been engaged in 1949. When she read the book Mountford contacted Gardner through his publishers, and the two were subsequently engaged.\nGardner died on Friday 3 August 2007 from suspected heart failure."}
{"id": "756094", "revid": "12845131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756094", "title": "The Onedin Line", "text": "The Onedin Line is a BBC television drama series that ran from 1971 to 1980. The series was created by Cyril Abraham.\nThe series is set in Liverpool from 1860 to 1886 and covers the rise of a fictional shipping company, the Onedin Line, named after its owner, Captain James Onedin. Around this, it depicts the lives of his family, most notably his brother and partner Robert, a ship chandler, and his sister Elizabeth, giving insight into the lifestyle and customs at the time, not only at sea, but also ashore (mostly lower- and upper-middle-class). The series also illustrates some of the changes in business and shipping, such as from wooden to steel ships and from sailing ships to steamships. It shows the role that ships played in such matters as international politics, uprisings and the slave trade.\nOverview.\nThe Onedin Line is a classic BBC drama series set in 19th-century Liverpool, and narrating the changing fortunes of the ambitious Captain James Onedin and his family. A 55-minute pilot episode for the series aired as part of BBC One's Drama Playhouse strand on 7 December 1970, produced by Anthony Coburn.\nSeries 1 (1971).\nSeries 1 played from 15 October 1971 to 28 January 1972 (15 \u00d7 50 min episodes).\nThe series opens in 1860 Liverpool, as 28-year-old captain James Onedin establishes a new shipping company, marrying an older spinster, 30-year-old Anne, daughter of the owner of the schooner \"Charlotte Rhodes\", to do so. Main characters and story are introduced. Narrative unfolds around historically contemporary events, such as a Phylloxera outbreak affecting production of Portuguese wine, making a point of incorporating real events into the fictitious family drama.\nSeries 2 (1972).\nSeries 2 played from 17 September to 31 December 1972 (14 \u00d7 50 min episodes)\nSeries 3 (1973).\nSeries 3 played from 21 October 1973 to 27 January 1974 (13 \u00d7 50 min episodes)\nSeries 4 (1976).\nSeries 4 played from 25 April to 27 June 1976 (10 \u00d7 50 min episodes)\nSeries 5 (1977).\nSeries 5 played from 26 June to 28 August 1977 (10 \u00d7 50 min episodes)\nSeries 6 (1978).\nSeries 6 played from 18 July to 17 September 1978 (10 \u00d7 50 min episodes)\nSeries 7 (1979).\nSeries 7 played from 22 July to 23 September 1979 (10 \u00d7 50 min episodes)\nSeries 8 (1980).\nSeries 8 played from 31 August to 26 October 1980 (9 \u00d7 50 min episodes)\nCharacters.\nMain.\nJames Onedin (Peter Gilmore), the younger son of Samuel Onedin, a miserly ship chandler, who left his shop and money to his elder son Robert, and a few words of advice to James. He was a 28 year old penniless sea captain with aspirations to greater things. To become a ship-owner, he marries Anne Webster, who is over 30, some years his senior. She is the spinster daughter of Captain Joshua Webster (James Hayter), owner of the topsail schooner \"Charlotte Rhodes\". At first, it is purely a business transaction on Onedin's part and a pragmatic solution to penniless spinsterhood on Anne's part; but a warmer relationship gradually develops.\nOn Anne's death in childbirth, 11+ years later (at the end of the second series), James has come to love her deeply. Her portrait continues to hang prominently in his home for many years.\nSeveral years later, James considers two possible replacement wives: wealthy and emancipated widow Caroline Maudsley, and the young heiress Leonora Biddulph (Kate Nelligan), ultimately being rejected by both.\nAfter a slow-burning courtship, he eventually marries his daughter's governess, Letty Gaunt (Jill Gascoine). Tragedy strikes in the first year of the marriage when she, unfortunately in James's view, becomes pregnant. The memories of Anne's death have always remained in his thoughts. In due course, Letty also dies, of diphtheria.\nBy the final series, James is married to a third wife, the exotic Margarita Juarez, and is, by then, a grandfather. He is framed for theft and imprisoned. He is freed when Elizabeth, Baines, and Samuel discover evidence to clear his name. On his release, he takes to the sea again with Captain Baines, on business to South America, stabilising his life for the next 20 years, only to find Margarita as a stowaway. On the voyage home, she reveals that she is pregnant and unable, as was Baines as a cargo captain, to deliver the baby, so the cook is left to do the job. A baby son is delivered, with both mother and son well. James names the boy William, after Captain Baines. By the end of the series, James is in his mid-60s, or older.\nJames is a charismatic but morally flexible man, whose eye is always on how to make a profit from any given situation. He seems to consider himself amusing. His actions frequently lead to breaks with his nearest family and associates.\nAnne Onedin (n\u00e9e Webster) (Anne Stallybrass), is the spinster daughter of Captain Joshua Webster. In the mid-1850s (before the start of the series) she had been expecting to marry her sweetheart Michael Adams. However, he never returned from his first trip to sea on the \"Star of Morn\". Anne is now in her early 30s and has nothing to look forward to after her father's death than living on the charity of friends or the workhouse. Having rejected James's offer to form a business partnership with her father, Captain Webster, she proposes and enters into marriage with James, in full recognition that it was a business transaction. She accompanies James to Portugal on his first trip in the \"Charlotte Rhodes\", on their wedding day. She will subsequently travel with James on many of his trips, including to Australia, the Confederate States of America, East Africa and China.\nJames's feelings of jealousy become piqued when he returns with his second ship, the clipper \"Pampero\", to find that Anne's former suitor, Michael Adams, has returned, having previously jumped ship after mistakenly believing he was being made the scapegoat for the murder of the mate of the \"Star of Morn\". Adams signs on to the next voyage of the \"Pampero\" with James and Anne, where her conscience is affected when James covers up a death which occurred at the hands of Adams.\nAnne is the conscience of James and, when she cannot take his ruthless business behaviour any longer, leaves him to live hand-to-mouth in the Liverpool slums, seriously affecting her health. They reunite after a yellow fever outbreak in Liverpool.\nAfter James spends the money promised for their new house to buy another ship, the \"Maria da Gloria\", Anne has a miscarriage, brought on by carrying coal from the cellar to her kitchen. This event leads him to sell some shares in the Onedin Line to Lord and Lady Lazenby to finance a fashionable new house for Anne. As Captain Webster opines, \"out of guilt\".\nOn her reconciliation with James, she accompanies him to China in his bid to regain control of the Onedin Line. During the voyage she ignores the doctor's warning not to get pregnant, knowing how much James wants a son and heir, and, after a difficult voyage back from China, she dies giving birth to a daughter, Charlotte, less than 12 months after her previous miscarriage.\nWilliam Baines (Howard Lang), first mate to James. Taught by Anne to read and write, he becomes a captain and serves on all of Onedin's ships. Appalled at Onedin's business dealings and treatment of ships' crews, even though he is fully prepared to use his own fists to maintain discipline, he leaves to work for a rival shipping line for a short time, but returns to Onedin.\nAnother falling-out leads Baines to buy his own ship, but a fire breaks out, destroying the ship and killing Tom, a boy he and James took on first as a cabin boy and then as an indentured lad. Blaming James, he leaves again, and is tricked into the plot to frame James for theft. He then helps to clear James' name. On their last voyage together, James' wife Margarita has a baby son, who is named in Baines's honour.\nLady Fogarty, Elizabeth Fogarty (n\u00e9e Onedin, formerly Frazer) (Jessica Benton), James's volatile sister, works in their father's shop. She is informally engaged to marry seafarer Daniel Fogarty (Michael Billington). However, she does not fancy being a sea captain's wife, and wants better things. Her head is turned by the attentions of the wealthy Albert Frazer (Philip Bond), developer of steamship technology and heir to the Frazer shipyards, a connection James soon turns to his own advantage. After a heated moment of passion aboard the \"Charlotte Rhodes\" with Daniel Fogarty, she falls pregnant. Against the advice of her family, she elopes with Albert. Elizabeth gives birth to a son, William Frazer, who she initially tried to raise as Albert's son. William's true parentage is accidentally revealed by James's brother, Robert, at a party for the child's first birthday. Albert agrees to raise William as his own.\nThe marriage is unhappy. Albert takes up with a music hall singer, Carrie Harris. Shortly before the death of Anne, the Frazers start divorce proceedings, but later reconcile. Albert takes frequent trips away on business, finally settling in South America, where he dies several years later. Elizabeth returns to the now-married Captain Fogarty. By the end of Series 3, Elizabeth is intending to run off with him to Australia, until she is informed that their plans will be financed by money that is rightfully her husband's. Having sold her house, she is left with no option but to move in with her father-in-law.\nAlbert's father, Jack Frazer (John Phillips) dies, leaving his shipyards and shipping line to Elizabeth for William to inherit on coming of age, so the Frazer name will live on, having discovered that William is the son of Daniel Fogarty. Elizabeth is surprisingly effective at running both the Frazer Line and the Frazer shipbuilding yards. She subsequently has a relationship with her employee, Matt Harvey. \n16 years after he left, Daniel Fogarty returns from Australia, where he has amassed a fortune, and marries Elizabeth, whom he still loves, to help and advise his son, who retains the name Frazer.\nElizabeth and Daniel became estranged, as their business interests differ and he rises in political circles to become ambassador to Turkey. She refuses to go with him, and remains to run Frazer's. As time goes by, a reconciliation between Elizabeth and Daniel is in the offing as they exchange letters and Daniel resigns as ambassador. On his return to Liverpool, his ship is in a collision and he is declared missing.\nRobert Onedin (Brian Rawlinson in Series 1\u20132 and 4\u20136, James Garbutt in Series 3), James's older brother, takes after their father and counts coppers in the family ship chandlery, though he later expands it into a profitable department store, after visiting the United States to see new methods of selling. He and his wife Sarah have one son, Samuel, who at first cares more for the sea and ships than for shopkeeping. Robert is elected as a member of Parliament; he and Sarah move to a smart new residence, but his life abruptly comes to an end when he chokes on a bone at a family dinner.\nSarah Onedin (Mary Webster), wife of Robert, is always looking to improve her station in life as her husband's status rises. She is upset at how her husband's brother, James, borrows money from him to further his own ambitions. When her husband dies, she and her son, Samuel, run the business. She is shocked when her son marries Charlotte after William gets her pregnant. Sarah makes attempts to contact Robert through a medium, despite her son Samuel's objections. She almost marries the fortune-hunting Captain Dampier. She is last heard of as having undertaken a tour of the world.\nLetty Onedin (n\u00e9e Gaunt) (Jill Gascoine) is employed as governess to James's daughter Charlotte. She reconciles the two and grows to love James, while his feelings are initially repressed by memories of his first wife, Anne. Letty starts her own business, employing, at a fair wage, women whose men are out of work. James, recognizing that she is a force in her own right, softens; remembering Anne's death, they are married with his proviso that they have no children. Letty falls pregnant, which she hides from James, owing to his loss of Anne in childbirth, as did Charlotte by her cousin William, and James returns from a voyage to discover that, like Anne before, she is having a difficult childbirth. The baby, James's male heir, dies. Charlotte had a baby boy, Robert. Letty throws herself into work and builds a house for foundlings of prostitutes and destitute women, to the disbelief of prominent townsfolk. After some time, diphtheria breaks out amongst the children at the home; Letty nurses the children and dies from the disease.\nMargarita Onedin (n\u00e9e Suarez) is the daughter of a South American politician who is killed in a revolution. James rescues her after her escape from the fighting, and quickly marries her. In the final episode of the series, during a voyage \"'round the Horn\", she gives birth to James's son, Will Onedin, named after Captain Baines.\nThe Cousins.\nWhen the series begins, Robert and Sarah's son, Samuel, has already been born. Elizabeth and Daniel's son, William, is conceived aboard the Charlotte Rhodes some months later, therefore at least a year younger than Samuel. James and Anne's daughter, Charlotte, is born at the end of Series 2. Based on the travels (including voyages to Australia, around the Horn to the American West Coast, to The Confederate States of America, some time spent recouping James' fortune by trading around the world, including to East Africa and their final race back from China against Daniel Fogarty, with tea clipper fleet) and events (a miscarriage, some time spent living separately, the setting up of Onedin Warehouses, the acquiring and loss of the Pampero and 4 different houses) that happened during James and Anne's marriage, she must be at least several years younger than Samuel and William. However, from somewhere during Series 4 and 5, the cousins have retroactively all born within months of each other and Charlotte as a young child moved between Elizabeth Fraser and Sarah Onedin' home, and her aunt Mary's homes.\nCharlotte Onedin (Laura Hartong), her mother Anne died when she was born and as a young child felt rejected by her father James as the cause of the death of her mother. Reconciled with her father by Letty her governess who married her father. She fell in love with her cousin William Frazer, but he abandoned her when she became pregnant by him. Instead, she married her other cousin, Samuel Onedin, who initially loved her. She had two children, Robert (by William) and Anne (by Samuel). Following William's death, Charlotte and the now successful Samuel were increasingly unhappy and Charlotte ran off with Seth Burgess (Michael Walker), a sea captain who owed money and his ship to James. Her father pursued her and she realized that her sea captain had no feelings for her when Burgess traded the ship for her. She returned to England with her father suffering a serious head injury when hit by a falling block and tackle. Samuel divorced Charlotte, citing her infidelity with Seth Burgess and taking custody of Robert and Anne. Charlotte, after staying with her aunt, left to take up a career as an actress and music hall singer \"The Lancashire Nightingale\" much to the horror of her father; although alleviated by the money she was earning. When her father was in prison, she returned home to help run the business and had secret meetings with Samuel to discuss their children.\nWilliam Frazer (Marc Harrison), the result of a relationship between Elizabeth and Daniel Fogarty. Elizabeth married Albert Frazer before he was born and Albert brought him up as his own son. As a young man, he came under the influence of Josiah Beaumont (Warren Clarke), an ambitious banker. Daniel Fogarty returned to marry Elizabeth and together they thwarted the plans of Beaumont. Denied access to his son by a bitter Samuel and Charlotte. Shortly afterwards, William was killed by a runaway horse and wagon.\nSamuel Onedin (Christopher Douglas), son of Robert and Sarah and heir to his father's department store. As a youngster, he grew up with William and Charlotte and was more interested in the sea and ships. He became a stowaway on one of James's ships. On his father's death, he began to run the department store with his mother. Always fond of Charlotte, he married her when she became pregnant with William's baby. Charlotte never reciprocated his feelings, leading to an acrimonious parting after she went off with a sea captain leaving her two children. After a trip to the United States, he returned with a new bride, Caroline. An heiress to a fortune, she immediately put Charlotte in her place by taking full control of the children's upbringing. When Caroline's ambitions for Samuel's election as an MP in Daniel Fogarty's seat failed, she grew colder. Samuel secretly saw Charlotte.\nRecurring.\nCaptain Joshua Webster (James Hayter), the father of Anne Onedin and the original owner of the \"Charlotte Rhodes\". When the series begins he is a retired Royal Navy Captain on a small pension. He has been unable to maintain the \"Charlotte Rhodes\" in a seaworthy condition, and now spends most of his pension on rum.\nInitially angry at Anne's decision to marry James, but more so at the loss of his ship, he comes to accept the situation, though he is the first to point out James' flaws. After his daughter's death he fell under the oversight of Robert and Sarah, much to their irritation. On several occasions James sent him off to conduct business, usually on ships captained by Captain Baines. The relationship between the two is usually one of comical frustration. Captain Webster is not heard of again after Series 3, so it is assumed that he died some time during the mid/late 1870s.\nThomas Callon (Edward Chapman), the owner of the Callon Line. When the series starts he was the employer of James. After James sets up the Onedin Line, in competition with the Callon Line, and subsequently takes one of Callon's most profitable contracts (to carry Se\u00f1or Braganza's Portuguese wine), the two become implacable enemies. Throughout the first series Callon, aided by his son Edmund (James Warwick), attempted to ruin both James and Robert Onedin, he also promoted and relied on Daniel Fogarty. Callon finally became the majority shareholder and Chairman of the Onedin Steamship Line.\nAt the start of Series 2 both Callon and his son are killed in a fire at the Callon warehouse. A fire which nearly kills Albert Frazer.\nEmma Callon (Jane Seymour) was the niece of Thomas Callon, and after his death she inherited the Callon Line. She has little interest in running the company herself, so she employs Daniel Fogarty as General Manager, and they become close. After he seduced her, they married, their honeymoon being a race against James to China and back to gain the controlling balance of Onedin Line shares.\nEmma quickly grew to despise her husband and his mismanagement led her to transfer a 70% stake of the Callon Line to Jack Frazer to settle its debts and to guarantee her an income from her remaining 30% of the newly renamed Frazer Line. Daniel then decided to abandon her and run off with Elizabeth. When he returned from Australia, 16 years later, Emma was living in seclusion with consumption, dying shortly afterwards (in the early 1890s) and leaving her share of the Frazer Line to Daniel.\nThe \"Charlotte Rhodes\".\nIn the TV series James Onedin's first ship, the \"Charlotte Rhodes\", was portrayed by a schooner of the same name, built in 1904 in Fjellebroens Shipyard, Denmark, by F. Hoffman. She appeared in the series from 1971 until 1976. Later the ship became unseaworthy so she was dropped from the series. While some sources suggest she was replaced by another schooner called \"Kathleen and May\", there is nothing in that ship's history to support this. The original \"Charlotte Rhodes\" was a victim of arson in October 1979 in the Netherlands before the end of the series. The first link between the \"Kathleen &amp; May\" and the \"Charlotte Rhodes\" was not made until 2005.\nFictional history.\nThe topsail schooner \"Charlotte Rhodes\" was originally owned by Captain Joshua Webster. His spinster daughter Anne was married by James Onedin, in order to become a ship-owner. A shrewd and often ruthless operator, James soon built up a fleet, assisted by the loyal Mr (later Captain) Baines (Howard Lang). His other sailing ships included the \"Pampero\", the \"Medusa\", the \"S\u00f8ren Larsen\", the ex-Portuguese slaver \"Maria di Gloria\", the \"Neptune\", the \"Falcon\", the \"Trident\", the \"Osprey\", the \"Orphia\", the \"Oberon\", the \"Orpheus\", the \"Esther Lohse\", the \"Osiris\", the steamship \"Shearwater\", the \"Christian Radich\", the \"Thorsoe\", the steamer \"Black Pearl\", the \"Jenny Peak\" renamed the \"Letty Gaunt\", the \"Ondine\", the \"Orlando\", the \"Star of Bethlehem\", the \"Teawynd\" and the \"Lady Lazenby\". He also initiated the building of a steamship, the \"Anne Onedin\" (until the death of his wife, to be named the \"Golden Nugget\", and briefly named the \"Scotch Lass\" after her dubious acquisition by Mr Frazer for the shell company, The Wirral Steam Navigation Company).\nProduction.\nConception.\nSeries creator Cyril Abraham had originally envisaged \"The Onedin Line\" as being about a modern shipping company with its boardroom battles and seagoing adventures, but then he discovered that almost all such companies were run by boards of anonymous executives. However, he noticed that most of these companies had their origins in the 19th century, mostly started by one shrewd and far-sighted individual who, through his own business acumen, built up a shipping line from nothing. Abraham stated that James Onedin was not based on one individual but was rather an amalgamation of several characters. Suggested real-life inspirations include Victorian era shipping line owner James Baines &amp; Co. of Liverpool (a leading character in the series was named 'Captain Baines'), Sir Samuel Cunard and various members of the Allan Line family.\nAn article in \"Woman\" magazine published in July 1973 featured an interview with Cyril Abraham in which he recalled how he came up with the very unusual family name Onedin.\nHe wanted something unique. He had decided to call the leading male character James but still had not found a surname when the BBC agreed to film the story. Then some inspiration - he said:\nThe programme was recorded in Dartmouth, Devon, as well as certain scenes in Exeter, Falmouth and Gloucester (many of the dock scenes). The last series was filmed in Pembroke Dock, Wales, where the 18th-century naval dockyard and surrounding streets became Liverpool, and various coastal locations in the Pembrokeshire area substituted for Turkey and Portugal.\nDue to its popularity in Sweden, the series inspired the name for a real-life shipping line in Stockholm, the \u00c5nedin-Linjen, founded in 1973, which until recently operated cruises in the Baltic.\nMusic.\nThe music behind the opening credits of the series is an excerpt from the Adagio of Spartacus and Phrygia from the ballet \"Spartacus\" by Aram Khachaturian. Other background music includes excerpts from Ralph Vaughan Williams's Symphony No. 2 'London', Symphony No. 5 and Fantasia on a Theme of Thomas Tallis, Manuel de Falla's The Three-Cornered Hat, Gustav Holst's Fugal Overture, Gustav Mahler's Symphony No. 2 and Dmitri Shostakovich's Symphony No. 1 and Jean Sibelius's Tapiola, symphonic poem for orchestra.\nTraditional music, including folk songs and sea shanties in particular, are heard in abundance throughout the series, including such songs as \"The Maid of Amsterdam\", \"Ruben Ranzo\", \"South Australia\", \"Maggie May\", \"The Sailor's Hornpipe\", \"Botany Bay\", \"Drink to Me Only with Thine Eyes\", \"A Hundred Years Ago\", \"Blow the Man Down\", and \"On Ilkla Moor Baht 'at\".\nVessels.\nAmong the historic ships and boats featured in the series was the steam pinnace \"Hero\", then owned and lent by John Player &amp; Sons, and the following tall ships:\nCast.\nThe series made the careers of Peter Gilmore, who played \"James\", Anne Stallybrass, who played \"Anne\", and Howard Lang, who played \"Captain William Baines\", as well as being an important break for Jill Gascoine (\"Letty Gaunt\"), Warren Clarke (\"Josiah Beaumont\"), Kate Nelligan (\"Leonora Biddulph\") and Jane Seymour (\"Emma Callon\"). Peter Gilmore and Anne Stallybass got married in 1987 and remained together until his death in 2013.\nOther regular cast members included Jessica Benton (\"Elizabeth Frazer\"), Brian Rawlinson and James Garbutt (\"Robert Onedin\"), Mary Webster, (\"Sarah Onedin\"), Michael Billington / Tom Adams (\"Daniel Fogarty\").\nOther featured cast members included Philip Bond (\"Albert Frazer\"), Edward Chapman (\"Thomas Callon\"), James Warwick (\"Edmund Callon\"), John Phillips (\"Jack Frazer\"), Caroline Harris (\"Caroline Maudslay\"), James Hayter (\"Captain Joshua Webster\"), Ken Hutchison (\"Matt Harvey\"), Laura Hartong (\"Charlotte Onedin\"), Marc Harrison (\"William Frazer\"), Christopher Douglas (\"Samuel Onedin\"), Roberta Iger (\"Margarita Onedin\"), Jenny Twigge (\"Caroline Onedin\"), Cyril Shaps (\"Braganza\"), Hilda Braid (\"Miss Simmonds\"), David Garfield (\"Samuel Plimsoll\"), Robert James (\"Rowland Biddulph\"), Sylvia Coleridge (\"Mrs Salt\"), Sonia Dresdel (\"Lady Lazenby\"), Nicolette Roeg (\"Ada Gamble\"), John Rapley (\"Dunwoody\"), Stephanie Bidmead (\"Mrs Darling\"), John Sharp (\"Uncle Percy Spendilow\"), Heather Canning (\"Mrs Arkwright\"), Keith Jayne (\"Tom Arnold\"), Frederick Jaeger (\"Max van der Rheede\"), Edward Judd (\"Manuel Ortega\"), Elizabeth Chambers (\"Miss Gladstone\"), Jack Watson (\"Dr Darling\"), Paul Lavers (\"Francis Polter/David Teal\") and Maurice Colbourne (\"Viscount Marston\").\nVictoria Thomas is a child actress who played \"Charlotte Onedin\" in \"Month of the Albatross\", \"A Clear Conscience\" and \"Undercurrent\".\nNovels.\nThere are six novels based on the series.\nThe first five are all by the series creator, Cyril Abraham:\nThe books are not straightforward novelisations of the television episodes, since the author introduced additional material and also changed a number of details, though dialogue from the series that Abraham had penned himself is utilised. In print, Elizabeth's child is conceived in a private room above a restaurant, not on the \"Charlotte Rhodes\"; George Callon lasted considerably longer and died in bed after suffering a stroke, not in a warehouse fire; Emma was Callon's daughter, not his niece;\nCaptain Webster remarried, his new partner being the irrepressible old crone Widow Malloy, an entertaining character with a repertoire of coarse remarks; Albert did not abscond to Patagonia but died aboard ship following his involvement in retrieving a kidnapped Elizabeth from Daniel Fogarty; Caroline Maudslay and Matt Harvey were omitted altogether (though Matt did appear in two short stories - see below); Jack Frazer's life was extended and he lived to see both Emma's death and Daniel's return from Australia, though his television discovery that William was not his grandson never took place.\nThe sixth novel, \"The Turning Tide\" (1980) , was written by Bruce Stewart. This deviated even more from the television series and probably from Cyril Abraham's intentions as well. Letty was depicted as a jealous harpy aiming unpleasant remarks at Charlotte; Elizabeth and Daniel ended up emigrating to Australia permanently and James became the owner of the Frazer Line.\nA series of Onedin short stories by Cyril Abraham, set between Series Two and Series Three, appeared in \"Woman\" magazine in 1973: \"For The Love Of A Lady\"; \"Amelia\"; \"The Woman from the Streets\"; \"The Mistress and the Wife\" and \"The Choice\". The plots involved: two seamen who were rivals for the same woman; Robert's encounter with the attractive Amelia; an appearance by Sarah's destitute sister Constance; a social gathering that revolves around the naming of the first Onedin steamship; and the first appearance in James' life of Leonora Biddulph.\nA later tale by Abraham, \"For Love of the Onedins\", appeared in a short-lived magazine called \"tvlife\". This story, covering Leonora's wedding, occurs between Series Three and Series Four and features Matt Harvey, who was Elizabeth's love interest during the fourth series. There is a slanging match between Elizabeth and Sarah, who each disparage the circumstances of the other's wedding day until Leonora intervenes to restore peace.\nA final story was published in the \"Daily Mirror\", entitled \"Cat and Mouse\". It was set during Series Four and Matt Harvey made his second appearance in print.\nCyril Abraham had planned to write a whole series of novels about the Onedin Line, but he died in 1979 after completing the fifth novel, \"The White Ships\". The story was eventually to have seen James and Elizabeth as two wizened old autocrats, both determined not to relinquish their hold on the shipping business. James would have died as a very old man, leaving the family divided over control of the company. Cyril Abraham had intended the Onedin saga to continue right up to the 1970s.\nAdditional books.\nIn June 1977, \"The World of The Onedin Line\" by Alison McLeay was published. The hardback book () was a historical and factual look at the world and places in which \"The Onedin Line\" was set.\nPeter Graham Scott's autobiography \"British Television: An Insider's Story\" (McFarland &amp; Company, 2000) includes a full (25-page) chapter on the setting-up of the series and his time as producer (and occasional director/writer) on the first 42 episodes, along with six behind-the-scenes black-and-white photos.\nBroadcasts.\nThe pilot was produced by Anthony Coburn and was broadcast as a one-off BBC Drama Playhouse production on 7 December 1970. It was announced in September 2010 that a copy of the pilot episode was discovered in the American Library of Congress, however this report turned out to be inaccurate and it remains lost. The story and the cast were basically the same as the resulting series with the exception of Sheila Allen playing Anne Webster/Onedin; Anne Stallybrass took over the part for the series. The series was originally aired in the United Kingdom by the BBC, from 15 October 1971 to 26 October 1980. In the Netherlands, broadcasts started in 1972.\nIn the mid 1980s, the BBC repeated the series in a daytime slot. From 1992 UK Gold repeated the series in full, ending repeats in 1998, before moving to sister channel UK Gold Classics in October 1998 when that channel was launched, although it was only available on Sky Digital on weekends between 6pm-2am and the showing only lasted around six months.\nIn 2000 it reappeared on UK Drama and has been repeated in full on that channel in more recent years. In 2007 MAX restarted a broadcast of the first series, with one episode every weekday (Monday through Friday), starting 10 July 2007. The UK digital channel Yesterday began running the whole series from 27 July 2010. As with many of the vintage series run by the channel, the episodes are slightly cut, from the c.50m length standard in the 1970s to the c.46m standard on Yesterday. As of 6 January 2018, the UKTV channel Drama began repeating the series from the first episode at the rate of four episodes a week. Talking Pictures TV started a weekly repeat on 4 September 2022.\nPopularity in communist Romania.\nAmong other TV shows from the West like \"Poldark\" and \"Dallas\", \"The Onedin Line\" was a huge success in communist Romania in the late seventies and early eighties, when it was broadcast by Romanian TV. Eventually it was discontinued (together with other popular television shows) in favour of the omnipresent state propaganda designed to show off the successes of dictator Nicolae Ceau\u0219escu. Consequently, to flee this propaganda the population tuned into foreign stations (if possible) to continue watching their favourite shows but also to receive uncensored news about events like the fall of the Berlin Wall. This can be considered as a small contribution to the uprising which brought down the Ceau\u0219escu regime.\nHome media.\nHome video versions of the series have been made available in various versions over the years. For series one, edited versions were made available by BBC Video on VHS in the 1990s. These edited masters saw a re-release in the UK on DVD from Universal Playback in 2003. The Australian (from ABC) and Dutch (from Memphis Belle) DVD versions of series one also derive from these edited versions. In North America, Canadian company BFS Video released the first four episodes uncut on VHS in 2001, with these and the next four episodes arriving on DVD in two double-disc sets two years later.\nIt would not be until 2007 that all 15 episodes of the first series became available uncut on DVD, in the UK from 2 entertain in a four-disc set.\nSeries two follows a similar pattern, with edited versions arriving on VHS and DVD in the UK from the same companies listed above. The version from the Netherlands is sourced from the same masters. The Australian version, however, has all 14 episodes uncut on four discs, and was released in 2008. All 14 episodes on four discs were released uncut in the UK in 2010.\nSeries three to eight are available on DVD from Memphis Belle in the Netherlands, and all are uncut. All series are also available in Germany.\nSeries three and four are available uncut in the UK and Australia. Series five, six, seven and eight are yet to be released in the UK, but all eight series have been released in Germany under the title \"Die Onedin Linie: Die Komplette Serie\", where English language audio is available in the menu, but the credits on the episodes are in German, as are all the extras and information cards.\nAll current DVD editions are uncut, apart from the Australian series one and the Dutch series one and two. The earlier edited UK versions of the first two series are still available from a number of sites."}
{"id": "756097", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756097", "title": "Ras Al Khaima", "text": ""}
{"id": "756099", "revid": "38004052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756099", "title": "Three Rivers District", "text": "Three Rivers is a local government district in south-west Hertfordshire, England. Its council is based in Rickmansworth. The district borders Hertsmere, Watford, St Albans, Dacorum, Buckinghamshire, and the London boroughs of Hillingdon and Harrow.\nHistory.\nThree Rivers District was created on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, covering the whole area of two former districts and most of a third, which were all abolished at the same time:\nThe new district was named \"Three Rivers\", referencing the rivers Chess, Colne, and Gade which flow through the district and have their confluence in Rickmansworth, the largest town in the district.\nGovernance.\nHertfordshire has a two-tier structure of local government, with the ten district councils (including Three Rivers District Council) providing district-level services, and Hertfordshire County Council providing county-level services. In some areas there is an additional third tier of civil parishes.\nResponsibilities.\nThree Rivers District Council carries out a variety of district council functions including:\nPolitical control.\nThe council has been under no overall control since a by-election in August 2024, having previously been under Liberal Democrat majority control since 2018. The leaders of the council have been Liberal Democrats (or their predecessors, the SDP\u2013Liberal Alliance) since 1986, including through some periods of minority administrations.\nThe first election to Three Rivers District Council was held in 1973, initially acting as a shadow authority alongside the outgoing authorities until the new arrangements took effect on 1 April 1974. Political control since 1974 has been as follows:\nLeadership.\nThe leaders of the council since 1986 have been:\nComposition.\nFollowing the 2024 election and by-elections and changes of allegiance up to March 2025, the composition of the council was:\nThe next election is due in May 2026.\nPremises.\nThe council's main offices are at Three Rivers House on Northway in the centre of Rickmansworth, which was purpose-built for the council in 1991. The site had been part of the grounds of Basing House, which had bought by the old Rickmansworth Urban District Council in 1930 to serve as its headquarters.\nElections.\nSince the last boundary changes in 2014 the council has comprised 39 councillors representing 13 wards, each of which elects three councillors. Elections are held three years out of every four, electing one councillor from each ward each time. Elections to Hertfordshire County Council are held in the fourth year of the cycle when there are no district council elections.\nWards.\nThe wards of the district are:\nWider politics.\nCounty council.\nFor elections to Hertfordshire County Council, the district is divided into six divisions, three of which are held by the Conservatives, and three by the Liberal Democrats:\nParliament.\nFor parliamentary elections, the entire district has been part of the South West Hertfordshire constituency since the 2024 general election. The constituency is not quite coterminous with the district, however, as it also contains the ward of Kings Langley from the Dacorum district. The current MP is Gagan Mohindra of the Conservative Party.\nRail.\nTrain services are provided by Chiltern Railways and the Metropolitan line of the London Underground.\nLondon Underground stations:\nChiltern Railways stations:\nA special fare structure exists as the stations are outside the Greater London boundary.\nLondon Overground stations:\nWest Coast Main Line stations:\nCivil parishes.\nThree Rivers is partially parished. There are six civil parishes in the district:\nThere are also two unparished areas in the district, both comprising parts of the former Rickmansworth Urban District which have not subsequently been added to a parish: one larger area including Maple Cross and Mill End, Rickmansworth; and a smaller area including part of Loudwater."}
{"id": "756102", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756102", "title": "Helvetia Oregon", "text": ""}
{"id": "756103", "revid": "16052859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756103", "title": "Ras Al Khaimah International Airport", "text": "Ras Al Khaimah International Airport () is an international airport located in Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab Emirates. The airport has two passenger terminal buildings as well as cargo, aircraft maintenance, and aviation training facilities.\nHistory.\nIn 1976, the airport was inaugurated by RAK ruler, Sheikh Saqr bin Mohammad Al Qasimi. In 2007, RAK Airways started operating as the national airline with a hub at the airport. It suspended regular operations in 2008 due to the global economic crisis. It relaunched in 2010 with new branding and management, but suspended operations permanently in 2013.\nIn 2014, Air Arabia started its commercial flights to different destinations including Pakistan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Bangladesh following the suspension of RAK Airways. Ras Al Khaimah was designated as a hub for Air Arabia for a period of ten years, extendable thereafter.\nGrowing at 25% year-on-year in 2013 (albeit from a low base), the airport was refocused with efforts to attract cargo business, in particular from establishments under the Ras Al Khaimah Free Trade Zone.\nAirlines and destinations.\nThe following airlines operate regular scheduled and charter flights at Ras Al Khaimah Airport:\nIn popular culture.\nIn 2015, Ras Al Khaimah Airport served as the set for the filming of the Hindi film \"Airlift\" starring Akshay Kumar."}
{"id": "756107", "revid": "50545082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756107", "title": "Geno Auriemma", "text": "Luigi \"Geno\" Auriemma (born March 23, 1954) is an American basketball coach who is the head coach of the University of Connecticut Huskies women's basketball team. He holds the NCAA basketball records for wins and winning percentage with a minimum of 10 seasons. Auriemma also has the most NCAA Division I basketball championships at 12.\nServing as UConn's head coach since 1985, Auriemma built the team into one of the top women's college basketball programs. In addition to the record 12 championships, he has led UConn to 19 undefeated conference seasons (including eight consecutive) and six perfect seasons. He has also won eight national Naismith College Coach of the Year awards.\nOutside of college basketball, Auriemma was the head coach of the United States women's national team from 2009 through 2016, winning the 2010 and 2014 World Championships, and gold medals at the 2012 and 2016 Summer Olympics. He was inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame and the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame in 2006.\nEarly life and education.\nAuriemma emigrated with his family from Montella in Southern Italy to Norristown, Pennsylvania, when he was seven years old, and he spent the rest of his childhood there. Auriemma grew up poor, with his parents working low wage factory jobs. Auriemma had to teach himself English after coming to the United States. When he was growing up, his favorite team was the 1970s New York Knicks, then coached by Red Holzman.\nAuriemma attended Montgomery County Community College before graduating from West Chester University in 1977. \nCareer.\nAuriemma was hired as an assistant coach at Saint Joseph's University, where he worked in 1978 and 1979. Prior to coaching at Saint Joseph's University he began his career coaching women's basketball at Bishop McDevitt High School in Wyncote, Pennsylvania. He then took a two-year absence from college basketball, serving as an assistant coach at his former high school, Bishop Kenrick, before assuming an assistant coaching position with the University of Virginia Cavaliers women's team in 1981. Auriemma became a naturalized United States citizen in 1994 at the age of 40, noting in his autobiography that he finally decided to naturalize when his University of Connecticut team was slated to tour Italy that summer and he was concerned about potential problems, as he had never done any required national service in his birth country.\nFor many years, Auriemma and his wife, Kathy, maintained a home in Avalon, New Jersey, to be near their respective parents in the Philadelphia area.\nUniversity of Connecticut.\nPrior to Auriemma's arrival in 1985, the Huskies women's basketball team had posted only one winning season in its history. The decision to hire Auriemma was part of the university's commitment to better fund women's sports. Auriemma's was the final interview scheduled by the search staff. Most of the other candidates were highly qualified, and most were female. One of those included in the interview process was Chris Dailey, who became Auriemma's assistant and is currently the associate head coach. Dailey was identified as the candidate most likely to receive an offer if Auriemma turned down the position.\nConnecticut quickly rose to prominence after Auriemma was hired in August 1985. After finishing 12\u201315 in Auriemma's first season (his only losing season), the Huskies notched their first-ever 20-win season, first conference title and first NCAA Tournament appearance. Connecticut has finished above .500 for 33 consecutive seasons, including six undefeated seasons (1994\u201395, 2001\u201302, 2008\u201309, 2009\u201310, 2013\u201314, and 2015\u201316) and three NCAA record streaks of 111, 90 and 70 consecutive wins. On December 21, 2010, Auriemma led UConn to its 89th consecutive victory, one more than the all-time NCAA men's wins record of 88 held by UCLA; the streak ended at 90 wins. The Huskies subsequently broke their own record with an 111-game winning streak that began in 2014 and ended in 2017. They have also appeared in every NCAA Tournament since 1989\u2013as of the end of the 2023\u201324 season, the third-longest active consecutive appearances streak in Division I.\nAt the end of the 2023\u201324 season, Auriemma's record as a head coach was 1217\u2013162, for an 88.2 winning percentage. That winning percentage is the highest among Division I active coaches. His career at UConn also includes 27 seasons with 30 or more wins. UConn has won twelve national championships under Auriemma (1995, 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2009, 2010, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2025) and made the Final Four 24 times (1991, 1995, 1996, 2000\u20132004, 2008\u20132019, 2021, 2022, 2024, 2025). Auriemma has also guided UConn to 21 conference regular season titles and 20 conference tournament titles. They lost 17 conference games in the last two decades of play in the Big East Conference, and have never lost a conference game since the old Big East reorganized as the American Athletic Conference in 2013.\nWith the win in 2016, Auriemma passed UCLA men's coach John Wooden for most college basketball championships, and the Huskies became the first Division I women's basketball team to win four straight national championships.\nThe team has been especially successful on its home court in the Harry A. Gampel Pavilion on the UConn campus in Storrs, Connecticut, and in the larger PeoplesBank Arena in Hartford; they tied an NCAA women's basketball record with 69 consecutive home wins between 2000 and 2003. That record was broken in 2011. The last home loss was to Villanova in the game that ended their 70-game winning streak. Moreover, between Auriemma's arrival and the close of the 2005 season, UConn won 295 games versus just 31 losses. The team set Big East Conference records for both single-game and season-long attendance.\nAuriemma is also known for cultivating individual players, and the 13 multiple-All-America players whom Auriemma has coached \u2014Rebecca Lobo, Jennifer Rizzotti, Kara Wolters, Nykesha Sales, Svetlana Abrosimova, Sue Bird, Swin Cash, Diana Taurasi, Tina Charles, Maya Moore, Stefanie Dolson, Bria Hartley and Breanna Stewart\u2014 have combined to win eight Naismith College Player of the Year awards, seven Wade Trophies, and nine NCAA basketball tournament Most Outstanding Player awards. The UConn athletics website also notes that, through 2006\u201307, every recruited freshman who has finished her eligibility at UConn has graduated with a degree.\nSince achieving its first #1 ranking in the 1994\u201395 season, UConn under Auriemma is 186\u201310 when playing as the nation's #1 team. At the end of the 2009\u201310 season, he had a record of 127\u201352 against top 25 opponents and a 57\u201335 record against top 10 opponents. He won his 600th game on New Year's Eve 2006, accomplishing the feat in 716 games, tying him with Phillip Kahler for the fastest women's basketball coach to reach that milestone. Auriemma won his 700th game on November 27, 2009, in 822 total games, becoming the fastest head coach to that milestone in the history of college basketball at any level, men or women. He is now one of eight active women's college basketball coaches to have 700 or more wins. Auriemma became the sixth coach in women's basketball history to reach 800 career victories on March 6, 2012, also reaching 800 career wins faster than any coach in the history of college basketball men or women at any division level in just 928 career games. On February 3, 2015, Auriemma notched his 900th victory in only 1,034 games, reaching this milestone also faster than any college coach in history. Auriemma was a member of the inaugural class (2006) of inductees to the University of Connecticut women's basketball Huskies of Honor recognition program.\nAuriemma's 2013\u20132018 salary is $10.9 million. Auriemma reached his 1,200th career win against Seton Hall on February 7, 2024.\nStaged shot incident.\nAuriemma created controversy in 1998 when he arranged with Villanova coach Harry Perretta to orchestrate a shot at the beginning of their scheduled game. University of Connecticut's top player, Nykesha Sales, was two points short of breaking the team record for most points in a career when she ruptured her right Achilles tendon in the second to last game of the season against Notre Dame. When the following game, against Villanova, began, Villanova players allowed Connecticut to win the tip off and then pass the ball down to Sales who was standing underneath the basket. She laid the ball in to break the record. Connecticut players then stood back and allowed Villanova an uncontested layup of their own before beginning regular play.\nRivalries.\nThe rivalry between the Huskies and the University of Tennessee Lady Vols extended to Auriemma's relationship with Volunteers counterpart Pat Summitt. The two, through print and broadcast media, were often at odds. At the end of the 2009\u201310 season, Auriemma had slightly surpassed Summitt among active Division I coaches for career winning percentage, with Auriemma at 85.8 and Summitt at 84.1. In 2007, Summitt, who believed Auriemma had used less-than-honorable tactics in his successful recruitment of Maya Moore, canceled the yearly game between the two programs. After Summitt announced her diagnosis of early onset Alzheimer's disease in 2011, the two mended their relationship, with Auriemma donating ten thousand dollars to Summitt's Alzheimer's foundation. Summitt retired in 2012 and died in 2016.\nFormer UConn men's basketball coach Jim Calhoun has been called Auriemma's \"unfriendly rival\", and he once mocked the women's team's fan base as the \"world's largest nursing home.\" When asked about their relationship in 2001, Auriemma said, \"Jim has a problem with anyone else's success, not just ours. Do we get along? No, but we don't have to.\"\nUnited States women's national basketball team.\nAuriemma was named head coach of the US women's team that competed in the Junior World Championship in Brno, Czech Republic in July 2001. The team won its first five games, including a record-setting win against Mali. The 97\u201327 final score represented the largest margin of victory by a USA team in Junior World Championship history. The preliminary round results qualified the team for the medal rounds, where they faced the host team, the Czech Republic. With a home crowd cheering them on, the Czech team won 92\u201388 and went on to beat Russia 82\u201380 to win the gold medal. The US team beat Australia 77\u201372 to win the bronze medal. Diana Taurasi was the leading scorer for the US with 19.3 points per game, while Alana Beard was close behind with 18.0 points per game. Nicole Powell was the leading rebounder for the US, with seven rebounds per game.\nAuriemma was named head coach of the US women's national team in preparation for competition in the 2010 World Championships and 2012 Olympics. Because many team members were still playing in the WNBA until just prior to the World Championship, the team had only one day of practice with the entire team before leaving for Ostrava and Karlovy Vary, Czech Republic. Despite this, the team won its first game against Greece by 26 points. The team continued to dominate with victory margins exceeding 20 points in the first five games. Several players shared scoring honors, with Swin Cash, Angel McCoughtry, Maya Moore, Diana Taurasi, Lindsay Whalen, and Sylvia Fowles all ending as high scorer in the first few games. The sixth game was against undefeated Australia \u2014 the USA jumped out to a 24-point lead and won 83\u201375. Team USA won its next two games by over 30 points, then faced the host team, the Czech Republic, in the championship game. They had a five-point lead at halftime, which was cut to three points, but the Czechs never got closer. Team USA won the championship and gold medal. At the 2012 Olympics, Auriemma's team went 8\u20130 and won the gold medal game over France 86\u201350. Their closest match of the Olympics \u2013 and the only game in which their margin of victory was less than 25 points \u2013 was an 86\u201373 win in the semi-finals over eventual Bronze Medal winner Australia.\nAuriemma was again named head coach of the US women's basketball team for the 2014 FIBA World Championship for Women and the 2016 Summer Olympics. In the 2014 World Championship, his team went 6\u20130 and won the gold medal, outscoring their opponents 553\u2013380 over the six games \u2013 an average margin of victory of almost 30 points per game.\nOther activities.\nDuring the college basketball offseason, Auriemma serves as an analyst for games of the Women's National Basketball Association broadcast on the American cable television networks ESPN and ESPN2, in which he often critiques his former players.\nAuriemma is close friends with former Saint Joseph's University basketball head coach Phil Martelli and his son, Mike Auriemma, attended and played basketball at Saint Joseph's.\nAuriemma served as an assistant coach to the gold medalist 2000 U.S. Olympic Team. On April 15, 2009, he was selected to lead USA Basketball Women's National Team in the 2010 FIBA World Championship in the Czech Republic and the London 2012 Summer Olympics.\nAuriemma is a member of the Board of Directors of the Kay Yow/WBCA Cancer Fund.\nAuriemma is a member of the board of directors at Connecticut Children's Foundation, Inc. and hosts a charity series of events, Geno for the Kids, every year benefiting Connecticut Children's Medical Center.\nAuriemma has parlayed his heritage and his love of Italian cuisine into lines of wines and sauces along with several restaurants in Connecticut.\nAwards and honors.\n1989\n1995\n1997\n2000\n2002\n2003\n2006\n2007\n2008\n2009\n2010\n2011\n2012\n2014\n2015\n2016\n2017\n2019\n2020\n2021\n2024"}
{"id": "756113", "revid": "50654299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756113", "title": "Jack Hargreaves", "text": "John Herbert Hargreaves OBE (31 December 1911 \u2013 15 March 1994) was an English television presenter and writer whose enduring interest was to comment without nostalgia or sentimentality on accelerating distortions in relations between the city and the countryside, seeking \u2013 in entertaining ways \u2013 to question and rebut metropolitan assumptions about its character and function. Hargreaves is remembered for appearing on \"How\", a children's programme which he also conceived, about how things worked or ought to work. It ran from 1966 on Southern Television (of which Hargreaves was a director) and networked on ITV until the demise of Southern in 1981.\nHargreaves was the presenter of the weekly magazine programme \"Out of Town\", first broadcast in 1960 following the success of his series \"Gone Fishing\" the previous year. Broadcast on Friday evenings on Southern Television the programme was also taken up by many of the other ITV regions, usually in a Sunday afternoon slot. In each episode Hargreaves appeared in short 16mm film reports on some aspect of rural life, usually one in each half of the episode. The films were introduced and narrated by him from a studio set based on the interior of a garden shed.\nIn 1967, with Ollie Kite he presented \"Country Boy\", a networked children's programme of 20 episodes in which a boy from the city was introduced to the ways of country. Two further series followed in 1969 and 1970. Other programmes he created for local viewers were \"Farm Progress\" and a live afternoon series \"Houseparty\". His country programmes continued after the demise of Southern Television with three series of \"Old Country\" for Channel 4 between 1983 and 1985.\nHargreaves was involved in the setting up of ITV, and a member of Southern's board of directors, and was employed by the National Farmers' Union, serving on the Nugent Committee (the Defence Lands Committee that investigated which parts of the Ministry of Defence holdings could be returned to private ownership). Hargreaves was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1972 New Year Honours. A biography of Hargreaves by Paul Peacock was published in July 2006.\nEarly life.\nBorn in Edmonton, \nMiddlesex, on 31 December 1911, the son of James Arthur and Ada Hargreaves (n\u00e9e Jubb), Jack was christened John Herbert and was one of three brothers. The family was rooted in Armitage Bridge near Huddersfield in the West Riding of Yorkshire, where at the time of his marriage in 1907 James Hargreaves was a commercial traveller. He based himself partly in London in connection with his work and also to allow his wife the benefits of the capital's midwifery. The brothers attended Merchant Taylors' School, then at the London Charterhouse, in Farringdon, after which Edward and Ronald Hargreaves pursued successful careers in medicine (Ronald became a noted psychiatrist), while in 1928 Jack went to study at the Royal Veterinary College of London University.\nEarly career.\nOn leaving the college, Hargreaves worked as a vet's assistant, but he was soon earning a living as a journalist. He also became a copywriter, and script writer for radio and films, and by the late 1930s he had established a reputation for his pioneering approaches to radio broadcasting.\nAt the outset of the Second World War, broadcasting was recognised as part of the war effort. Hargreaves' talents in this field meant that he faced being recruited to a restricted post in radio, a reserved occupation. Instead, he joined the Royal Artillery as a gunner, quickly became an NCO, entered the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, and was commissioned in October 1942 into the Royal Tank Regiment. His reputation as a communicator went ahead of him and he was recruited to the staff of General Montgomery to play a role setting up broadcasting services to Allied forces before and after D-Day. He left the army in 1945 with the substantive rank of major, having briefly held the acting rank of lieutenant-colonel.\nAfter the war, Hargreaves continued his media career and during the 1950s was editor of \"Lilliput\" magazine and \"Picture Post\" where he commissioned work from Bert Hardy. His brilliance as a communications manager led to his being recruited to the National Farmers Union by Jim Turner, later Lord Netherthorpe, who was celebrated for his success as a lobbyist for farmers. Working closely with Turner, Hargreaves organised and developed the NFU's Information Department, founding the \"British Farmer\" magazine during an almost intractable crisis of trust between NFU HQ and the members of the largest union in the country, many of whom were experiencing seismic change in the agricultural economy. Hargreaves was deputy programme controller of Southern Television from 1964 to 1976, in which role he devised new programmes.\nA lover of angling, Hargreaves was bemused at the way it had become tribalised by class and species, which he blamed on \"sociological, technical, financial and Malthusian\" causes. He wrote \"Fishing for a Year\" (1951), in which he argued for \"regression\" \u2013 the pursuit of different fish, in separate places and by varied methods, throughout the seasons. \"What do they know of fishing\" he wrote \"who know only one fish and one way to fish for him?\" Yet his language was seldom so polemic and never adversarial. Hargreaves' style was complemented in this first book by the drawings of his friend Bernard Venables:\n\"It is one of the most excellent provisions of Nature\" he wrote in a chapter for the warmest time of the year \"that chub are to be angled for on hot summer afternoons ... When the grass is high and full of hum and rustle, when the comfrey blooms along the edge of the water and the air shivers in the heat, the chub lie just under the surface in slacks and corners and eddies all along the bank. You will see them and you will think they have not seen you\". His writing and contacts among anglers saw the president of the Piscatorial Society, Sir Robert Saundby, asking Hargreaves to organise the Society's library. With typical thoroughness the collection was removed to Jack's home, later leaving it fully catalogued with not a volume unread. This was when he became sceptical about the opinion of the 17th-century author of \"The Compleat Angler\", Izaak Walton, as to the culinary qualities of the chub \u2013 a dish Hargreaves described as \"eating cotton wool full of pins and needles\".\nThe Nugent Report.\nAs an independent member of the Defence Lands Committee 1971\u201373, Hargreaves made key contributions to the Nugent Report, 1973, reviewing the use of land held by the country's armed forces for defence purposes. He became of the opinion that one of the best ways to reserve the countryside for its proper purpose was to keep most people out of it. He believed that although agriculture would be preferable, military exercises seemed less harmful in their impact on the environment than its use for the recreational choices of a predominantly urban population. This was a conundrum he shared wryly with his audience, gently repeating the point, that the countryside, insofar as it had a purpose for humans, was to grow their food in sustainable ways.\nFamily.\nJack Hargreaves was married, in 1933, to Jeanette Haegler. They had two sons, Mark and Victor; then, after divorce, he married Elisabeth Van de Putte in 1944. Two more sons were born \u2013 James Stephen in 1946 and Edward John in 1947. That marriage ended in 1948 when he began a relationship with a journalist from \"Vogue\", Barbara Baddeley.\nLiving with her until 1963, Hargreaves became a stepfather to Bay and her brother Simon, Barbara's children by the diplomat John Baddeley. He also had a daughter Polly, born in 1957 as a result of a six-year relationship with his secretary Judy Hogg.\nIn 1965, Hargreaves married Isobel Hatfield (born 12 April 1919). Isobel died four years after her husband on 5 February 1998 and her ashes were scattered with his on Bulbarrow Hill in Dorset, near their home.\nPublished film, tapes and DVDs.\nHargreaves had worked with Steve Wade on \"How\" before Southern Television lost its franchise. In 1985 Hargreaves worked with Wade to make 28 new \"Out of Town\" episodes for video release. Instead of the studio 'shed' that had been a mainstay of the earlier series, these episodes were made in Hargreaves's real shed at his last home \u2013 Raven Cottage, Belchalwell, Dorset.\nUsing original cut film inserts he had bought from Southern, Hargreaves acquired a Steenbeck editing machine and, with Wade, selected films to be inserted into the new series with new links shot in the shed. They were distributed by Primetime, later Endemol, as VHS tapes and later DVDs.\nHargreaves also authored a number of audio-tapes and long play records on his favourite subjects.\nIn 2004, a full-length edition of \"Out of Town\", first broadcast on 23 May 1980, was included on a DVD released by ITV Meridian to mark the closing of Southern Television's Southampton studios. Until 2012 this remained the only one of Hargreaves' original broadcast programmes to have been published in any format. The whereabouts of the remaining master tapes was unknown for many years but 34 complete original episodes of \"Out of Town\" \u2013 broadcast in 1980 and 1981 \u2013 eventually came to light, and were made available on DVD.\nHargreaves' stepson, Simon Baddeley, who had been bequeathed rights in his stepfather's books, film and sound footage, purchased \"Out of Town\" DVD rights from Endemol, restoring and re-releasing many more broadcasts via his licensee, \"Network on Air\" (now defunct). The CEO of \"Network\", Tim Beddows, died in November 2022. Baddeley's contract with \"Network\" ended when the company ceased trading in May 2023.\nOn 28 July 2010, comedians Robert Popper and Peter Serafinowicz added a new narration track to an episode of \"Out Of Town\" to create the spoof film \"Markets of Britain, a short film by Lee Titt\".\nTalking Pictures TV began broadcasting \"Out of Town\" on 5 February 2024. This included all of the surviving Southern Television episodes and the 1985 compilations made for the home video market.\nIn May 2025 the British free-to-air channel Rewind TV announced that they would be transmitting \"Old Country\" from 20 July 2025."}
{"id": "756115", "revid": "43961533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756115", "title": "Combining diacritics", "text": ""}
{"id": "756116", "revid": "43961533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756116", "title": "Combining diacritic", "text": ""}
{"id": "756125", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756125", "title": "Permittivity of free space", "text": ""}
{"id": "756128", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756128", "title": "Permeability of free space", "text": ""}
{"id": "756138", "revid": "27810432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756138", "title": "UnrealScript programming language", "text": ""}
{"id": "756166", "revid": "1533207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756166", "title": "\u00dbbu", "text": ""}
{"id": "756168", "revid": "1598480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756168", "title": "Ubu", "text": "Ubu or UBU may refer to:"}
{"id": "756171", "revid": "47868408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756171", "title": "The Parachute Club", "text": "The Parachute Club was a Canadian band formed in Toronto in 1982. They released three top 40 hits in Canada between 1983 and 1987, including \"Rise Up\", \"At the Feet of the Moon\", and \"Love Is Fire\" (which featured guest duet vocals from John Oates). The band was known for being one of the first mainstream pop acts in Canada to integrate world music influences, particularly Caribbean styles such as reggae and soca, into their sound.\n\"The Chutes\", as they were known, broke up after touring to promote their third and final album, and played their final gig in the summer of 1988. A reconstituted version of the Parachute Club (including four of the earlier band members) played a number of live shows between 2005 and 2008. The band reunited again in 2011 and remained intermittently active through 2014.\nHistory.\nFormation and early years (1982\u20131983).\nThe original Parachute Club band consisted of Lorraine Segato on vocals and guitar, Lauri Conger on keyboards and vocals, Billy Bryans on drums, Margo Davidson on saxophone and vocals, Julie Masi on percussion and vocals, Steve Webster on bass, and Dave Gray on guitar. Davidson at the time was one of very few female saxophonists playing professionally; Segato, Conger, and Bryans had previously been associated for several years as the nucleus of Mama Quilla II, a band that gained respect in Toronto in the late 1970s and early 1980s for their integrated musical and sexual politics\u2014elements that would continue with The Parachute Club. Billy Bryans had also been a well-known percussionist and producer in Toronto since the early 1970s, primarily associated with the Downchild Blues Band during this period.\nSegato and Bryans first met in 1979, and started to collaborate musically. By 1982, they were both members of the Toronto band V, which was formed while Mama Quilla II was then on hiatus. In the late summer of 1982, Bryans was offered a chance to play at Toronto's inaugural Festival of Festivals, which later evolved into the Toronto International Film Festival. With other members of V unavailable, Bryans approached Segato to form a new one-off band to play at the festival. They added Lauri Conger from Mama Quilla II, as well as local musicians Margo Davidson, Dave Gray and Steve Webster. The band was well received at the festival, and shortly thereafter received and accepted an offer for both a management and recording contract with Current Records. Adding Jule Masi to the ranks, The Parachute Club was thereby formed, while Mama Quilla II made their 'hiatus' permanent and disbanded.\nEarly success (1983\u20131984).\nThe Parachute Club's eponymous first album, released in 1983, was produced by Daniel Lanois, who had previously been the recording engineer of Mama Quilla II's sole release, an EP released in 1982. The group had to write material for the album rather quickly, and consequently recruited poet/artist Lynne Fernie to assist with some of the lyrics. Though Fernie would never be an official member of The Parachute Club, she would contribute lyrics to all their albums, and function as an unofficial honorary member of the group.\nThe song \"Rise Up\", from Parachute Club's first album, won a Canadian Juno Award in 1984 for Single of the Year, while the group won a Juno award for Most Promising Group of The Year.\nDuring 1983, Steve Webster, a co-writer of Parachute Club's best known song, \"Rise Up\" left the band, to perform with Billy Idol. On their 1983/1984 touring dates, bassist Russ Boswell stepped in for Webster; he would then leave the band to join Corey Hart's backing band. Keir Brownstone, formerly with Bob Segarini, became the band's new permanent bassist in mid-1984.\nThe band's second album \"At the Feet of the Moon\" was released in October 1984, and the title track became the group's second Canadian Top 40 hit. This album (and single) was produced by Michael Beinhorn.\nLater success (1985\u20131987).\nIn 1985, the group received the Juno Award for Group of the Year, as well as the equivalent CASBY award. An album of remixed tracks, \"Moving Thru The Moonlight\", was also issued in late 1985.\nIn 1986, The Parachute Club released their third album, \"Small Victories\". The album included the group's third and final top 40 hit, \"Love is Fire\", featuring Segato singing a duet with John Oates of Hall &amp; Oates. Oates produced the single, as well as several other \"Small Victories\" tracks; The Parachute Club and Mike Jones were credited as producers on the remainder of the album. In 1987, the group's video of their single, \"Love Is Fire\" received the Juno Award for Video of the Year. Julie Masi left the band after their Canadian tour in support of the album, and was replaced on a session basis for live dates by singer Rebecca Jenkins.\nIn 1987, the group composed and performed four songs for the Canadian and U.S. versions of the anime series \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\". During 1987, Lauri Conger also left the band, and Aaron Davis of Canadian jazz-fusion band Manteca was brought in as the group's new session keyboard player.\nWinding down (1988\u20131989).\nThe band (now officially a quintet of Segato, Bryans, Gray, Davidson, and Brownstone) recorded a final non-album single in 1988 (\"Big Big World\"). Bryans produced; guests included Aaron Davis (keyboards), and vocalists Rebecca Jenkins, Holly Cole, and Micah Davis. The band's final performances were in July 1988 at the Ontario Place Forum in Toronto, where the remaining band members were rejoined by Lauri Conger, filling in for an ill Davis.\nIn early 1989, the original Parachute Club formally disbanded, with band members going their separate ways. Some members, such as Lorraine Segato and Billy Bryans, continued as professional musicians, while other members, such as Margo Davidson and Lauri Conger, substantially left the music business. Davidson, who died in 2008 at the age of 50, became a creative writer and community activist for the homeless, serving as a director of St. Clare's Multifaith Housing Society and as an outreach worker at Eva's Phoenix.\nIn 2005, critic Greg Quill wrote in the \"Toronto Star\" that \"No musical collective bespoke this city during a specific period as powerfully as Parachute Club did in the 1980s. Their infectious, inclusive, soca-soaked dance music carried important messages about the social changes Toronto was experiencing at the time, about sexual and personal politics, about the need for hope and courage in an age of confusing, impersonal rhetoric from local policymakers and world leaders.\"\nAdvertising controversy (1998).\nIn 1998, the Parachute Club song \"Rise Up\" was licensed by EMI Music Canada to McCain Foods Limited for a television commercial for self-rising pizza dough. Members of Parachute Club publicly opposed this commercial use of the song. In a news release issued at the commencement of litigation, band members stated that \"(a)s a result of its use on the ad...the song, the people who believe in it and the reputation of its creators have suffered damage within the sphere of public credibility and our personal reputations.\" A settlement resulted in the band members recovering their music rights from EMI.\nReunion and band revival (2005\u20132008, 2011\u20132014).\nIn 2005, a reconstituted Parachute Club commenced performing, co-headlining a reunion show with Martha and the Muffins and headlining at Toronto's City Roots Festival. The reconstituted band included original members Segato, Bryans, and Gray, as well as Brownstone (who was a member of the band for their second and third albums). Masi, Conger, Steve Webster, and Davidson were not part of this revived line-up. New members of the revived line-up were Mystic Walsh and Miranda Walsh (daughters of Eric Walsh, lead singer of Toronto reggae band Messenjah) on vocals, and Ashley Wey on keyboards. By 2008, these new members had been replaced by Chendy Leon Jr, Glenda del Monte and Rebecca Campbell (although Miranda Walsh subbed for an absent Campbell at one 2008 show).\nIn 2006, The Parachute Club was inducted into the Canadian Indies Hall of Fame. Founding member Margo Davidson died May 17, 2008, aged 50.\nThrough 2008, the reconstituted band performed on a regular basis, although they did not release any new material. The Parachute Club did not play any dates after August 2008, and the band's website was not updated after this time. \"Rise Up\" was given the SOCAN Classic Award in 2000.\nSegato performed \"Rise Up\" at the state funeral of Jack Layton on August 27, 2011, with the choir of the Metropolitan Community Church of Toronto. The Parachute Club reunited again on September 30, 2011, for a free show in Toronto's David Pecaut Square to celebrate their induction to Canada's Walk of Fame. The band line-up for the reunion consisted of original members Lorraine Segato (vocals), Dave Gray (guitar), and Steve Webster with new recruits Chris Brown (keyboards), Art Avalos (drums), and Vicki Randle (percussion, backing vocals). Billy Bryans, too ill to perform for the entire show, did join the band on drums for their last two numbers, including \"Rise Up\". Bryans, one of three musicians to be part of every Parachute Club line-up, died April 23, 2012, at age 63, following a long battle with cancer.\nPartly at Bryans' insistence that the group continue without him, The Parachute Club decided to stay together to perform gigs. During the 2012 Edmonton (Alberta) Folk Music Festival, the band performed on August 11, 2012, at the volunteer after party and at Stage 2 on August 12. They also played at the Niagara Co-op Expo on October 13, 2012, in St. Catharines, Ontario. For these shows, the Parachute Club now included founding members Lorraine Segato, Dave Gray, Julie Masi, Lauri Conger and Steve Webster. Prior to this reunion, Steve Webster had not played with the group for 27 years, Masi for 25 years and Conger for 24 years.\nIn 2014, the surviving band members released a contemporary dance remix of \"Rise Up\", in conjunction with Toronto's hosting of the 2014 edition of WorldPride.\nSegato resumed her solo career with series of solo shows in 2014 and a new album in January 2015. Though the band has issued no formal announcement concerning their current status, The Parachute Club has been inactive since 2014. In 2018 and 2019, Segato produced two new supergroup versions of \"Rise Up\", one by various Canadian country musicians credited to The Common Cause Collective, and a pop version credited to The New Parachute Collective. In November 2019, the song \"Rise Up\" was inducted into the Canadian Songwriter's Hall of Fame. 2023 saw The Parachute Club inducted into Canada's Rock of Fame along with several other notable 1970s and 1980s bands."}
{"id": "756172", "revid": "75230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756172", "title": "Charles Frambach Berlitz", "text": ""}
{"id": "756173", "revid": "887109746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756173", "title": "Berlitz", "text": "Berlitz can refer to:"}
{"id": "756175", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756175", "title": "Kennet and Avon canal", "text": ""}
{"id": "756178", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756178", "title": "Rudolph Boysen", "text": "Charles Rudolph Boysen (July 14, 1895 \u2013 November 25, 1950) was an American horticulturist who created the boysenberry, a hybrid between several varieties of blackberries, raspberries, and loganberries.\nBoysenberry.\nBoysen had experimented with various berry crosses in Napa, California, during the 1920s. When Boysen first moved to Orange County, he brought berry vines with him which he planted on his in-law\u2019s farm in Anaheim. Boysen worked as Anaheim City Parks superintendent from 1921 to 1950. In 1923, his hybrid grafted successfully and grew to bear fruit. Unable to make his new berry a commercial success, Boysen abandoned his crop after breaking his back in an accident. In 1927, he took specimens to Coolidge Rare Plant Nursery in Altadena.\nYears later, a fellow grower named Walter Knott heard about the berry and tracked down Boysen. Knott was able to bring a few dying vines back to life at his farm, now known as Knott's Berry Farm in Buena Park, California. He named the fruit after Boysen.\nBiography.\nIn 1930, Charles Rudolph Boysen was married to Margaret Bruton (1892\u20131970). They had a child, Robert Matt Boysen (1924\u20131980).\nBoysen died at the age of 55, and is interred at the Melrose Abbey Cemetery in Anaheim.\nLegacy.\nBoysenberry Lane in Placentia, California, and Boysen Avenue in Anaheim, California, are both named for Rudolph Boysen. Boysen Park, a public park in Anaheim, was named in his honor. It features playgrounds, baseball diamonds, a large lawn, and a stucco-coated Grumman F9F-6P Cougar as a children's climbing toy. The Anaheim Tennis Center is located adjacent to Boysen Park, located at 951 S. State College Blvd. A garden of desert plants collected by Boysen during several trips to the deserts of southern California, Arizona, and Mexico are showcased at Pearson Park in Anaheim."}
{"id": "756195", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756195", "title": "Baron Kelvin", "text": ""}
{"id": "756197", "revid": "23646674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756197", "title": "Vector signal analyzer", "text": "A vector signal analyzer is an instrument that measures the magnitude and phase of the input signal at a single frequency within the IF bandwidth of the instrument. The primary use is to make in-channel measurements, such as error vector magnitude, code domain power, and spectral flatness, on known signals.\nVector signal analyzers are useful in measuring and demodulating digitally modulated signals like W-CDMA, LTE, and WLAN. These measurements are used to determine the quality of modulation and can be used for design validation and compliance testing of electronic devices.\nOperation.\nThe vector signal analyzer spectrum analysis process typically has a down-convert &amp; digitizing stage and a DSP &amp; display stage.\nDown-convert and digitize stage.\nA vector signal analyzer operates by first down-converting the signal spectra by using superheterodyne techniques.\nA portion of the input signal spectrum is down-converted (using a voltage-controlled oscillator and a mixer) to the center frequency of a band-pass filter. The use of a voltage-controlled oscillator allows consideration of different carrier frequencies.\nAfter the conversion to an intermediate frequency, the signal is filtered in order to band-limit the signal and prevent aliasing. The signal is then digitized using an analog-to-digital converter. Sampling rate is often varied in relation to the frequency span under consideration.\nDSP and display stage.\nOnce the signal is digitized, it is separated into quadrature and in-phase components (I/Q data) using a quadrature detector, which is typically implemented with a discrete Hilbert transform. Several measurements are made and displayed using these signal components and various DSP processes, such as the ones below.\nSignal spectrum from FFT.\nA FFT is used to compute the frequency spectrum of the signal. Usually there is a windowing function option to limit spectral leakage and enhance frequency resolution. This window is implemented by multiplying it with the digitized values of the sample period before computing the FFT.\nConstellation diagram.\nA constellation diagram represents a signal modulated by a digital modulation scheme such as quadrature amplitude modulation or phase-shift keying. This diagram maps the magnitude of the quadrature and in-phase components to the vertical and horizontal directions respectively. Qualitative assessments of signal integrity can be made based on interpretation of this diagram.\nError vector magnitude.\nBy representing the quadrature and in-phase components as the vertical and horizontal axes, the error vector magnitude can be computed as the distance between the ideal and measured constellation points on the diagram. This requires knowledge of the modulated signal in order to compare the received signal with the ideal signal.\nTypical functionality.\nTypical vector signal analyzer displays feature the spectrum of the signal measured within the IF bandwidth, a constellation diagram of the demodulated signal, error vector magnitude measurements, and a time-domain plot of the signal. Many more measurement results can be displayed depending on the type of modulation being used (symbol decoding, MIMO measurements, radio frame summary, etc.)."}
{"id": "756201", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756201", "title": "DBZ movies", "text": ""}
{"id": "756202", "revid": "910180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756202", "title": "Tube top", "text": "A tube top is a shoulderless, sleeveless garment primarily worn by women that wraps around the upper torso. It is generally tight over the breasts, and usually uses elastic bands at its top and bottom to prevent it from falling. The tube top's precursor was a beachwear or informal summer garment worn by young girls in the 1950s that became more widely popular in the 1970s and returned to popularity in the 1990s and 2000s.\nIn 2012, Iranian-Israeli fashion designer Elie Tahari claimed that he helped popularize the tube top after his arrival in New York in 1971. The original tube tops, as spotted by Tahari in a New York factory run by Murray Kleid, were elasticated gauze tubes reportedly produced through a factory manufacturing error. Murray ran with this product for years, and eventually Tahari bought tubes from Kleid, later setting up his own factory to mass produce tube tops to meet widespread demand.\nDress code controversies.\nIn the 2010s, tube tops were banned by some schools (e.g., one New Jersey school's dress code banned tube tops as \"too 'distracting' for the eighth grade boys\"). In 2018, opponents of these types of clothing bans argued that they are a \"form of body shaming\" on women and should not be used; in one San Francisco Bay area school district, based on advice from the National Organization for Women, tube tops (along with miniskirts and other formerly disallowed items) are being permitted again."}
{"id": "756205", "revid": "197953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756205", "title": "Meishaonian Zhi Lian", "text": ""}
{"id": "756207", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756207", "title": "Hampton (town), New Hampshire", "text": ""}
{"id": "756217", "revid": "2532707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756217", "title": "Ravenstein", "text": "Ravenstein may refer to:"}
{"id": "756222", "revid": "82899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756222", "title": "Abu Ghraib scandal", "text": ""}
{"id": "756223", "revid": "4145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756223", "title": "Song writer", "text": ""}
{"id": "756226", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756226", "title": "Pricewaterhouse Coopers", "text": ""}
{"id": "756231", "revid": "21067760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756231", "title": "Hitomi (singer)", "text": ", known professionally as , is a Japanese singer. She began her career as teen model before making her singing debuting under the helm of Tetsuya Komuro in 1994, who produced Hitomi's earliest work in pop music. Hitomi has striven for artistry over the course of her career, penning \"forward-looking\" lyrics and becoming known for her \"unusual\" fashion sense that accompanied a \"supermodel allure\". Her signature songs include \"Candy Girl\", \"Love 2000\" and \"Samurai Drive\".\nHitomi's career enjoyed success from Komuro's direction, including his work on her chart-topping second album \"By Myself\" (1996), however, her desire for more artistic input led to their amicable split by 1998. She started working with other musicians and composers, and branched out into musical genres such as pop rock as evident on her fifth album \"Love Life\" (2000), a turning point which sustained her position in the industry. Hitomi began incorporating electropop styles with her subsequent moves to Love Life Records in 2005 and independent label Maximum 10 in 2011.\nHitomi has amassed four number one albums throughout her career, including \"H\" (1999), \"Huma-rhythm\" (2002) and \"Self Portrait\" (2002), and has sold over 8.5\u00a0million records in Japan alone. She has earned two Japan Record Awards for Excellent Work and a Japan Gold Disc accolade for Rock &amp; Pop Album of the Year, and has performed at the prestigious \"K\u014dhaku Uta Gassen\" program twice.\nBiography.\nEarly life.\nBorn in Tochigi, Japan, her family relocated to Kawasaki, Kanagawa Prefecture when she was a child. Consequently, she always identified herself as a girl from Kanagawa. Hitomi was an enthusiastic athlete throughout her childhood, playing baseball, soccer, and basketball, as well as an avid reader of manga. At age 16, she was spotted and approached by a scout from a modeling agency. She signed a short modeling contract and began appearing in magazines while she was still in high school.\nIn 1993, then 17 years old, Furuya was spotted by eminent Avex music producer Tetsuya Komuro at an audition. Komuro signed her to Avex, put her through vocal training, and decided that she should use an all-lowercase 'hitomi' as her stage name. The following year, in November 1994, she released her debut single, \"Let's Play Winter\", through Avex Trax, to which she wrote the lyrics. Since then, Hitomi has been the lyricist for almost all of her songs.\nDebut and success.\nWhile her first two singles, \"Let's Play Winter\" and \"We Are \"Lonely Girl\"\" were considerable failures, her third single \"Candy Girl\" was used as the theme for a Kodak CM, and secured a top 10 spot on the Japanese Oricon music chart. Subsequent singles \"By Myself\" and \"Busy Now\" established Hitomi as one to watch in Japanese entertainment. Her second album \"By Myself\", released in 1996, became her first musical work to debut at number one on the Oricon charts; it sold more than 800,000 copies.\nAfter three studio albums and twelve singles, Komuro and Hitomi went their separate ways in 1998, and in 1999 she released her first greatest hits album, entitled \"H\", that peaked at number one on the Japanese charts and sold more than a 500 thousand copies.\nIn 1999, her single \"Kimi no Tonari\" was used as the ending theme song for the Atlus' PlayStation role-playing game \"\".\nIn 2000, Hitomi gained much public attention after her single \"Love 2000\" was used as the image song of runner Naoko Takahashi, who became popular in Japan after winning the gold medal in the 2000 Summer Olympics. This helped the song to get a lot of airplay, and become a commercial success. She performed the song at the annual \"K\u014dhaku Uta Gassen\". Her \"Love Life\" album released around that same time also caught attention within the Japanese entertainment industry because of its cover, on which she appeared naked covering her breasts with her arms.\nIn 2001, her song \"I Am\" was used as the second opening for the TV anime series InuYasha.\n2004\u20132009.\nAfter a one-year and a half hiatus, in May 2004 Hitomi released a new studio album, \"Traveler\". The concert tour she subsequently embarked upon was a huge success, and she played to packed arenas at almost every stop. As the 10th anniversary of her debut came in 2005, she opened her own record label, Love Life Records, which functioned as a subdivision of Avex. The first single to be released from the label was \"Japanese Girl\", her 28th single, which also marked a change in her style and looks, one that was much more modern dance-oriented and sexy, than any of her previous works.\nIn 2007, Hitomi obtained her first lead role in the movie \"Akumu Tantei\", and also participated in her first musical: \"Waiting For The Sun: Tenkimachi\". On December 5, 2007 her singles compilation album \"Peace\" was released to celebrate her 13th anniversary. She released a new digital single called \"Fight for Your Run\u2606\" in August 2008.\nAfter a year on hiatus, she released a new single, \"World! Wide! Love!\", on May 20, 2009, and a month later she released her ninth studio album, \"Love Life 2\". This album was a spiritual successor to her 2000 album \"Love Life\", with Hitomi once again nude on the cover of it, but this time pregnant with her child.\n2011\u2013present: Departure from Avex Trax.\nHitomi's last single in the Avex label, \"Umarete Kurete Arigato/Smile World\", was released on February 16, 2011. This month she also inaugurated her own baby clothing brand called PomiPomi. On March 28, 2011 it was announced that two new songs, \"Special\" and \"Guru Maze Yeah!\" would be used in the NHK educative cartoon \"Hana Kappa\", as opening and ending themes respectively.\nOn April 5, 2011, it was announced that Hitomi had left the Avex major label and had signed to Maximum 10, an independent label affiliated with the Avex company. On April 27, her tenth studio album and first indie album, \"Spirit\", was released, it featured mainly productions of western artists such as Rivers Cuomo, Chuck Comeau, Pierre Bouvier and Gabe Saporta. In June, Hitomi started her first live tour in five years, titled \"Live Tour 2011: Spirit\".\nDespite leaving the Avex label, Hitomi still participated as a featured artist in the tenth anniversary version of their A-Nation. She was part of the line-up of the concerts held in Aichi, Osaka, and Tokio. Her performance was later included in the DVD of A-Nation released in late 2011. In August 2011, Japanese model and occasional singer Mini made a remake of Hitomi's hit single \"Candy Girl\", which was released as a digital single in September. On November 30, 2011, Hitomi released a new mini album entitled \"Special\", in which her songs featured in the NHK educational program \"Hana Kappa\" were included. This became her last release published by Avex.\nHitomi also collaborated with Sfpr, fellow label mates from Maximum 10, in the song \"Feeder\", which was included in their debut album released on January 1, 2012. On October 10, 2012, she released her eleventh album \"M\u00f6bius\" (stylized as \u221e). The album had no commercial singles like her previous work, although the Brian Lee-produced song \"Up Down\" was promoted through a music video via YouTube. In November 2013, it was announced that Hitomi would be performing the theme song for the movie \"\". The song, entitled \"Teppen Star\", was released as her 35th single on December 18, 2013.\nOn March 18, 2014, Hitomi released a digital single entitled \"Bara Yume\". The song featured girl-group MAX on backing vocals, and was meant to be an answer song to her 1995 single \"Candy Girl\", as part of the celebration of her 20th anniversary in the music industry. She also performed for the first season of the 2014\u20132015 slice-of-life anime \"GO-GO Tamagotchi!\". She performed a cover of the anime's opening theme and new song entitled \"Rainbow\", which serves as its ending theme. The 10th episode of \"GO-GO Tamagotchi!\" features a Tamagotchi character themed off her, named \"Hitomitchi\".\nIn October 2015, it was announced that Hitomi would participate in a tribute album to globe, for which she recorded a cover of their 1997 single \"Anytime Smokin' Cigarette\". The album, entitled \"#Globe 20th -Special Cover Best-\", was released on December 16, 2015.\nIn 2017, Hitomi was appointed to sing the new theme song of NHK's Minna no Uta. The song was entitled \"Yume Hakonda Randoseru\" and was released as a digital single on February 2, 2017. In November 2017, she also started a new radio program called \"Hitomi Radio\" on Inter FM.\n2025 - present: 30th anniversary and return to music.\nIn 2025, Hitomi celebrated her 30th anniversary in the music industry with a special acoustic concert held on August 23 at the intimate venue Blues Alley Japan in Meguro, Tokyo. During the concert, she reflected warmly on her music career and expressed gratitude to her longtime fans, declaring \"It does not really feel like I have 'done 30 years' [\u2026] It is not that intense drive I had when I was younger, but still\u2014I truly believe this is where everything starts again. So I would be so happy if everyone could start this new chapter together with me,\" after which she also announced a free online live concert to be held in November 3 of the same year.\nOn November 3, 2025\u2014designated as \"Hitomi Day\" (written as 1103, which in Japanese it phonetically resembles her name)\u2014 Hitomi marked her 30th debut anniversary with the free online live event \"Hitomi 30th Anniversary Online Live \"Re:Connect\"\", streamed on Avex's official YouTube channel. The pre-recorded performance, featuring a six-piece band in a Tokyo studio, included Hitomi herself joining the live chat for real-time interaction with fans. A highlight of the concert was a special collaboration where fellow artists Kaori Mochida and Tomiko Van\u2014contemporaries who rose to prominence in the same era\u2014personally rewrote the lyrics to two of Hitomi's past songs: Mochida handled \"Taion\", while Van reworked \"There is\u2026\", with the updated versions receiving their world premieres during the show. The concert was subsequently released in December 2025 as Hitomi's first live album, entitled \"Re:Connect\", exclusively on digital platforms.\nOn January 14, 2026, Hitomi released a new single entitled \"Stand by...\", exclusively on digital platforms. The song, written and composed by Hitomi herself, served as the opening theme for the TV Tokyo drama series \"Kono Ai wa Machigai desu ka: Furin no Shokuzai\" (\"Is This Love a Mistake?: Atonement for Adultery\"), which premiered on January 7 of that year. Additionally, she is expected to hold her concert \"Hitomi Live 2026: Stand By\" at the Duo Music Exchange in Shibuya, Tokyo, on March 28, 2026.\nPersonal life.\nOn December 1, 2002 Hitomi married Keisuke Uesugi, a businessman and former member of hip-hop group Gasboys. They divorced in November 2007. On July 11, 2008, she disclosed her second marriage to actor Masayoshi Haneda, and her four-month pregnancy. She gave birth to a baby girl on December 23, 2008. She and Haneda filed for divorce on December 6, 2011, and it was made public that they had already been living separately for over six months. In June 2014, Hitomi announced that she was five-month pregnant of her second child, a boy, and was engaged to the father. Her third son was born two years later on October 22, 2016, by her third husband as well. In 2020, on her 44th birthday, Hitomi announced her fourth pregnancy. Hitomi announced via her Instagram that she gave birth to a baby boy on 23 July 2020."}
{"id": "756239", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756239", "title": "Download.Ject", "text": ""}
{"id": "756250", "revid": "1303216534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756250", "title": "Mescal", "text": "Mescal and Mescall may refer to:"}
{"id": "756251", "revid": "5379071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756251", "title": "Fleadh (disambiguation)", "text": ""}
{"id": "756252", "revid": "7061136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756252", "title": "Spanish Sahara", "text": "Spanish Sahara (; ), officially the Spanish Possessions in the Sahara from 1884 to 1958, then Province of the Sahara between 1958 and 1976, was the name used for the modern territory of Western Sahara when it was occupied and ruled by Spain between 1884 and 1976. It had been one of the most recent acquisitions as well as one of the last remaining holdings of the Spanish Empire, which had once extended from the Americas to the Spanish East Indies.\nBetween 1946 and 1958, the Spanish Sahara was amalgamated with the nearby Spanish-protected Cape Juby and Spanish Ifni to form a new colony, Spanish West Africa. This was reversed during the Ifni War when Ifni and the Sahara became provinces of Spain separately, two days apart, while Cape Juby was ceded to Morocco in the peace deal.\nSpain gave up its Saharan possession following international pressure, mainly from United Nations resolutions regarding decolonisation. There was internal pressure from the native Sahrawi population, through the Polisario Front, and the claims of Morocco and Mauritania. After gaining independence in 1956, Morocco laid claim to the territory as part of a claimed historic pre-colonial territory. Mauritania also claimed the territory for a number of years on a historical basis.\nIn 1976, Mauritania and Morocco invaded the territory, now known as Western Sahara, but the Polisario Front, promoting the sovereignty of an independent Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic, fought a guerrilla war against both, forcing Mauritania to relinquish its claim in 1979. The war against Morocco continued until 1991, when the United Nations negotiated a ceasefire and has tried to arrange negotiations and a referendum to let the population vote on its future. Today, Morocco occupies about two-thirds of the territory, while the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic controls the rest. Spain continues to be the \"de jure\" administering power of Western Sahara.\nName.\nOfficially the territory was called the province of Sahara from 1958 to 1976. However, before 1958 it was divided into three administrative zones, Rio De Oro, the \"occupied zone\" and the Southern Protectorate.\nHistory.\nBeginning.\nSince the 18th century, Spanish fishermen from the Canary Islands had been coming to the shores of Western Sahara, where fish are plentiful. At the end of the 19th century, several Africanist societies, like the Spanish Association for the Exploration of Africa, were formed to explore and colonize this still largely unknown territory. These associations formed a lobby group to put pressure on the Spanish government of Canovas de Castillo to provide government assistance to their ventures. They were assisted in this by large business interests, who hoped to capitalize on the trans Saharan caravan trade and exploit the fishing resources of the coast of Rio de Oro. They also received support from King Alfonso in the form of a donation. The Spanish also feared the French in Arguin or the British North West Africa Company may claim the region and undermine Spanish interests in Morocco and the Canaries. Despite his personal misgivings regarding the venture, due to the various reasons above, De Castillo proceeded to claim the Saharan coast for Spain at the Congress of Berlin.\nOccupation and annexation.\nIn September 1881, the \"Sociedad Pesquer\u00edas Canario-Africanas\" built a pontoon in the Rio de Oro bay after they were ceded the Dakhla peninsula by local leaders. In 1884, fearing a British or French takeover of the region the \"Sociedad Espa\u00f1ola de Africanistas y Colonistas\" sent Emilio Bonelli to the Saharan coast to negotiate with the tribes to establish a Spanish presence. On 28 November 1884, Bonelli signed a treaty with three representatives of the Oulad Bou Sbaa which authorised the establishment of trading posts in R\u00edo de Oro, Cape Blanc and Angra de Cintra.\nUsing Bonelli's treaty as justification, the Africanistas persuaded the Spanish government to declare a protectorate over Rio de Oro, Cape Blanc and Angra de Cintra in December 1884. Their claim was later ratified at the Berlin Conference the following month. However the Spanish only settled in Rio de Oro. Construction of a fort was begun in January 1885 by the Spanish Africa Commercial Company at Rio de Oro. However it was later abandoned in May due to an attack from the Oulad Delim. However Canovas de Castillo pledged to the Cortes to maintain the Spanish presence, and the fort was reoccupied by a detachment of soldiers commanded by Captain Jose Chacon in June. They rebuilt the fort, naming it Vila Cisneros after the Cardinal Cisneros. To protect the newly founded settlement a garrison of 25 troops were left there, who would be relieved every three months by a supply ship from the Canary islands. Despite this the Oulad Delim attacked again in 1887, 1892 and 1894, only stopping in 1895 after an agreement with Sheikh Ouled Laroussi, a powerful leader in the tribe. To further cement Spanish control on 10 July 1885, Spain proclaimed a protectorate over the coast from Cape Bojador to Cape Blanc under the authority of the Overseas Ministry. Bonelli was appointed the Royal Commissioner, who would administer the protectorate, make treaties with the natives and command all armed forces within it. A further decree in 1887 extended Spanish jurisdiction 150 miles inland, declared the region a Spanish colony and transferred authority to a \"politico-military sub governor\" resident in Vila Cisneros and subordinate to the Captain General of the Canary Islands. In the summer of 1886, under the sponsorship of the Spanish Society of Commercial Geography (\"Sociedad Espa\u00f1ola de Geograf\u00eda Comercial\"), Julio Cervera Baviera, Felipe Rizzo (1823\u20131908) and Francisco Quiroga (1853\u20131894) traversed the territory, and made topographical and astronomical observations. At the time, geographers had not mapped the territory and its features were not widely known. Their trek is considered the first scientific expedition in that part of the Sahara. They managed to reach the salt pans of Idjil and there on 12 July 1886 signed a treaty with the Emir of Adrar and Saharawi chieftains which ceded to Spain control over vast areas of desert. However Spain could never assert these claims due to diplomatic weakness and a lack of resources to actually occupy these vast areas.\nOn 27 June 1900 France and Spain signed the Treaty of Paris, which defined the border between the Spanish Sahara and French Mauritania. These borders were clarified by a convention in 1904, where Spain lost vast claims in Southern Morocco. The 1904 convention also recognized Spain's right to Santa Cruz de Mar Pequena, arbitrarily located at Ifni and given fixed frontiers. Hoping to compensate Spain for this loss of territory, France recognized unconditional Spanish sovereignty in Seigua El Hamra. In 1912 Morocco became a French Protectorate after the Treaty of Fez, which meant a final treaty regarding the Spanish possessions was now required. A final convention on 12 November 1912 demarcated the final borders between the French and Spanish Zones in Morocco. In this convention the Spanish zone was relegated to a small strip of coastline and a portion of the Rif Mountains in the North. The Spanish also lost influence in the South, only being given a protectorate over an area sandwiched between the Draa river and parallel 27\u00b0 40'. This was known as the Spanish Southern Morocco. It was separated from the \"de jure\" Spanish Ifni by French ruled territory. However it further confirmed direct Spanish sovereignty over Seigua El Hamra.\nMa El Ainin.\nDespite the vast size of the territories gained by Spain, its presence remained restricted to the settlement of Vila Cisneros and two small settlements on the Saharan coast, established in 1916 and 1920 respectively. It was the French, far more aggressive, who advanced into the Sahara and Mauritania southwards from Algeria and northwards from Senegal. In 1898, the Sahrawi marabout Ma El Ainin built the city of Smara five miles south of the Saigua El Hamra with the assistance of the Sultan of Morocco. Alarmed by the French and Spanish presence in the region, he urged the Saharan tribes to resist colonial incursions. In this endeavor he was assisted by Sultan Abd al Aziz of Morocco, who provided him arms and financial support in exchange for protecting Morocco's southern frontier. In 1905, responding to a plea from its Emir Bakar, Ma El Ainin sent his son to the Tagant region to assure him that arms would be provided from Morocco. However Bakar was killed in battle against the French in 1904. El Ainin also may have been behind the assassination of Xavier Coppolani, the French commissioner of Mauritania, at Tidjikdja on 12 May 1905. This was seen as a victory by El Ainin, who believed that the war would now go in their favor. This was followed up by a victory by forces commanded by the uncle of the Sultan, Moulay Idris, against French units in Tagant in October 1906. They began sieging the outpost of Tidjikdja, which had to be called off after a French relief column broke through in December 1906. After this defeat Ma El Ainin went to Morocco to seek additional support. However he found that the Abd al Aziz's resolve against the Europeans was weakening, seen with his acceptance of the Act of Algeciras, which placed Morocco's ports, police and finances under Franco-Spanish control. Furthermore, when the French occupied Oudja in March 1907 and French troops landed in Casablanca, he was unable to offer any resistance. This resulted in El Ainin declaring his support for the Sultan's brother Abd al Hafid when he rose in rebellion in August 1907. However El Ainin was dismayed when Abd al Hafid also recognized the Act of Algeciras in 1909. El Ainin also faced a renewed French threat to the south, as French forces under Colonel Henri Gouraud swept northwards, seizing Adrar. Ma El Ainin was forced to abandon Smara and settled in Tiznit , where he proclaimed himself Sultan in June 1910. He gathered a six thousand strong army and marched out to take the capital of Fez and depose the Sultan. However his army was defeated by French forces under on 23 June. He fled back to Tiznit and died on 28 October 1910.\nFrench victory.\nAhmed al-Hiba, one of Ma al-'Aynayn's sons, was proclaimed Sultan in 1912. Assisted by the various tribal rebellions that occurred against Abd al Hafid after he signed the Treaty of Fez in March 1912, Al Hiba marched on Marrakech. In August, he made a triumphant entry into Marrakech at the head of 10,000 men, where the notables of the city acknowledged him as Sultan. Three days before the capture of Marrakech, Abd al Hafid had abdicated and was replaced by his French supported brother, Moulay Ben Yusuf. However a French Army under Colonel Mangin defeated al Hiba on 6 September and entered Marrakech. Al Hiba fled south into the Sous, where he held out until 1913 when French troops under General Lyautey captured Agadir and Taroudant. He then fell back to the anti Atlas mountains, where a guerrilla struggle continued intermittently until 1934.\nDuring the First World War, the Germans and Turks attempted to arm the nomads against the French. A German submarine delivered weapons in 1916, but the crew was captured shortly afterward at Cape Juby by the Spanish. Al-Hiba, pushed back into the Anti-Atlas Mountains, died in 1919; his brother, Merebbi Rebbu, took command of the resistance. Throughout all this the rebels had used Spanish territory as a base from which to launch their attacks against the French in Algeria, Mauritania and Morocco, with little interference from the Spanish.\nAssertion of Spanish control.\nFrom the demarcation of the boundaries of the colony with the French, the Spanish made very little effort to expand into the interior of their nominal colony. Despite this there was an effort by Governor Francisco Bens to expand Spanish control through assuring the tribes of the peaceful intentions of the Spanish, in contrast to the aggressive French. This effort was only partially successful, with Bens occupying Tarfaya (later Vila Bens in 1946) in 1916 and La Guera in 1920. This was down mainly to a lack of support from the government in Madrid, who feared acting independently of the French and was more focused with occupying Northern Spanish Morocco. At the time of Bens' departure in 1920 there were 703 Spanish soldiers in the colony, with the bulk of them being based in Tarfaya to protect the newly built aerodrome. They were supported by six planes of the Air Force. Furthermore, in 1926 a native Saharan police force based on the French was founded. In 1932 a penal colony was founded at Vila Cisneros. After briefly considering a handover of the Sahara to the League of Nations in 1931 the Republican government of Spain pursued a more aggressive colonial policy. This can be seen with their decision to finally occupy Ifni in 1934. After occupying Ifni a detachment of Saharan auxiliaries under the command of Captain Galo Bullon and Lieutenant Carlos de la Gandara set out from Tarfaya, occupying the town of Daora on 1 May and Smara on 15 May. By the end of 1934 the Spanish had fully occupied their erstwhile colony, agreeing with the French to send out regular patrols to police the Sahrawi tribesmen.\nThe Forgotten Colony (1934\u20131958).\nAfter securing Spanish rule in 1934 the Republican government decreed that the High Commissioner for Morocco would double as the Governor General of Ifni and the Sahara. Furthermore, the budget for Ifni and Sahara would be annexed into the budget of Spanish Morocco. With the outbreak of the Spanish civil war the Delegate to the Sahara, Antonio de Oro, immediately defected to the Nationalists.\nThe Sahrawi way of life changed little under Spanish administration: they remained nomadic pastoralists with their own traditions, including customary assemblies (\"djemaa\"), and their own legal system (Islamic Sharia and customary law). The Spanish presence itself was limited to a few small towns where trade with the nomads took place. Slavery was still prevalent across the territory: this was ignored by the Spanish who wished to maintain good relations with the nomads, although escaped slaves were given asylum in the Spanish settlements. However, Spanish rule saw changes in Sahrawi society, with the end of tribal raiding resulting in prosperity for many tribes like the Oulad Tidrarin. Furthermore, tribes like Oulad Delim maintained their martial traditions by joining the Tropas Nomadas. The town of El Aai\u00fan was founded in 1938 after the discovery of a significant aquifer.\nThroughout the Spanish colonial period, Spanish settlers were few in number, never exceeding 15,000. Many worked in the fishing industry along the coast, where fish were plentiful, but they could not compete with the fishermen of the Canary Islands, who were more organized and closer to the open sea. Additionally, many Spaniards worked in the colonial administration or public works. However, the majority served in the army or the Foreign Legion, which maintained order in the territory.\nIn World War II, some in the Spanish government wanted to extend the borders of the colony into Mauritania, using the 1886 treaty with the Emir of Adrar as justification. However this did not happen due to a lack of interest and Axis reversals in Africa. In 1947, fearing Moroccan nationalism, Spain established Spanish West Africa (\"\u00c1frica Occidental Espa\u00f1ola\"), consisting of Ifni and Western Sahara. The Tarafaya strip was not included, despite the Governor General of Spanish West Africa being responsible for its administration in his role as Delegate of the High Commissioner. The only real industries were fishing and the harvesting of seaweed.\nSahrawi insurgency and Moroccan claims.\nAfter gaining independence in 1956, Morocco laid claim to Spanish Sahara as part of its historic pre-colonial territory. In 1957, the Moroccan Army of Liberation nearly occupied the small territory of Ifni, north of Spanish Sahara, during the Ifni War. The Spanish sent a regiment of paratroopers from the nearby Canary Islands and repelled the attacks. With the assistance of the French, Spain soon re-established control in the area through \"Operaciones Teide-Ecoubillon\" (Spanish name) / \"Op\u00e9rations Ecouvillon\" (French name).\nSpain tried to suppress resistance politically. It forced some of the previously nomadic inhabitants of Spanish Sahara to settle in certain areas, and the rate of urbanisation was increased. In 1958, Spain united the territories of Saguia el-Hamra and R\u00edo de Oro to form the overseas province of Spanish Sahara, while ceding the province of the Cape Juby strip (which included Villa Bens) in the same year to Morocco.\nIn the 1960s, Morocco continued to claim Spanish Sahara. It gained agreement by the United Nations to add the territory to the list of territories to be decolonised. In 1969, Spain ceded Ifni to Morocco, but continued to retain Spanish Sahara.\nIn 1967, Spanish rule was challenged by the \"Harakat Tahrir\", a Sahrawi movement created by Muhammad Bassiri. In 1970, Spain suppressed the Zemla Intifada.\nIn 1973, the Polisario Front was formed in a revival of militant Sahrawi nationalism. The Front's guerrilla army grew rapidly, and Spain lost effective control over most of the territory by early 1975. Its effort to found a political rival, the \"Partido de Uni\u00f3n Nacional Saharaui\" (PUNS), met with little success. Spain proceeded to co-opt tribal leaders by setting up the \"Djema'a\", a political institution loosely based on traditional Sahrawi tribal leaders. The \"Djema'a\" members were hand-picked by the authorities, but given privileges in return for rubber-stamping Madrid's decisions.\nMorocco asserts that the territory was under Moroccan royal sovereignty at the time when the Spanish claimed it in 1884. To back its claims the country cites two sixteenth-century treaties, the Treaty of Alc\u00e1\u00e7ovas and the Treaty of Cintra, between Spain and Portugal, where both countries recognize that the authority of Morocco extended beyond Cabo Bojador. Other treaties extending the authority further south are also raised, like the one between the Sharifian Sultanate and Spain of 1 March 1767 or the Anglo-Moroccan Agreement of 13 March 1895. However, the International Court of Justice found in their Advisory opinion on Western Sahara of 1975 that those treaties only proved ties of allegiance (Bay'ah) between this territory and the Kingdom of Morocco, and were not legal ties extending to sovereignty over the territory.\nIn the winter of 1975, just before the death of its long-time dictator Generalissimo Francisco Franco, Spain was confronted with an intensive campaign of territorial demands from Morocco and, to a lesser extent, from Mauritania. These culminated in the \"Marcha Verde\" ('Green March'), where a mass demonstration of 350,000 Moroccans coordinated by the Moroccan government advanced several kilometres into the Western Sahara territory, bypassing the International Court of Justice's \"Advisory opinion on Western Sahara\" that had been issued three weeks prior. After negotiating the Madrid Accords with Morocco and Mauritania, Spain withdrew its forces and citizens from the territory.\nMorocco and Mauritania took control of the region. Mauritania later surrendered its claim after fighting an unsuccessful war against the Polisario Front. In the process of annexing the region, Morocco started fighting the Polisario Front, and after sixteen years, the UN negotiated a cease-fire in 1991. Today, the sovereignty of the territory remains in dispute between Morocco and the Sahrawi people, and referendum has not been possible to date due to dispute over who can vote.\nPresent status.\nWestern Sahara is listed by the United Nations (UN) as a non-decolonized territory and is thus included in the United Nations list of non-self-governing territories. Under international law, Western Sahara is not a legal part of Morocco, and it remains under the international laws of military occupation. Officially, the Kingdom of Spain remains as Western Sahara's \"de jure\" administering power as affirmed by the criminal division of the Spanish National High Court ruling in 2014. This position is shared by the United Nations, the African Union, and several legal jurists. Additionally, Spain continues to administer the Western Saharan airspace.\nMoroccan settlers currently make up more than two thirds of the inhabitants of the territory. Under international law, Morocco's transfer of its own civilians into occupied territory is in direct violation of .\nUN peace efforts have been directed at holding a referendum on independence among the Sahrawi population, but this has not yet taken place. The Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic has been recognized by 84 UN member states and the African Union (of which it is a founding member)."}
{"id": "756263", "revid": "49402000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756263", "title": "Bluestone", "text": "Bluestone is a cultural or commercial name for a number of natural dimension or building stone varieties, including:\nIt is unrelated to human-made blue brick.\nStonehenge.\nThe term \"bluestone\" in Britain is used in a loose sense to cover all of the \"foreign\", not intrinsic, stones and rock debris at Stonehenge. It is a \"convenience\" label rather than a geological term, since at least 46 different rock types are represented. One of the most common rocks in the assemblage is known as Preseli spotted dolerite\u2014a chemically altered igneous rock containing spots or clusters of secondary minerals replacing plagioclase feldspar. It is a medium grained dark and heavy rock, harder than granite. \nPreseli bluestone tools, such as axes, have been discovered elsewhere within the British Isles. Many of them appear to have been made in or near Stonehenge, since there are petrographic similarities with some of the spotted dolerites there. The bluestones at Stonehenge were first used there during the third phase of construction at Stonehenge around 2300 BC. It is assumed that there were about 80 monoliths originally, but this has never been proven since only 43 remain. The stones are estimated to weigh between 2 and 4 tons each. The majority of them are believed to have come from the Preseli Hills, about away in Wales, either through glaciation (glacial erratic theory) or through humans organizing their transportation.\nGlacial erratic theory.\nA summary of the major aspects of the Stonehenge \"bluestone conundrum\" was published in 2008. In 2018 a book devoted specifically to the problem of bluestone provenance and transport concluded that the Stonehenge bluestones are essentially an ill-sorted assemblage of glacial erratics. Much further research into the origin of the bluestones has been published between 2012 and 2022 particularly by geologists Richard Bevins and Rob Ixer. If a glacier transported the stones, then it must have been the Irish Sea Glacier. In support of the glacial erratic theory, researchers reporting in 2015 found no firm evidence of quarrying at Rhosyfelin in the Preselis. However, in such event, one might expect to find other bluestone boulders or slabs near the Stonehenge site, but no such bluestones (apart from fragments) have been found.\nHuman transport theory.\nThe archaeological find of the Boscombe Bowmen has been cited in support of the human transport theory. Preseli Bluestone dolerite axe heads have been found around the Preseli Hills as well, indicating that there was a population who knew how to work with the stones, In 2015, researchers claimed that some of the stones at Stonehenge came from Neolithic quarries at Carn Goedog and Craig Rhos-y-felin in the Preseli Hills. The quarrying hypothesis has been hotly disputed by Brian John, Dyfed Elis-Gruffydd and John Downes, whose own detailed research led to the conclusion that the so-called quarrying features were all natural, created over a long period of glacial and periglacial landscape change. Further, no independent evidence has ever been found to support the thesis of long overland or sea transport of Preseli bluestones from Wales to Salisbury Plain.\nAustralia.\nThere are three distinct building materials called \"bluestone\" in Australia.\nVictoria.\nIn Victoria, what is known as bluestone is a basalt or olivine basalt. It was one of the favoured building materials during the Victorian Gold Rush period of the 1850s. In Melbourne, it was extracted from quarries throughout the inner northern suburbs, such as Clifton Hill, Brunswick and Coburg, where the quarry used to source the stone for Pentridge Prison is now Coburg Lake. Bluestone was also sourced in many other regions of the Victorian volcanic plains, and used in towns and cities in the state's central and western regions, including Ballarat, Geelong, Kyneton, Port Fairy and Portland. It is still quarried at a number of places around the state.\nBluestone is a very hard material and therefore difficult to work, so it was predominantly used for warehouses, miscellaneous walls, and the foundations of buildings. However, a number of significant bluestone buildings exist, including the Old Melbourne Gaol, Pentridge Prison, St Patrick's Cathedral, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne Grammar School, Deaf Children Australia and Victorian College for the Deaf, Vision Australia, the Goldsbrough Mort warehouses (Bourke Street) and the Timeball Tower at Williamstown, as well as St Mary's Basilica in Geelong. Some examples of other major structures that use bluestone include Princes Bridge, the adjacent Federation Wharf, and Hawthorn Bridge. Because of its distinctive qualities, post-modern Melbourne buildings have also made use of bluestone for nostalgic reasons. They include the Southgate complex and the promenade in Southbank, Victoria.\nBluestone was used extensively as cobblestone, and for kerbs and gutters, many examples of which still exist in Melbourne's smaller city lanes, and 19th-century inner-suburban streets and lanes. Crushed bluestone aggregate, known as \"blue metal\" (or \"bluemetal\"), is used extensively in Victoria as railway ballast, as road base, and in making concrete. Combined with bitumen, it is used as a road surfacing material.\nSouth Australia.\nIn South Australia, the name bluestone is given to a form of slate which is much less durable than Victorian bluestone, but was valued for its decorative appearance. The interior of the stone is usually pale grey or beige in colour, but is given attractively coloured surfaces by ferric oxide and other minerals deposited in joints and bedding planes. The slate is laid in masonry with the mineralised surfaces exposed. Bluestone was most popular from about the 1850s to the 1920s, quarried in the Adelaide Hills at Dry Creek, O'Halloran Hill (formerly Tapley's Hill) and Glen Osmond, as well as a number of other places in rural areas.\nTasmania.\nIn Tasmania, the name bluestone is given to dolerite (diabase), which is a dominant stone variety in the landscape, and used in a variety of building roles.\nNew Zealand.\nTimaru bluestone (also known as Port Chalmers bluestone) is an attractive building material, used both historically and to the present. It is a grey basalt similar to Victorian bluestone, quarried near Timaru in the South Island. Bluestone from near Kokonga in Central Otago is also widely used, and is the main construction material (often with facing of Oamaru stone, a local compact limestone) in many of the notable historic buildings in the southern South Island, most of which were constructed during the financial boom following the Otago gold rush. Prominent structures to use this combination include Otago University Registry Building, Dunedin Law Courts, and Dunedin Railway Station. Similar construction using Timaru bluestone was used for Christchurch Arts Centre.\nUnited States and Canada.\nThere are two distinct building materials called \"bluestone\" in the United States, one of which is also found in Canada.\nBluestone from Pennsylvania and New York is a sandstone defined as feldspathic greywacke. The sand-sized grains from which bluestone is constituted were deposited in the Catskill Delta during the Middle to Upper Devonian Period of the Paleozoic Era, approximately 370 to 345 million years ago. The Catskill Delta was created from runoff from the Acadian Mountains (\"Ancestral Appalachians\"). This delta ran in a narrow band from southwest to northeast and today provides the bluestone quarried from the Catskill Mountains and Northeastern Pennsylvania. The term \"bluestone\" is derived from a deep-blue-colored sandstone first found in Ulster County, New York. It can, however, appear in many other hues, mostly shades of grays and browns. Bluestone quarrying is of particular value to the economy of Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. The Starrucca Viaduct, finished in 1848, is an example of Pennsylvania bluestone as a building material. Bluestone is quarried in western New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and eastern New York. It is also quarried in the Canadian Appalachians near Deer Lake in Western Newfoundland. The Pennsylvania Bluestone Association has 105 members, the vast majority of them quarriers. \nThe other, lesser known, type of American \"bluestone\" is a blue-tinted limestone abundant in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia. It is a limestone formed during the Ordovician Period approximately 450 to 500 million years ago, at the bottom of a relatively shallow ocean that covered what is today Rockingham County, Virginia. The limestone that accumulated there was darker in color than most other limestone deposits because it was in deeper waters exposed to less light. The darker blue color resulted in limestone from this region being dubbed \"bluestone\" and with two sequences measuring about thick, it gives the area one of the largest limestone deposits in the world. The stone eventually fades from a deep blue to a light grey after prolonged exposure to sun and rain. Given the abundance of the stone in the Rockingham County area, the first settlers used it as foundations and chimneys for their houses. When James Madison University was built, the local bluestone was used to construct the buildings because of its high quality and cultural heritage."}
{"id": "756265", "revid": "205121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756265", "title": "Rebecca DeMornay", "text": ""}
{"id": "756267", "revid": "679161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756267", "title": "Katran (Myst)", "text": ""}
{"id": "756271", "revid": "37005538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756271", "title": "Mount Street Gardens", "text": "With its very own and UK first Nature Sacred Garden, Landscaper Alessandro McMillan and driving force Lady Anne Gray. The grand ceremony was held with dignitaries from local Mayfair and the surrounding London City.\nMount Street Gardens is a public garden off Mount Street in the west of the Mayfair area of London, England. The gardens were created in 1889 out of a former burial ground of St George's, Hanover Square, and named after the Mount Field, an area including a fortification dating from the English Civil War named Oliver's Mount.\nSeveral structures in and adjacent to the gardens are listed Grade II on the National Heritage List for England. These include the fountain, two cisterns, and the two K2 telephone kiosks and the Portland stone gate piers with lamps at the entrance by South Audley Street.\nBurial ground and workhouse.\nThe land was originally sold by Sir Richard Grosvenor, 4th Bart. to the Commission for Building Fifty New Churches in 1723 as part of his development of the area around Mount Street, to serve as a burial ground for the parish church, St. George's, located in Hanover Square. Beside the burial ground, on South Audley Street, was planned the Grosvenor Chapel, but this was not built until 7 years after the burial ground was laid out, in 1730.\nTo the north of the ground, the site of what is now 103 Mount Street, was the parish's workhouse, wherein the poor were given work, board, and lodgings, built in 1725 and then enlarged in the 1780s to provide room for the parish watchmen's watch-house and the parish office.\nIn the 1850s, Parliament passed a series of Burial Acts by which burial grounds in central London, such as that of St. George's, were to be closed due to health risks. The parish's other burial ground, on Bayswater Road, closed shortly afterwards, and the City of Westminster Cemetery, Hanwell in west London was used instead.\nAs the population of London grew, so did the demand upon the workhouse, and it became so overcrowded that in 1871 the decision was taken to move the workhouse to a new site, spurred on also by plans to widen Mount Street. In 1883, some land for the new workhouse on Buckingham Palace Road was bought from the new Duke of Westminster, Hugh Grosvenor, thricely-great-grandnephew of the Baronet who originally sold the site of the burial ground, and paupers were transferred both to there and the parish's other workhouse at Little Chelsea on the Fulham Road, with the workhouse finally being demolished in 1886 and converted into more parish offices.\nDevelopment as a public space.\nAfter the demolition of the workhouse, the whole area was somewhat redeveloped; Carlos Place (then named Charles Street) was to be extended to the south of Mount Street over the site of the workhouse's chapel for access to the Church of the Immaculate Conception on Farm Street. The church, built between 1844 and 1849, was in a decorated gothic-style, designed by Joseph John Scoles, and with the altar by A. W. N. Pugin, and is now a Grade II* listed building. However, the new road planned through the disused burial ground was never built.\nThe gardens' footpaths are those originally created in 1889, and the bronze drinking fountain of a rearing horse was designed for the local estate agent Henry Lofts in 1891 by Harold Peto and Sir Ernest George, who was also the designer of 104-111 Mount Street. As of 2005, the fountain is largely removed for restoration.\nThe gravestones had been removed to the gardens' tool shed, but when the shed itself was demolished in 1931 to make way for the Mayfair telephone exchange between the gardens and Farm Street, the City Engineer's office made a copy of the inscriptions, now stored in City of Westminster Archives Centre, along with other records from the Parish.\nThe paths in the gardens are lined with benches, many of which have been donated by the families of US citizens who have enjoyed the gardens whilst based at the nearby US embassy and other US institutions nearby.\nFlora and fauna.\nThe garden has a number of London plane (\"Platanus \u00d7 hispanica\") trees, the predominant tree throughout central London due to their ability to cope with the capital's formerly heavily polluted air. Other trees, some able to grow only due to the gardens' sheltered spot and warm climate, include an Australian silver wattle (\"Acacia dealbata\") and a Canary Islands date palm (\"Phoenix canariensis\"), three dawn redwood (\"Metasequola glyptostroboides\") from south-east China, and a form of twisted willow, \"Salix matsudana\" 'Tortuosa', from northern China, as well as a chusan palm (\"Trachycarpus fortunei\"), a common palm in the UK due to its hardiness.\nUnderneath these trees are planted a number of shrubs, most noticeably laurels (\"Aucuba japonica\") and hollies (such as \"Ilex aquifolium\"), and several camellias (\"Camellia japonica\") and a \"Fatsia japonica\".\nThe gardens provides homes for a number of birds, including great tits, robins, magpies, blackbirds and goldcrests."}
{"id": "756275", "revid": "494861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756275", "title": "Alfonso IX of Castile", "text": ""}
{"id": "756278", "revid": "14423536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756278", "title": "Bladderwrack", "text": ""}
{"id": "756279", "revid": "4208718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756279", "title": "Geordan Murphy", "text": "Geordan Edward Andrew Murphy (born 19 April 1978) is an Irish rugby union rugby coach and player who retired from the professional game as the most-decorated man in Premiership Rugby history. He played as fullback or wing for the Irish international team and the English club Leicester Tigers as well as for the British &amp; Irish Lions.\nYouth.\nMurphy was born in Dublin, Ireland. He was officially named George after his father but his mother called him Geordan to avoid confusion. His five brothers and sister all played rugby union. Murphy was educated at Newbridge College, Newbridge, County Kildare before attending Waterford Institute of Technology and De Montfort University in Leicester.\nMurphy played Gaelic football at Minor (U18) level with Kildare GAA in the All-Ireland Minor Football Championship.\nPlaying career.\nIn 1997 shortly before he joined Leicester Tigers, Murphy gained his first U19 cap for Ireland, playing his club rugby with Naas. He gradually made his way into the Tigers' first team squad, while gaining caps for Ireland U21. Opportunities at fullback were limited by the presence of Tim Stimpson, but he gained a place on the right wing. Murphy started in both of Leicester's back-to-back Heineken Cup final wins in 2001 and 2002, scoring a try in the latter final. He also helped Leicester win four Premiership trophies in a row in 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002.\nMurphy broke his leg in Ireland's last warm-up game against Scotland at Murrayfield prior to the 2003 Rugby Union World Cup and did not compete. Two years later, however, he toured New Zealand with the British &amp; Irish Lions, gaining two Test caps against Argentina and the All Blacks.\nMurphy won his fifth Premiership medal in 2007, starting the final as Leicester defeated Gloucester.\nAs he matured, Murphy preferred full back over wing. His main rivals for the Ireland full back starting position were Girvan Dempsey and Rob Kearney. In his autobiography he stated that he had a poor working relationship with former Ireland Coach Eddie O'Sullivan mainly because he played for an English team. Murphy was named as the starting full back for Ireland in the crucial game against Argentina on 22 November 2008, and scored one of Ireland's two tries in that game.\nHe was a member of the Ireland team that won the 2009 Six Nations Championship and Grand Slam. In May 2009, Murphy was named in the Barbarians squad to play England and Australia along with Ireland teammate Gordon D'Arcy.\nHe took over the Tigers captaincy on the field in the 2008/09 season, when club captain Martin Corry was not in the team, and led them to two finals that season \u2013 Heineken Cup and English Premiership, the latter of which they won. The following season, he was named official club captain, though missed out on much of the season due to injury. He returned in February, to lead the team to a successive Guinness Premiership title, when the Tigers beat Saracens 33\u201327 in the final.\nMurphy was chosen to captain Ireland against the in June 2010. On 11 September Murphy was picked to start in the first match of the 2011 Rugby World Cup since Rob Kearney was injured. Ireland won the game 22\u201310 against the United States. He came on then to replace Keith Earls in the Russia game.\nIn May 2012, Murphy announced his retirement from international rugby, and in May 2013, retired from playing all forms of the game after collecting the eighth Premiership title of his career, though he did not play in the Final win over Northampton that season.\nCoaching.\nMurphy joined the staff as an assistant coach at Leicester from the 2013\u201314 season onwards. He masterminded Tigers winning of the 2016\u201317 Anglo-Welsh Cup, the first Tigers trophy won in the period Murphy was part of the coaching team.\nHe acted as head coach for the September 2017 game versus Bath as new head coach Matt O'Connor had only just arrived.\nMurphy was placed in formal interim charge of Leicester Tigers on 3 September 2018 following the sacking of O'Connor. This position was made permanent in December 2018.\nHe was promoted to director of rugby on 1 July 2020 with the appointment of Steve Borthwick as head coach.\nHis contract was terminated ahead of the 2020\u201321 season.\nHe took up the role of Director of Rugby Performance at Stamford School in August 2025.\nHonours.\nLeicester:\n2x European (Heineken) Cup- 2001, 2002\n8x Gallagher Premiership- 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2009, 2010, 2013\n2x Anglo-Welsh Cup- 2007, 2012\nIreland:\n1x Six Nations Championship- 2009"}
{"id": "756280", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756280", "title": "John Orde, 1st Baron of Morpeth", "text": ""}
{"id": "756281", "revid": "20957809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756281", "title": "Ram\u00f3n Castro (third baseman)", "text": "Ram\u00f3n Alfredo Castro Mu\u00f1oz (born October 23, 1979) is a retired Venezuelan infielder. He has played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Oakland Athletics.\nBaseball career.\nAtlanta Braves.\nCastro was originally signed as a free agent with the Atlanta Braves in 1996. After six years in their minor league system, he was granted free agency.\nOakland Athletics.\nCastro signed with the Oakland Athletics in 2003. He was called up from the Triple-A Sacramento River Cats and made his MLB debut on June 22, 2004, as a Pinch Hitter for Bobby Crosby. He played in his final game as a Defensive Replacement at Shortstop for Bobby Crosby for the Athletics a month later on July 26, 2004. He Wore #47 &amp; played in nine games for the Athletics. With Sacramento, Castro batted .233 (27-for-116) with one home run, 15 RBI, 15 runs, eight doubles, two triples and one stolen base. With the Athletics, he hit .133 (2-for-15) with three RBI, one run, and one double in nine games.\nWashington Nationals.\nIn 2005, Castro played in the Washington Nationals organization, but was suspended 105 games in July and fined an undisclosed amount for violating the steroids policy.\nNewark Bears.\nHe previously played for the Newark Bears from 2007 to 2008, being named the Most Valuable Player of the 2008 Atlantic League All-Star Game after hitting two home runs. In 2008, he hit .352 with 23 home runs and 84 RBI.\nSan Francisco Giants.\nOn June 26, 2009, Castro signed a minor league contract with the San Francisco Giants.\nGuerreros de Oaxaca.\nHe played in five games with the Guerreros de Oaxaca in 2010.\nYork Revolution.\nCastro set Revolution season records in 2010 with a .339 batting average, 37 doubles and a .437 on-base percentage, ranking second in the Atlantic League in all three categories. His performance earned him First Team Atlantic League All-Star honors for the third time in his career. The Valencia, Venezuela native also had a 68-game errorless streak from May 15, 2010, through July 29, 2010. Then, he went on to bat .375 in the 2010 postseason. His final highlight was driving in the championship-clinching run on a tenth-inning sacrifice fly during Game 3 of the Atlantic League Championship Series at Bridgeport Bluefish.\nRimini Baseball Club (IBL).\nCastro batted .328 (397-for-1396) in 1,396 Atlantic League games before joining the Rimini Baseball Club of the Italian Baseball League in 2013.\nBridgeport Bluefish.\nCastro signed with the Bridgeport Bluefish for the 2014 season. Castro played in 127 games for the Bluefish.\nKansas City Royals.\nOn March 24, 2015, Castro signed a minor league deal with the Kansas City Royals. He did not make an appearance for the organization and elected free agency following the season on November 6."}
{"id": "756284", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756284", "title": "Barbary treaties", "text": "The Barbary Treaties refer to several treaties between the United States and the semi-autonomous North African regencies of Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli, under the rule of the Ottoman Empire, known collectively as the Barbary Coast."}
{"id": "756285", "revid": "4145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756285", "title": "UnitedLinux", "text": ""}
{"id": "756286", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756286", "title": "List of controversial articles", "text": ""}
{"id": "756288", "revid": "2766075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756288", "title": "Tristam (disambiguation)", "text": "Tristam is an alternative name for Tristan, the male hero of the Arthurian Tristan and Iseult story.\nTristam may also refer to:"}
{"id": "756290", "revid": "51661417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756290", "title": "Entrenched clause", "text": "An entrenched clause or entrenchment clause of a constitution is a provision that makes certain amendments either more difficult or impossible to pass. Overriding an entrenched clause may require a supermajority, a referendum, or the consent of the minority party. The term eternity clause is used in a similar manner in the constitutions of Brazil, the Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, India, Iran, Italy, Morocco, Norway, and Turkey, but specifically applies to an entrenched clause that can never be overridden. However, if a constitution provides for a mechanism of its own abolition or replacement, like the German Basic Law does in Article 146, this by necessity provides a \"back door\" for getting rid of the \"eternity clause\", too. \nAny amendment to a constitution that would not satisfy the prerequisites enshrined in a valid entrenched clause would lead to so-called \"unconstitutional constitutional law\"\u2014that is, an amendment to constitutional law text that appears constitutional by its form, albeit unconstitutional due to the procedure used to enact it or due to the content of its provisions.\nEntrenched clauses are, in some cases, seen as justified as protecting the rights of a minority from the dangers of majoritarianism. In other cases, the objective may be to prevent amendments to the constitution that would pervert the fundamental principles it enshrines. However, entrenched clauses are often challenged by their opponents as being undemocratic.\nAfrica.\nAlgeria.\nThe Algerian Constitution of 2016 contains clauses about the term limit and the duration of the presidential term.\nEgypt.\nArticle 226 of the Constitution of Egypt, defining the amendment procedure, ends with an entrenched clause stating that \"In all cases, texts pertaining to the re-election of the president of the republic or the principles of freedom and equality stipulated in this Constitution may not be amended, unless the amendment brings more guarantees.\"\nThis clause failed to block the 2019 amendments that replaced the hard two-term limit for presidents with a consecutive one, and the modification of the term's duration from four to six years. The article also failed to block a new article from being added that excludes incumbent president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi from the two consecutive terms constraint, enabling him to run for a third term.\nMorocco.\nIn the Constitution of Morocco, eternity clauses exist that ensure certain provisions cannot be amended, including the role of Islam in the nation's law, and the role of the King of Morocco in law.\nSouth Africa.\nThere are several examples of entrenched clauses that ultimately failed in their objectives, since their protections were undermined in unintended ways. For instance, the South Africa Act 1909, the initial constitution of the Union of South Africa, contained entrenchment clauses protecting voting rights in the Cape Province, including those of some Coloureds, that required two-thirds of a joint session of parliament to be repealed. The Coloureds, however, later lost their voting rights after the Government restructured the Senate and packed it with its sympathisers so that they were able to achieve said supermajority in what is known as the Coloured vote constitutional crisis.\nTunisia.\nThe Tunisian Constitution of 2014 prohibits amending the constitution to change the duration of a presidential term or the maximum number of terms an individual can serve.\nAmericas.\nBrazil.\nEntrenched clauses of the Constitution of Brazil are listed in Article 60, Paragraph 4:\nThere are other clauses that implicitly cannot be amended, mostly because they are dependent of the subjects above.\nCanada.\nThe amendment formula for the Constitution of Canada (sections 38\u201349 of the Constitution Act, 1982) contains multiple levels of entrenchment, but the issues most firmly entrenched (which can only be changed by the federal government with the unanimous consent of all provinces) under section 41 are the monarchy, each province's minimum allocation of representatives in Parliament, English-French bilingualism, the composition of the Supreme Court of Canada, and section 41 itself.\nHonduras.\nThe Constitution of Honduras has an article stating that the article itself and certain other articles cannot be changed in any circumstances. Article 374 of the Honduras Constitution asserts this unmodifiability, stating, \"It is not possible to reform, in any case, the preceding article, the present article, the constitutional articles referring to the form of government, to the national territory, to the presidential period, the prohibition to serve again as President of the Republic, the citizen who has performed under any title in consequence of which she/he cannot be President of the Republic in the subsequent period.\" This unmodifiable article played an important role in the 2009 Honduran constitutional crisis.\nUnited States.\nArticle V of the United States Constitution temporarily shielded certain clauses in Article I from being amended. The first clause in Section 9, which prevented Congress from passing any law that would restrict the importation of slaves prior to 1808, and the fourth clause in that same section, a declaration that direct taxes must be apportioned according to the state populations, were explicitly shielded from constitutional amendment prior to 1808.\nArticle V also shields the clause of Article I, Section 3, which provides for equal representation of the states in the United States Senate, from being amended. This has been interpreted to require unanimous ratification of any amendment altering the composition of the Senate. However, the text of the clause would indicate that the size of the Senate could be changed by an ordinary amendment if each state continued to have equal representation. Alternatively, Article V theoretically could be amended to remove such an entrenched clause designation, and then the clause could be amended itself.\nThe Crittenden Compromise and Corwin Amendment, both proposed in the months leading up to the Civil War but never passed, would have enshrined slavery in the Constitution and prevented Congress from interfering with it.\nAsia and Oceania.\nAustralia.\nAs Australian Parliaments have inherited the British principle of parliamentary sovereignty, they may not entrench themselves by a regular act. Therefore, the entrenchment of the national flag in the \"Flags Act\" of 1953 is without force as the entrenchment clause could be removed (through normal legislative amendment) by later parliaments.\nThe Commonwealth Constitution is entrenched as it may only be amended by referendum; the amendment must gain the support of a majority of Australian voters nationwide, plus a majority of voters in a majority of states. These provisions are specified in section 128. The Imperial Parliament's power to amend it in Australian law was limited by the \"Statute of Westminster Adoption Act\" 1942 and terminated by the \"Australia Act\" 1986.\nState laws respecting the constitution, powers or procedure of the parliament of a state need to follow any restrictions specified in state law on such acts, by virtue of section 6 of the \"Australia Act\". This power does not extend to the whole constitution of the state, and the Parliament of Queensland has ignored entrenchments in amending its constitution. Consequently, it is possible that the entrenchment clauses are not entrenchable, preventing state law from having effectively entrenching clauses.\nIndia.\nThe Supreme Court in 1973 has developed the basic structure doctrine which holds that certain features of the constitution are fundamental in nature and cannot be modified through parliamentary amendment. The Supreme Court defined the constituents of the components of the basic structure as \nIndonesia.\nArticle 37 on Chapter 16 of the Constitution of Indonesia governs the constitutional amendment procedure, yet it also specifies that the status of Indonesia as a unitary state is unmodifiable. The Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Defense as well as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also stated within the Constitution to not be dissolvable.\nIran.\nThe final Article of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Art. 177, ensures that particular aspects of the Constitution are unalterable. These include the Islamic character of the government and laws, the objectives of the republic, the democratic character of the government, \"the absolute wilayat al-'amr and the leadership of the Ummah\", the administration of the country by referendum, and the role of Islam as the state religion.\nMalaysia.\nAnother example of entrenchment would be the entrenching of portions of the Malaysian Constitution related to the Malaysian social contract, which specifies that citizenship be granted to the substantial Chinese and Indian immigrant populations in return for the recognition of a special position for the indigenous Malay majority. The Constitution did not initially contain an entrenched clause; indeed, one of the articles later entrenched, Article 153, was initially intended to be subject to a sunset clause. However, after the May 13 incident of racial rioting in 1969, Parliament passed the Constitution (Amendment) Act 1971. The Act permitted criminalisation of the questioning of Articles 152, 153, 181, and Part III of the Constitution.\nArticle 152 designates the Malay language as the national language of Malaysia; Article 153 grants the Malays special privileges; Article 181 covers the position of the Malay rulers; and Part III deals with matters of citizenship. The restrictions, which even covered Members of Parliament, made the repeal of these sections of the Constitution unamendable or repealable by \"de facto\"; however, to entrench them further, the Act also amended Article 159(5), which covers Constitutional amendments, to prohibit the amending of the aforementioned Articles, as well as Article 159(5), without the consent of the Conference of Rulers \u2014 a non-elected body comprising the rulers of the Malay states and the governors of the other states.\nNew Zealand.\nSection 268 of the Electoral Act (part of the constitution of New Zealand) declares that the law governing the maximum term of Parliament, along with certain provisions of the Electoral Act relating to the redistribution of electoral boundaries, the voting age, and the secret ballot, may only be altered either by three-quarters of the entire membership of the House of Representatives, or by a majority of valid votes in a popular referendum. \nHowever, Section 268 is not itself protected by this provision, so a government could legally repeal Section 268 and go on to alter the entrenched portions of law, both with a simple majority in Parliament.\nSri Lanka.\nIn Sri Lanka, the Constitution includes entrenched provisions that require both a two-thirds majority in Parliament and a nationwide referendum for amendment. These entrenched provisions, specified in Article 83 of the Constitution, include the following:\nTurkey.\nArticle 4 of the Constitution of Turkey states that the \"provision of Article 1 of the Constitution establishing the form of the state as a Republic, the provisions in Article 2 on the characteristics of the Republic, and the provision of Article 3 shall not be amended, nor shall their amendment be proposed.\"\nEurope.\nBosnia and Herzegovina.\nArticle X of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, defining the amendment procedure, provides in paragraph 2 that the rights and freedoms as established in Article II of the Constitution may not be eliminated or diminished, and that the paragraph 2 itself may not be altered.\nCzech Republic.\nArticle 9 of the Czech Constitution, which concerns supplementing and amending the Constitution, states that \"the substantive requisites of the democratic, law-abiding State may not be amended\". This provision was invoked in 2009 when the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic struck down a Constitutional Act adopted to invoke a one-off early legislative election. The disputed Act was judged to be an individual decision in violation of then-effective constitutional procedure regulating early elections.\nThe Constitution also contains an explicit eternity clause whereby the Constitutional Court is the ultimate arbiter of the effect of European law on the Constitution.\nEstonia.\nArticle 1 of Estonian Constitution states that \"The independence and sovereignty of Estonia are timeless and inalienable.\" As part of Chapter 1 of the Constitution, this provision may only be changed by a referendum (and such a referendum could only be organized after obtaining a 3/5 supermajority in the parliament). This provision, however, does not prevent Estonia from being a member of the European Union and delegating some of its decision-making power to central EU institutions as long as \"fundamental constitutional principles\" are not breached (according to the special Constitution Amendment Act passed on a referendum in 2003).\nFrance.\nThe French Constitution states in Title XVI, Article 89, On Amendments to the Constitution, \"The republican form of government shall not be the object of any amendment\" thus forbidding the restoration of the monarchy or the empire.\nGermany.\nThe German eternity clause (German: \"Ewigkeitsklausel\") is Article 79 paragraph (3) of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany (German: \"Grundgesetz\"). The eternity clause establishes that certain fundamental principles of Germany's democracy can never be removed, even by parliament. The fundamental principles, (i.e., \"the basic principles\" of Articles 1 and 20), are as follows:\nThe original purpose of this eternity clause was to ensure that the establishment of any dictatorship in Germany would be clearly illegal; in legal practice the clause was used by plaintiffs at the Federal Constitutional Court challenging constitutional amendments that affected Articles 1, 10, 19, 101, and 103 regarding restrictions of legal recourse. Although these basic principles are protected from being repealed, their particular expression may still be amended, such as to clarify, extend or refine an entrenched principle.\nThe \"Parlamentarischer Rat\" (Parliamentary Council) included the eternity clause in its Basic Law specifically to prevent a new \"legal\" pathway to a dictatorship as was the case in the Weimar Republic with the Enabling Act of 1933 and Article 48 of the Weimar Constitution.\nIt is not lawful for any political party, any legislation or any national commitment to violate \"the basic principles\" of \"this Basic Law\" laid down in Articles 1 and 20. Furthermore, the only way that Articles 1 and 20 can be removed is through Article 146, which requires \"a constitution that is adopted by a free decision of the German People\". So long as the principles of Articles 1 and 20 are retained, they may be amended (as Article 20 has indeed been amended to establish a 'right of resistance'), but the full protection of the eternity clause does not extend to such amendments.\nUnlike the Weimar Constitution, which made human rights only an objective, the eternity clause and Articles 1 and 20 make specific demands of \"all state authority\" regarding \"human rights\" (that is, \"the basic rights\" guaranteed in \"this Basic Law\") and have established specific legislative, executive and judicial organs in \"the constitutional order\" of \"this Basic Law\", each with separate functions bound by the law. These are \"the basic principles\" of the democratic rule of law (German: \"Rechtsstaat\") and the separation of powers, which are principles endorsed by three United Nations resolutions.\nGreece.\nThe Greek eternity clause is Article 110 of the Greek Constitution. This article states that every article of the Constitution can be revised by the Parliament, with the exception of the fundamental ones, which establish Greece as a parliamentary republic and those of articles 2 paragraph 1, article 4 paragraphs 1, 4 and 7, article 5 paragraphs 1 and 3, article 13 paragraph 1 and article 26. These fundamental articles include:\nIreland.\nThe Constitution of the Irish Free State was required in parts to be consistent with the 1922 Anglo-Irish Treaty, including the Oath of Allegiance and the Governor-General. The checks to protect this were removed by, for example, the Irish taking control of advice to the Governor-General, and when the Senate proved obstructive, its abolition.\nIn debate surround 2018 relaxation of abortion laws there were proposals to entrench certain aspects of the legislation, which was deemed unconstitutional. An attempt to overturn the 34th Amendment to the constitution on the basis that amendments were impermissible if they contradicted other provisions of the constitution was rejected by the Court of Appeal.\nItaly.\nArticle 139 of the Constitution of Italy, which came into effect in 1948, provides that the republican form of government shall not be a matter for constitutional amendment.\nPortugal.\nIn the Constitution of Portugal, an eternity clause exists in the form of article 288. Titled \"Material limits on revision\", it provides that the following can never be removed through amendment:\nRomania.\nOn Title VII, Article 152, the Constitution of Romania lists the limits of revision:\nSpain.\nMost of the body of the Constitution of Spain can be modified by a three-fifths majority of both chambers of the Cortes Generales, or an absolute majority of the Senate and a two-thirds majority of the Congress of Deputies if the first method of approval fails.\nHowever, modifications of the Preliminary Title (sovereignty and constitutional principles), the First Section of the First Title (fundamental rights and liberties of the Spaniards), or the Second Title (the Monarchy), as well as drafting a full new Constitution replacing the current, would require a two-thirds majority of both chambers, an immediate new general election, a two-thirds majority of the newly elected chambers, and a final referendum.\nConstitutional amendments cannot be introduced during wartime or a state of emergency.\nUkraine.\nOn Article 157, the Constitution of Ukraine says:\nThe Constitution of Ukraine shall not be amended, if the amendments foresee the abolition or restriction of human and citizens' rights and freedoms, or if they are oriented toward the liquidation of the independence or violation of the territorial indivisibility of Ukraine.\nThe Constitution of Ukraine shall not be amended in conditions of martial law or a state of emergency.\nUnited Kingdom.\nThe doctrine of parliamentary supremacy holds that Parliament may pass any law it wishes, with the exception that it cannot bind its successors (or be limited by its predecessors). Moreover, the UK's constitution is uncodified, being contained instead in informal conventions, standing orders of the two Houses of Parliament, and ordinary legislation (in particular Acts of Parliament). Therefore, the constitution is unentrenched as previous legislation can be amended by the passing of statute, requiring a simple majority vote in the House of Commons.\nNotions of entrenchment have emerged in consideration of a number of constitutional statutes, including the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949. (See \"R (Jackson) v Attorney General\" [2005] UKHL 56.)\nAndrew Blick, Senior Lecturer in Politics at King's College London, argues that the use of a supermajority requirement for the House of Commons in the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 represents a move towards entrenched clauses in the UK Constitution. Nevertheless, after failing to secure the required supermajority for an election in 2019, the government passed the Early Parliamentary General Election Act 2019, which only required a simple majority, to override the act and call an early general election. The Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 was subsequently repealed and replaced by the Dissolution and Calling of Parliament Act 2022, which deleted the supermajority requirement altogether and reinstated the government's power to call an election at will.\nCompany law.\nProvisions may also be entrenched in the constitutions of corporate bodies. An example is in the memoranda and articles of a company limited by guarantee, in which the principles of common ownership may be entrenched. This practice can make it almost impossible for the company's members to dissolve the company and distribute its assets amongst them. This idea has more recently been extended in the UK through the invention of the community interest company (CIC), which incorporates an asset lock. Other companies in the UK may make provision for entrenchment of certain articles so that, for example, the specified articles may only be amended or repealed by agreement of all the members of the company or by a court order. In India there is similar provision in section 5 of the Companies Act 2013."}
{"id": "756292", "revid": "196153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756292", "title": "Sir Tristam", "text": ""}
{"id": "756295", "revid": "114797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756295", "title": "Arthurian legends", "text": ""}
{"id": "756297", "revid": "1008048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756297", "title": "Chamique Holdsclaw", "text": "Chamique Shaunta Holdsclaw (born August 9, 1977) is an American former professional basketball player in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). She announced her retirement from the Los Angeles Sparks on June 11, 2007, though she eventually came out of retirement to play with the Atlanta Dream for the 2009 WNBA Season. Holdsclaw was inducted into the NYC Basketball Hall of Fame in 2015, and the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame in 2018.\nEarly life.\nHoldsclaw grew up playing basketball. While attending Christ the King Regional High School in Queens, New York, she played for the school's women's basketball team, and led them to four straight New York State Championships in basketball. Holdsclaw was named a High School All-American by the Women's Basketball Coaches Association (WBCA). She participated in the WBCA High School All-America Game in 1995, scoring eight points.\nCollege career.\nHoldsclaw went to the University of Tennessee from 1995 to 1999, where she played under coach Pat Summitt and helped to lead the Lady Vols to the women's NCAA's first ever three consecutive Women's Basketball Championships in 1996, 1997 and 1998. The 1998 championship was Tennessee's first ever undefeated season at 39\u20130 and also set an NCAA record for the most wins ever in a season. She also helped lead Tennessee to two SEC regular season titles in 1998 and 1999 and to three SEC tournament championships in 1996, 1998 and 1999.\nAt Tennessee, Holdsclaw was a four-time Kodak All-America, one of only six women's basketball players to earn the honor (along with teammate Tamika Catchings, Cheryl Miller of USC, Ann Meyers of UCLA, Lynette Woodard of Kansas and LaToya Thomas of Mississippi State.) Holdsclaw finished her career with 3,025 points and 1,295 rebounds, making her the all-time leading scoring and rebounder at Tennessee in men's or women's history, the all-time leading scorer and rebounder in SEC women's history, and the all-time leading scorer and rebounder in the NCAA tournament women's history with 470 points and 197 rebounds. She was also only the fifth women's basketball player in NCAA history to have 3,000 points (a list including Jackie Stiles of Southwest Missouri State, Patricia Hoskins of Mississippi Valley State, Lorri Bauman of Drake, Cheryl Miller of USC, and Cindy Blodgett of Maine). She is also one of five women's collegiate basketball players to ever accumulate over 2,000 points, 1,000 rebounds, 300 assists and 300 steals (a list that includes teammate Tamika Catchings, Cheryl Miller of USC, Sophia Young of Baylor, and Armintie Price of Mississippi.) In 1998, Holdsclaw received the James E. Sullivan Award as the top amateur athlete in the United States. Holdsclaw also won the Naismith trophy for player of the year twice, in 1998 and 1999, and posted a 131\u201317 win\u2013loss record during her remarkable career as a Lady Vol. In 2000, she was named Naismith's Player of the Century for the 1990s and was also part of an ESPY award given to the Lady Vols as Co-Team of the Decade for the 1990s. In 1996, 1997, and 1998, Holdsclaw was named to the Final Four All Tournament team.\nIn 2006, Holdsclaw was named to a women's collegiate basketball silver anniversary team for being picked as one of the 25 greatest players of the past 25 years. She was also picked as one of the 5 greatest players in the SEC of the past 25 years.\nHoldsclaw is a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority.\nWNBA career.\nIn the 1999 WNBA draft, Holdsclaw was selected by the Washington Mystics 1st overall. After this selection, Holdsclaw gained the distinction of being the first female athlete to appear on the cover of \"SLAM\" magazine. Furthermore, Holdsclaw was pictured in a New York Knicks jersey, implying that perhaps she was good enough to play in the NBA.\nIn her first season, she was named the Rookie of the Year, the first number one draft pick to win that honor. She was also a starter in the inaugural WNBA All-Star Game that same year. She averaged 16.9 points and 7.9 rebounds per game in her first season. The next year, Holdsclaw was named to the Olympic team, helping to lead them to a gold medal.\nDuring her subsequent seasons in the WNBA, Holdsclaw continued to improve her numbers. In 2002, despite missing several games with an ankle injury, Holdsclaw averaged a double-double per game with 19.9 points and 11.5 rebounds. By 2003, she was averaging 20.5 points and 10.9 rebounds per game. On July 24, 2004, however, she failed to show up for a game against Charlotte, played one more game in reserve and then did not play the rest of the season including the entire playoffs.\nOn March 21, 2005, Holdsclaw was traded to the Los Angeles Sparks in exchange for DeLisha Milton-Jones.\nIn May 2006, Holdsclaw took a sudden two-week leave from playing for the Sparks, but later clarified that this was due to the serious illnesses of her father and stepfather. As of late June, she was averaging 14.4 points per game and 7 rebounds per game.\nOn June 11, 2007, only a few weeks into the 2007 WNBA season, she surprisingly announced she was retiring and did not immediately provide any explanation as to her sudden departure.\nOn December 17, 2008, the Atlanta Dream traded the 13th pick in the 2009 WNBA draft to the Los Angeles Sparks in exchange for the rights to Holdsclaw. Holdsclaw stated she definitely considered a return to the WNBA if healthy, and did. Holdsclaw was a constant part of the team's offense and a starter that season, despite an injury that kept her out several games toward the end of the season. However, she returned just in time for one game in the playoffs. The Dream lost to the Detroit Shock.\nOn May 19, 2010, she was released from the Dream after requesting a trade and did not report to the team. Two days later, she signed with the San Antonio Silver Stars.\nUSA Basketball.\nHoldsclaw was a member of the National team who traveled to Berlin, Germany in July and August 1998 for the FIBA World Championships. The USA team won a close opening game against Japan 95\u201389, then won their next six games easily. In the quarterfinals, Holdsclaw scored 20 points to help team advance. After trailing late in the final game, the USA held on to win the gold medal 71\u201365. Holdsclaw averaged 10.9 points per game, third highest on the team.\nHoldsclaw continued with the National team to the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, Australia. The USA won all eight games, including the gold medal game against host Australia to win the gold medal, although Holdsclaw had a stress fracture in her right foot and was unable to compete.\nChamique Holdsclaw Foundation.\nToday, Holdsclaw works as a mental health advocate.\nPersonal life.\nHoldsclaw wrote in her autobiography \"Breaking Through: Beating the Odds Shot after Shot\" (2012, ) that she had suffered depression during her professional basketball career, and attempted suicide on one occasion.\nAtlanta police issued an arrest warrant for Holdsclaw on November 15, 2012, after Holdsclaw allegedly attacked her ex-girlfriend's car with a baseball bat and shot at the car. The owner of the car, fellow WNBA player Jennifer Lacy, was uninjured. It was announced on February 27, 2013, that Holdsclaw was being indicted for the November shooting in Atlanta. It is a six-count indictment charging her with aggravated assault, criminal damage and possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony. Holdsclaw was released from jail after posting a $100,000 bond and a court date was not set.\nHoldsclaw pleaded guilty June 14, 2013, to aggravated assault, possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony and other charges. She was sentenced to three years' probation and ordered to perform 120 hours of community service and pay a $3,000 fine under the plea agreement. Holdsclaw's attorney Ed Garland said his client \"felt that to honestly accept what her actions were was best for everyone concerned\".\nDocumentary filmmaker Rick Goldsmith produced a film on Holdsclaw's life and battle with mental illness called \"Mind/Game: The Unquiet Journey of Chamique Holdsclaw\" which aired on Logo TV on May 3, 2016."}
{"id": "756298", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756298", "title": "Slaughter (group)", "text": ""}
{"id": "756299", "revid": "11096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756299", "title": "Domenico di Michelino", "text": "Domenico di Michelino (1417\u20131491) was an Italian Renaissance painter who was born and died in Florence. His birth name was Domenico di Francesco. The patronymic \"di Michelino\" was adopted in honour of his teacher, the cassone painter Michelino di Benedetto (c. 1378-1499), by whom no works have been identified. Giorgio Vasari reports that Domenico was also a pupil of Fra Angelico, whose influence is reflected in many of Domenico's paintings along with that of Filippo Lippi and Pesellino.\nDomenico enrolled in the Florentine painters' confraternity, the Compagnia di San Luca, by 1442. Two years later he joined the Arte dei Medici e Speziali, the Florentine painters' guild. He had a workshop in the Via delle Terme, Florence, which he shared with Domenico di Zanobi (formerly known as the Master of the Johnson Nativity).\nHis earliest extant work is a processional banner for the Ospedale degli Innocenti, Florence, in which the Virgin is shown protecting the martyred innocents beneath her mantle. Commissioned in 1440 and completed in 1446, the picture was entirely repainted in the sixteenth century by Michele Tosini.\nIn 1449-50 Domenico painted the chapel of Saint Leonard in the church of Santa Maria a Peretola on the outskirts of Florence. The chapel includes a lunette with a scene of \"Saint Leonard Freeing Prisoners\" as well as images of Saint Catherine of Alexandria, Saint Lucy and musical angels.\nIn 1458 Domenico painted an altarpiece of the \"Madonna and Child with Saints\", now at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, and in 1463 he was commissioned an altarpiece by Cosimo de' Medici for the church of San Girolamo in Volterra (now at the local Museo Diocesano). Other, undated altarpieces are in Anghiari (Santo Stefano), Dijon (Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts), Florence (Galleria dell'Accademia), San Gimignano (Museo Civico) and San Giovanni Valdarno (Museo della Basilica di Santa Maria delle Grazie). A painting of \"Saint Lawrence\" at San Lorenzo a Porciano in Stia, painted between 1477 and 1482, is representative of Domenico's late work. In addition to altarpieces, he also made many small-scale paintings of religious subjects, painted the fronts of \"cassoni\", and illuminated manuscripts.\nDomenico's most famous work is the \"Comedy Illuminating Florence\" on the north wall of the cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore, Florence. According to documents, the painting was commissioned on 30 January 1465 and was designed by Alesso Baldovinetti. It shows Dante Alighieri presenting his famous poem, the \"Divine Comedy\", to the city of Florence. Views of Hell, Mount Purgatory and Paradise appear in the background, all as described in the poem. It has been suggested that the painting was inspired by Giovanni di Paolo's illumination for \"Paradiso\" 17 in the celebrated \"Yates Thompson Manuscript\" (c. 1444-1450; London, British Library, Yates Thompson MS 36), one of the finest \"Divine Comedy\" manuscripts ever produced, which shows all of the same details but in reverse.\nDomenico was still active in 1483 but few of his works from this period survive. He died in Florence on 18 April 1491 and was buried in the church of Sant'Ambrogio.\nThe art historian Bernard Berenson mistakenly assigned all of Domenico's paintings to Giusto d'Andrea (1440-1496), and misattributed Zanobi Strozzi's paintings to Domenico di Michelino."}
{"id": "756301", "revid": "82307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756301", "title": "List of English districts by ethnicity", "text": "This is a list of districts of England showing their ethnic composition as recorded in the 2021 census. There were 309 English districts at the time of the 2021 census.\nCensus respondents were asked, 'What is your ethnic group? Choose section from A to E, then to best describe your ethnic group or background'. The sections offered were:"}
{"id": "756304", "revid": "4145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756304", "title": "2300AD", "text": ""}
{"id": "756306", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756306", "title": "Barbary Treaties", "text": ""}
{"id": "756308", "revid": "21013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756308", "title": "Alexander P. Butterfield", "text": ""}
{"id": "756310", "revid": "162146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756310", "title": "Heckler and Koch G36", "text": ""}
{"id": "756319", "revid": "11555324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756319", "title": "Folsom Prison Blues", "text": "\"Folsom Prison Blues\" is a song by American singer-songwriter Johnny Cash, based on material composed by Gordon Jenkins. Written in 1953, it was first recorded and released as a single in 1955, and later included on his debut studio album \"Johnny Cash with His Hot and Blue Guitar!\" (1957), as the album's 11th track. The song combines elements from two popular folk styles, the train song and the prison song, both of which Cash continued to use for the rest of his career. It was one of Cash's signature songs. Additionally, this recording was included on the compilation album \"All Aboard the Blue Train\" (1962). In June 2014, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked it number 51 on its list of the 100 greatest country songs of all time.\nCash performed the song live to a crowd of inmates at California's Folsom State Prison in 1968 for his live album \"At Folsom Prison\" (1968), released through Columbia Records. This version became a number-one hit on the country music charts and reached number 32 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the same year. This version also won the Grammy Award for Best Country Vocal Performance, Male, at the 11th Annual Grammy Awards in 1969.\nOriginal 1955 recording.\nCash was inspired to write this song after seeing the movie \"Inside the Walls of Folsom Prison\" (1951) while serving in West Germany in the United States Air Force at Landsberg, Bavaria (itself the location of a famous prison). Cash recounted how he came up with the line \"But I shot a man in Reno, just to watch him die\": \"I sat with my pen in my hand, trying to think up the worst reason a person could have for killing another person, and that's what came to mind.\"\nCash took the melody for the song and many of the lyrics from Gordon Jenkins's 1953 \"Seven Dreams\" concept album, specifically the song \"Crescent City Blues\". Jenkins was not credited on the original record, which was issued by Sun Records. In the early 1970s, after the song became popular, Cash paid Jenkins a settlement around US$75,000 following a lawsuit.\n\"Folsom Prison Blues\" was recorded at the Sun Studio in Memphis, Tennessee, on July 30, 1955. The producer was Sam Phillips, and the musicians were Cash (vocals, guitar), Luther Perkins (guitar), and Marshall Grant (bass). As with other songs recorded during his early Sun Records sessions, Cash had no drummer in the studio, but replicated the snare drum sound by inserting a piece of paper (like a dollar bill) under the guitar strings and strumming the snare rhythm on his guitar. The song's sound has been described as country, rockabilly, and rock and roll. The song was released as a single with another song recorded at the same session, \"So Doggone Lonesome\". Early in 1956, both sides reached number four on the \"Billboard\" C&amp;W Best Sellers chart.\nWhen photographer Jim Marshall asked Cash why the song's main character was serving time in California's Folsom Prison after shooting a man in Reno, Nevada, he responded, \"That's called poetic license.\"\nIn 2001, the 1955 original version of \"Folsom Prison Blues\" on Sun Records by Johnny Cash was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame. The song date listed was 1956.\nLive 1968 recording.\nCash opened almost all of his concerts with \"Folsom Prison Blues\" after greeting the audience with his trademark introduction, \"Hello, I'm Johnny Cash,\" for decades. Cash performed the song at Folsom State Prison on January 13, 1968, which was recorded and later released as a live album titled \"At Folsom Prison\". That opening version of the song is more up-tempo than the original Sun recording. According to Michael Streissguth, the cheering from the audience following the line \"But I shot a man in Reno / just to watch him die\" was added in postproduction. According to a special feature on the DVD release of the 2005 biopic \"Walk the Line\", the prisoners avoided cheering at any of Cash's comments about the prison, fearing reprisal from guards. The performance again featured Cash, Perkins, and Grant, as on the original recording, together with W. S. Holland (drums).\nReleased as a single, the live version reached number one on the country singles chart, and number 32 on the Hot 100, in 1968. Pitchfork Media placed this live version at number eight on its list of \"the 200 Greatest Songs of the 1960s\". The live performance of the song won Cash the Grammy Award for Best Country Vocal Performance, Male, the first of four he won in his career, at the 1969 Grammy Awards.\nChart performance.\nOriginal version\nLive version"}
{"id": "756322", "revid": "27813231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756322", "title": "England Rugby", "text": "England Rugby may refer to:"}
{"id": "756323", "revid": "38020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756323", "title": "U. S. Virgin Islands", "text": ""}
{"id": "756324", "revid": "1303672780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756324", "title": "Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel", "text": "The Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel () () is a triumphal arch in Paris, located in the Place du Carrousel. It is an example of Neoclassical architecture in the Corinthian order. It was built between 1806 and 1808 to commemorate Napoleon's military victories in the Wars of the Third and Fourth Coalitions. The Arc de Triomphe de l'\u00c9toile, at the far end of the Champs-\u00c9lys\u00e9es, is about twice the size; designed in the same year but not completed until 1836.\nDescription.\nThe monument is high, wide, and deep. The high central arch is flanked by two smaller ones, high, and wide. Around its exterior are eight Corinthian columns of marble. These columns were recovered from the Ch\u00e2teau de Meudon, destroyed in 1804. Each column is topped by eight soldiers of the Empire. On the pediment, between the soldiers, bas-reliefs depict:\nNapoleon's diplomatic and military victories are commemorated by bas-reliefs executed in rose marble. They depict:\nThe arch is derivative of the triumphal arches of the Roman Empire, in particular the Arch of Septimius Severus in Rome. The subjects of the bas-reliefs devoted to the battles were selected by the director of the Mus\u00e9e Napol\u00e9on (located at the time in the Louvre), Vivant Denon, and designed by Charles Meynier.\nOn the top of each of the eight marble columns are marble sculptures that faithfully reproduce the uniforms of the principal corps of Napoleon's imperial army. On the east side (towards the Louvre), the four statues are a cuirassier by Auguste Taunay, a dragoon by Charles-Louis Corbet, a mounted chasseur by Jean-Joseph Foucou and a caribinier by Joseph Chinard. On the west side (towards the Tuileries Gardens), the statues represent a grenadier by Robert-Guillaume Dardel, a line carabinier by Antoine Mouton, a cannonier by Charles-Antoine Bridan and a sapper by Auguste Dumont. The statue of the sapper is the only one that represents a real soldier, , who was known for his strength and height, which exceeded 2 meters. He is famous for having presented a cannon instead of a rifle during Napoleon's review of his troops prior to the battle of Tilsitt in July 1807.\nThe quadriga atop the entablement is a copy of the so-called Horses of Saint Mark that adorn the top of the main door of the St Mark's Basilica in Venice.\nHistory.\nDesigned by Charles Percier and Pierre Fran\u00e7ois L\u00e9onard Fontaine, the arch was built between 1806 and 1808 by the Emperor Napoleon I, on the model of the Arch of Constantine (312 AD) in Rome, as a gateway of the Tuileries Palace, the Imperial residence. The destruction of the Tuileries Palace during the Paris Commune in 1871, allowed an unobstructed view west towards the Arc de Triomphe.\nIt was originally surmounted by the Horses of Saint Mark from St Mark's Basilica in Venice, which had been captured in 1798 by Napoleon. In 1815, following the Battle of Waterloo and the Bourbon restoration, France ceded the quadriga to the Austrian Empire which had annexed Venice under the terms of the Congress of Vienna. The Austrians immediately returned the statuary to Venice. The horses of Saint Mark were replaced in 1828 by a quadriga sculpted by Baron Fran\u00e7ois Joseph Bosio, depicting Peace riding in a triumphal chariot led by gilded Victories on both sides. The composition commemorates the Restoration of the Bourbons following Napoleon's downfall.\nThe Arc du Carrousel inspired the design of Marble Arch, constructed in London between 1826 and 1833.\nGeography.\nThe Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel is at the eastern end of Paris Axe historique (\"historic axis\"), a nine-kilometre-long linear route which dominates much of the northwestern quadrant of the city.\nLooking west, the arch is aligned with the obelisk in the Place de la Concorde, the centerline of the grand boulevard Champs-\u00c9lys\u00e9es, the Arc de Triomphe at the Place de l'\u00c9toile, and, although it is not directly visible from the Place du Carrousel, the Grande Arche de la D\u00e9fense. Thus, the axis begins and ends with an arch. When the Arc du Carrousel was built, however, an observer in the Place du Carrousel was impeded from any view westward. The central part of the Palais des Tuileries intervened to block the line of sight to the west. When the Tuileries was burned down during the Paris Commune in 1871, and its ruins were swept away, the great axis, as it presently exists, was opened all the way to the Place du Carrousel and the Louvre."}
{"id": "756330", "revid": "7011229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756330", "title": "Springbok Rugby Team", "text": ""}
{"id": "756332", "revid": "492929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756332", "title": "Wallabies Rugby Team", "text": ""}
{"id": "756333", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756333", "title": "BFG 10K", "text": ""}
{"id": "756335", "revid": "30552921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756335", "title": "Pyotr Wrangel", "text": "Baron Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel ( ; 25 April 1928) was a Russian military officer of Baltic German descent. A veteran of the Russo-Japanese War and World War I, he rose to become a commanding general in the anti-Bolshevik Volunteer Army during the Russian Civil War. In 1920, he became the last commander-in-chief of the White forces in Southern Russia, which he reorganized as the Russian Army.\nAfter graduating as a mining engineer, Wrangel volunteered for service in the Russo-Japanese War, where he decided on a military career. A graduate of the Imperial General Staff Academy, he distinguished himself during World War I, becoming one of the first Russian officers to be awarded the Order of St. George for heroism. He rose to the rank of major general.\nAfter the October Revolution, Wrangel joined the Volunteer Army in August 1918 and was given command of major cavalry formations. He became known for his aggressive leadership and battlefield successes in the northern Caucasus. In 1919, he captured the strategic city of Tsaritsyn but soon clashed with his superior, Anton Denikin, over the latter's Moscow Directive, a plan Wrangel considered strategically flawed. The growing rivalry led to his dismissal from command in December 1919.\nFollowing Denikin's resignation in April 1920, Wrangel was elected commander-in-chief of the shattered White forces in Crimea. He established the Government of South Russia and attempted to win popular support with a wide-ranging series of reforms, including a radical land reform. After initial military successes against the Red Army, his forces were defeated, and he organized a mass evacuation from Crimea in November 1920, successfully evacuating over 145,000 people. In exile, he remained a leader of the White movement and founded the Russian All-Military Union (ROVS) in 1924. He is remembered as the last commander of the White Army, a more able administrator and strategist than his predecessors, who took command when the White cause was already considered lost.\nEarly life and career.\nFamily background.\nPyotr Wrangel was born in Novalexandrovsk, Kovno Governorate in the Russian Empire (now Zarasai, Lithuania) on 28 August 1878, the eldest of three brothers. He was a scion of the Wrangel family, a Baltic German noble house of Swedish origin that had served the rulers of Sweden, Prussia, Austria and Russia for over 700 years. The family produced seven field marshals, seven admirals, and dozens of generals. His ancestor, the Swedish Field Marshal Herman Wrangel, was the father of Carl Gustaf Wrangel, who built Skokloster Castle. By the nineteenth century, branches of the family had established themselves in the Russian Empire, including Baron Ferdinand von Wrangel, the explorer and governor-general of Alaska.\nPyotr's father, Baron , was a humanist, art connoisseur, and writer who had rebelled against the family's military tradition. Nikolai later wrote a memoir, \"From Serfdom to Bolshevism\", detailing his life and experiences. Pyotr's mother, Maria Dimitrievna Dementieva-Maikova, was the daughter of an impoverished officer but was well-educated and interested in social reform. The family lived in a liberal, cultured atmosphere in Rostov-on-Don, where Nikolai was a director of several companies.\nEducation and early service.\nFollowing his father's wishes, Wrangel was sent to a civilian school. His father, interested in gold mining in Siberia, decided that Pyotr should become a mining engineer and enrolled him in the School of Mines in Saint Petersburg. A dutiful son, Wrangel studied diligently and graduated first in his class, receiving a gold medal. Before pursuing his engineering career, he was required to complete his compulsory military service. For the Wrangel family, this meant joining the prestigious Horse Guards, which his father described as the \"Family Regiment\".\nHe entered the army on 13 September 1901. Life in the Horse Guards appealed to him, and he decided to apply for a permanent commission. As with all Guards regiments, a commission required a ballot vote by the regiment's officers. According to his son, on the eve of the ballot, Wrangel celebrated his expected promotion and, on returning home, drew his sword and decapitated a row of young trees planted outside the residence of his senior colonel, the humorless Prince Troubetzkoy. The Prince ensured Wrangel was blackballed, and he left for Siberia to begin his engineering career, reconciled to his new life. He began work as a chemical engineer in eastern Siberia.\nRusso-Japanese War.\nWrangel's life was changed by the outbreak of the Russo-Japanese War in 1904. As a reserve lieutenant, he volunteered for combat duty in the Far East. Along with fifteen other officers from the Horse Guards, he was assigned to the 2nd Argun Cossack Regiment of the Trans-Baikal Cossack Host. During the war, he wrote long, descriptive letters home, which his mother later had published in a historical journal. These letters reveal his keen powers of observation and his feel for the life of a combat officer.\nIn one of his first actions, he led a scouting party deep into Manchuria to reconnoiter the town of Kindisian. After a perilous night mission, he confirmed the town was clear of large enemy forces. He was awarded his first combat decorations for his bravery during the war. Having found his vocation in soldiering, he decided to stay in military service after the war ended. He was transferred to the 55th Dragoon Regiment, based in Finland.\nBetween wars (1905\u20131914).\nDuring the 1905 Russian Revolution, Wrangel was sent with a detachment under General Orlov to the Baltic region to quell nationalist unrest. In 1907, he was temporarily attached to the Horse Guards in St. Petersburg, pending entry to the Nicholas Imperial General Staff Academy. According to his son, his previous indiscretion had been forgotten. During a regimental parade, Tsar Nicholas II, the regiment's honorary commander, noticed the tall officer in a line dragoon uniform with several combat decorations. Upon learning it was Captain Wrangel, the Tsar declared, \"I want Captain Wrangel in my regiment.\" Wrangel became a full-fledged officer of the Horse Guards without the need for a ballot.\nWrangel became known among his fellow officers as \"Piper\" for his taste for Piper-Heidsieck champagne. In 1908, he married Olga Ivanenko, the daughter of a wealthy Ukrainian landowner. She was a well-educated woman who had trained as a nurse. The couple had four children: Helen, Peter, Nathalie, and later a son, Alexis, born in exile.\nWrangel entered the Staff College, where his previous degree in civil engineering made subjects like mathematics and engineering easy for him. He graduated among the top of his class. In a characteristic move, he turned down the opportunity for a staff position, explaining, \"I would be a poor staff officer...I am of too independent a mind!\" He returned to a line command in the Horse Guards.\nWorld War I.\nAt the start of World War I, Wrangel, holding the rank of captain, was given command of a cavalry squadron. On 6 August 1914, his squadron participated in the attack on German positions at Kaushen in East Prussia. The German artillery battery was well-camouflaged and inflicting heavy casualties on the Russian forces. After other officers had been killed, Wrangel took command and led a desperate cavalry charge against the battery. The charge was largely successful, though most of the horses and many of the men were killed by gunfire. Wrangel's own horse was killed under him, but he survived to help capture the two remaining guns. For this act of heroism, he was one of the first Russian officers of the war to be awarded the Order of St. George (4th class).\nThis action brought him to prominence. In September 1914, he was made Chief of Staff of the Joint Guards Cavalry Division under General Pavel Skoropadsky. In April 1915, he was awarded the St. George Sword and promoted to colonel. He was offered the command of a line cavalry regiment, and to the surprise of many, he requested the Nertchinsk Trans-Baikal Cossack Regiment, with whom he had served in the Russo-Japanese War. He had great respect for the Cossacks' bravery and knew them well. By 1916 he was commanding the Tsarevich's Own Regiment of Nerchinsk Cossacks.\nHe led the regiment with customary energy. In the Carpathian Mountains, a successful attack earned new rewards: the regiment was awarded silver bugles, a regimental combat award dating from the Napoleonic wars. As a mark of special distinction, Tsarevich Alexei was named honorary chief of the regiment. Wrangel led a deputation from the regiment to St. Petersburg to receive the honors. This led to a period of service as an aide-de-camp to Tsar Nicholas II. During this time, he observed the growing turmoil in the capital and the \"presentiment abroad of the nearness of the terrible events\".\nAfter returning to the front, Wrangel was promoted to major general and given command of a brigade on the Romanian front.\nRussian Revolution.\nWhen news of the Tsar's abdication reached the front in March 1917, Wrangel's divisional commander, General Aleksandr Krymov, a republican, read the manifesto. Wrangel turned to his chief of staff and said: \"This is the end of everything \u2014 this is anarchy.\" He believed that the disappearance of the monarchy would lead to the collapse of the army and the nation. After the October Revolution, he left the army and went to his family's villa in Yalta, Crimea.\nIn early 1918, Yalta was occupied by the Red Army. Wrangel was arrested by Red sailors, along with his wife and her brother. He was nearly executed but was saved by the intervention of his wife, who argued with the sailors, and by a fortuitous circumstance involving his family's laundress and the head of the local revolutionary tribunal. After his release, he went into hiding with his family among the local Tatar population, who were hostile to the Bolsheviks.\nRussian Civil War.\nJoining the Volunteer Army.\nIn August 1918, after German troops had occupied Crimea, Wrangel travelled to Ekaterinodar to join the anti-Bolshevik Volunteer Army. He was given command of the 1st Cavalry Division by General Anton Denikin. The division was small, consisting of only twelve hundred men, with minimal ammunition and equipment, facing Red forces that numbered between twelve and fifteen thousand. Wrangel quickly established a reputation for bold leadership and for reviving the old cavalry tactic of charging in close order (\"stirrup to stirrup\"), a method that proved surprisingly effective against the less disciplined Red infantry. He had an unpleasant experience in his early days, when his Cossacks broke before a Red cavalry charge and he had to escape by jumping onto a moving ambulance-car. He also became known for his ruthless methods. After capturing a large group of Red Army prisoners, he ordered 370 of their officers and non-commissioned officers shot on the spot. He justified this as letting \"those who had misled them take responsibility for their treason\", while offering the remaining soldiers the chance to \"atone for their crime\" by joining the White army. According to Wrangel, this battalion later became one of his best units.\nHis successes led to his promotion to command the 1st Cavalry Corps. He won a series of victories in the northern Caucasus, culminating in a decisive victory at the Urup River in October 1918, where his forces routed the Reds, capturing 3,000 prisoners and 23 guns. By the end of 1918, as part of a large-scale reorganization after the Don and Volunteer armies were unified as the Armed Forces of South Russia, Wrangel was given command of the Caucasian Volunteer Army, the main fighting force in the Northern Caucasus.\nCapture of Tsaritsyn and conflict with Denikin.\nAlthough an able and distinguished officer, Wrangel was also characterized by contemporaries as \"boundlessly vain, ambitious, and given to histrionics and intrigues\". In early 1919, a major strategic disagreement emerged between Wrangel and Denikin, reviving a debate that had taken place in May 1918 between Denikin and the Don Ataman Pyotr Krasnov. At a Council of War in late January, Wrangel argued for a concentration of forces to strike north-east against Tsaritsyn (later Stalingrad) to link up with Admiral Alexander Kolchak's White army advancing from Siberia. Denikin, however, insisted on concentrating forces in the Donets Basin to secure its coal resources and create a \"jumping-off ground for the attack on Moscow\". Denikin's view prevailed. The conference where this was decided sowed the first seeds of discord between the two generals, with Denikin becoming wary of the aristocratic Wrangel.\nDespite his objections, Wrangel led the newly formed Caucasian Army towards Tsaritsyn. The campaign was arduous, conducted across a steppe with little water and facing numerically superior Red forces. In June 1919, after a fierce battle, Wrangel's troops stormed and captured the heavily fortified city, a major strategic victory for the White forces. The victory was achieved through a bold plan, using a concentration of forces on one flank and the first coordinated use of tanks and aircraft by the White Army.\nFollowing the victory, Denikin arrived in Tsaritsyn and issued the Moscow Directive. Wrangel again voiced his concerns, calling the plan the \"death-sentence for the Armies of Southern Russia\" and arguing that the army should first secure its gains and link up with Kolchak. Denikin famously replied, \"Of course, you want to be the first to enter Moscow!\" As Denikin's armies advanced on Moscow, Wrangel's forces on the Volga flank were left with few reinforcements and faced mounting Red pressure. He successfully defended Tsaritsyn against four successive Red Army assaults but was eventually forced to retreat. The ever-increasing rivalry with Denikin became public and harmed the White movement. Wrangel attacked Denikin for his perceived weakness and indecisiveness and his failure to impose order in the rear. In December 1919, after a series of military setbacks, Wrangel was dismissed from his command and went into exile in Constantinople.\nCommander-in-Chief.\nGovernment of South Russia.\nIn March 1920, following the disastrous defeat of the Volunteer Army and its chaotic evacuation from Novorossiysk, Denikin resigned. On 4 April, a military council elected Wrangel as the new Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of South Russia. He took command of a demoralized and shattered force, now confined to the Crimean peninsula, at a time when many, including the British, considered the White cause lost. Admiral John de Robeck, the British High Commissioner, informed him that British aid would cease. Wrangel's response was resolute: \"If I am chosen, it is my duty to accept the command.\"\nWrangel reorganized the remnants into a disciplined fighting force, which he renamed the \"Russian Army\" to distance it from the now-unpopular Volunteer Army and emphasize its national character. He established a new civilian government, the Government of South Russia, bringing in experienced administrators like Alexander Krivoshein, a former minister under Stolypin, and the liberal intellectual Peter Struve. His government embarked on an ambitious program of reforms, described by his foreign minister Struve as an attempt \"to make leftist policy with rightist hands\". This program included a sweeping land reform, which recognized the peasants' ownership of land they had seized in 1917 while providing for compensation to the original landowners. It was the most radical land reform ever proposed by a White leader. He also implemented policies to address workers' grievances, combat corruption, and grant autonomy to the Cossacks. Unlike his predecessors, he did not believe that the people would support the Whites out of a sense of duty, but rather that the Whites had to create conditions that would generate such support. Despite these measures, the land reform was too complex and was implemented too late to win over the peasantry, who remained deeply distrustful of the White government and expected the land for free from the Bolsheviks.\nDefeat and evacuation.\nIn June 1920, Wrangel launched his last major offensive, the Northern Taurida Operation. His forces broke out of the Crimean bottleneck and captured a large territory to the north. This success was aided by the diversion of Red Army forces to the Polish\u2013Soviet War. However, after Poland signed an armistice with the Soviets in October, the Red Army concentrated overwhelming forces against Wrangel. An amphibious landing in the Kuban in August to raise a Cossack uprising failed disastrously. In late October, the vastly outnumbered Russian Army was forced back into Crimea after a fierce fighting retreat across the Taurida.\nFacing certain defeat, Wrangel organized a mass evacuation, for which he had been preparing since August. In a final proclamation before leaving, he stated, \"The Army, which has shed its blood in great torrents in fighting, not only for the Russian cause, but for the whole world, is now leaving its native shores, abandoned by everybody...We have the right to claim help from those who owe their continued freedom and even their continued existence to us; we have sacrificed much for their cause.\" On 14 November 1920, 126 ships evacuated 145,693 soldiers and civilians from the ports of Crimea, without a single casualty. The evacuation was far more successful than Denikin's from Novorossiysk. This fleet, later known as Wrangel's fleet, sailed to Constantinople, marking the end of the White struggle in Southern Russia.\nLife in exile.\nAfter the evacuation, Wrangel and his army were interned in camps, primarily in Gallipoli and on the island of Lemnos. Despite extreme hardship, starvation, and pressure from the French government to disband, Wrangel kept the army's morale and organization intact. His staff was based on his yacht, the \"Lucullus\", in Constantinople. On 15 October 1921, the \"Lucullus\" was rammed and sunk by an Italian freighter sailing from a Soviet port; Wrangel and his family were ashore at the time, but the incident was widely seen as a Soviet assassination attempt.\nThe army was eventually resettled in Yugoslavia and Bulgaria. In 1924, to unite all Russian military \u00e9migr\u00e9s and continue the anti-Bolshevik struggle, Wrangel established the Russian All-Military Union (ROVS). He remained its leader for the rest of his life. He spent his final years with his family in Brussels, living modestly and continuing to lead the White movement through voluminous correspondence.\nDeath and legacy.\nWrangel died suddenly in Brussels in 1928, after a short and severe illness. His family and supporters believed that he had been poisoned by a Soviet agent. According to historian Richard Luckett, it is \"probable that Wrangel died a natural death \u2013 of an illness brought on by overwork\". His last words were reportedly, \"Lord save the Army\".\nIn 1929, in accordance with his last wishes, his remains were transported to Yugoslavia. After a state funeral in Belgrade attended by King Alexander I and representatives of the Russian \u00e9migr\u00e9 community, he was buried in the Russian Holy Trinity Church.\nWrangel is remembered as the last commander of the White Army and a central figure of the Russian Civil War. Historian Peter Kenez described him as a \"more able politician, diplomat and general\" than his predecessor Denikin, who possessed charisma and enacted a more realistic and enlightened policy. However, Kenez also argues that Wrangel assumed command when \"the White cause was already lost\" and that his personal mistakes, such as delaying the withdrawal from Northern Taurida, did not ultimately influence the outcome of the struggle. For Wrangel, a key objective during his command was to lead his army out of a \"hopeless position without loss of honour\". His supporters believe that in this, he succeeded in redeeming the honour of the Imperial Russian Army from which the White movement had sprung. His family motto, \"Rumpo non Plecto\" (\"I break, I do not yield\"), has often been seen as representative of his character and his role in the White struggle.\nFamily.\nHe was married to Russian noblewoman Olga Mikhailovna (1886 Saint Petersburg - 1968 New York).They had two sons and two daughters:\nHis nephew, Baron George Wrangell, became known by the David Ogilvy-created 1951 ad campaign for the Hathaway shirt company in which he was depicted in photos as \"a white-shirted, debonair-looking fellow\" with a black patch over his right eye, although both his eyes were \"perfectly good.\""}
{"id": "756339", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756339", "title": "Amadeus I of Spain", "text": ""}
{"id": "756340", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756340", "title": "Real Player", "text": ""}
{"id": "756342", "revid": "9088688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756342", "title": "Heinz G\u00fcnther Guderian", "text": "Heinz G\u00fcnther Guderian (23 August 1914 \u2013 25 September 2004) was a German officer in the and later a major general and Inspector of Panzer Troops in the West German and NATO. He was the son of World War II General Heinz Guderian.\nBorn in Goslar in what was then the Prussian Province of Hanover, Heinz G\u00fcnther Guderian entered the German Army as an officer cadet on 1 April 1933. He was promoted to second lieutenant in 1935 and served as a (platoon leader), battalion and regimental adjutant and company commander in Panzer Regiments 1 and 35. He saw combat during the invasion of Poland and was wounded twice during the Battle of France in 1940. He graduated from the General Staff College in 1942 and served as a staff officer in various armored units until being assigned as the Operations Officer for the 116th (\"The Greyhounds\") in May 1942, a position he held until the end of the War.\nHe was captured at the conclusion of World War II and held as a prisoner of war until 1947. After the creation of the , Guderian returned to the army and was given command of 3 (later 174) and, later, . He also served in a variety of staff assignments, culminating in service as Inspector of Panzer Troops \u2014 the same job his father held during World War II \u2014 for the . He retired in 1974."}
{"id": "756343", "revid": "3311318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756343", "title": "List of international rugby football teams", "text": "List of international rugby football teams may refer to:"}
{"id": "756344", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756344", "title": "Londonderry (town), New Hampshire", "text": ""}
{"id": "756347", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756347", "title": "Lelos Rugby Team", "text": ""}
{"id": "756348", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756348", "title": "Georgian national rugby union team", "text": ""}
{"id": "756350", "revid": "1316463016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756350", "title": "Kelly Groucutt", "text": "Kelly Groucutt (born Michael William Groucutt; 8 September 1945 \u2013 19 February 2009) was an English musician best known as the bassist and secondary vocalist for the rock band Electric Light Orchestra (ELO) between 1974 and 1982.\nEarly career.\nGroucutt was born in Coseley, West Midlands. He began his musical career at 15 as Rikki Storm of Rikki Storm and the Falcons. He sang with multiple outfits during the 1960s, picking up the guitar as he went along. Groucutt was also a member of a band called \"Sight and Sound\", and later with a band called \"Barefoot\".\nElectric Light Orchestra.\nWhile playing with Barefoot in Birmingham, he was spotted by ELO's Jeff Lynne; and after Lynne, Bev Bevan and Richard Tandy had watched him play, he was invited to join ELO, to replace Mike de Albuquerque, who had recently left the band. Upon joining, he was asked to adopt a stage name because ELO had already had several members named Michael, Mike or Mik; he chose Kelly (a school nickname). ELO then set off on their \"Eldorado\" tour. The first Electric Light Orchestra album to feature Groucutt on bass guitar and as a backing vocalist was \"Face the Music\" (1975). He assumed lead vocal duties on one or two album tracks typically, and his vocals can be heard on later ELO songs, most prominently on songs such as \"Nightrider\" (1975), \"Poker\" (1975), \"Down Home Town\" (1975), \"Above the Clouds\" (1976), \"Across the Border\" (1977), \"Night in the City\" (1977), \"Sweet is the Night\" (1977) and \"The Diary of Horace Wimp\" (1979). Groucutt often displayed his operatic vocal talents during live performances of \"Rockaria!\" (1976), though these were not performed in the studio.\nGroucutt continued contributing on the albums \"A New World Record\" (1976), \"Out of the Blue\" (1977), \"Discovery\" (1979), \"Xanadu\" (1980), \"Time\" (1981), and the early sessions for \"Secret Messages\" (1983). By \"Time\", Groucutt's role in the band was reduced by Lynne from co-lead vocals to backing vocals exclusively.\nIn 1982, he released his self-titled, debut solo album, \"Kelly\". This album featured fellow ELO members Bev Bevan, Richard Tandy, Mik Kaminski and their orchestral co-arranger and conductor Louis Clark. In 2001, the album was remastered for CD.\nGroucutt remained with ELO until the onset of the recording sessions for the album \"Secret Messages\" in 1982. It was at this juncture that he left the band, unhappy with royalty payments during his tenure, and made the decision to sue management and band leader Jeff Lynne. A settlement for the sum of \u00a3300,000 () was reached out of court prior to proceedings, but Groucutt later reflected that he regretted suing Lynne. He is credited with playing bass on \"Secret Messages\", although the 2018 album liner notes state that he only played on four songs (\"Train of Gold\" and \"Rock 'n' Roll Is King\" from the single disc release and \"No Way Out\" and \"Beatles Forever\" from the original double album).\nDuring the mid-to-late 1980s, Groucutt worked further on his solo career, including the \"We Love Animals\" EP in 1985 to benefit the RSPCA. One of his songs from the EP, \"The Fox\", was later reworked for the ELO Part II album \"Moment of Truth\". \nGroucutt played a Gibson G3 bass as well as a Fender Precision Bass, an Ovation acoustic guitar and Hofner 500/1 bass guitar during much of his tenure in Electric Light Orchestra.\nOrKestra.\nIn the late 1980s, he and former band mate Mik Kaminski formed the group Player, a name soon revised to OrKestra to avoid confusion with the existing rock band of the same name. Groucutt and Kaminski eventually became dissatisfied with the poor promotion and record label the band received, especially as their first album, \"Beyond The Dream\" was delayed. Though at least one song was ready for use in the 1989 film \"Summer Job\", the album itself was not released until 1991. By that point, Kaminski and Groucutt, joined by fellow ELO member Hugh McDowell, had guest starred in a tour with ELO Part II. In 1992, Groucutt and Kaminski dissolved OrKestra and joined ELO Part II full-time.\nIn 1993, the group's second album, \"Roll Over Beethoven\" was released under the OrKestra name. It included more material from Groucutt and Kaminski's tenure in the band.\nELO Part II and The Orchestra.\nInitially joining Part II as a guest during a 1991 tour (in which he shared lead vocals with Eric Troyer, Peter Haycock and Neil Lockwood), Groucutt eventually became a full-time member of the band in 1992, shortly prior to Lockwood and Haycock's departures. Groucutt would alternate lead vocal duties with Troyer and newly-hired guitarist Phil Bates for much of the group's remaining lifespan. When the group released \"Moment of Truth\", Groucutt contributed the song \"The Fox\", and co-wrote \"Blue Violin\" and \"Twist of the Knife\". Groucutt also appeared on the live albums \"Performing ELO's Greatest Hits Live\" and \"One Night - Live in Australia\".\nWhile Groucutt was primarily the group's bassist, some live performances feature songs in which he would switch to guitar. \nWhen Bev Bevan sold his half of the rights to ELO back to Jeff Lynne in 1999, Groucutt chose to remain with the group, which was renamed The Orchestra. He again made writing contributions to the group's next album, \"No Rewind\", by co-writing the closing track, \"Before We Go\", on which he also sang lead vocals.\nPersonal life.\nGroucutt was married twice. In 2006, Groucutt wed Anna-Maria Bialaga. They remained married until his death.\nDeath.\nOn 18 February 2009, Groucutt returned from a sell-out show with The Orchestra in Berlin. He suffered a heart attack shortly after, and died on 19 February at the Worcestershire Royal Hospital in Worcester. His family held a small, exclusive concert with members from The Orchestra in his memory.\nAfter a successful crowdfunding campaign was held by his family, a plaque commemorating Groucutt was placed at his childhood home, where his family lived from 1937 to 1992."}
{"id": "756352", "revid": "786437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756352", "title": "Auguste Marie Louis Nicolas Lumiere", "text": ""}
{"id": "756353", "revid": "786437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756353", "title": "Louis Jean Lumiere", "text": ""}
{"id": "756355", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756355", "title": "Patrice E. Lumumba", "text": ""}
{"id": "756356", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756356", "title": "Patrice Emergy Lumumba", "text": ""}
{"id": "756358", "revid": "37052726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756358", "title": "Mega byte", "text": ""}
{"id": "756363", "revid": "22066013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756363", "title": "Henning Jakob Henrik Lund", "text": "Henning Jakob Henrik Lund or Intel'eraq (1875\u20131948) was a Greenlandic lyricist, painter, and Lutheran pastor. He wrote the lyrics to \"Nunarput, utoqqarsuanngoravit,\" in the Indigenous Greenlandic language, an Eskimo\u2013Aleut language. The song was adopted as the national anthem of Greenland.\nBackground.\nHenrik Lund was born on 29 September 1875 in Nanortalik, a village on the southwest coast of Greenland. He grew up near a community of relocated East Greenlandic Inuit and, like many in his family, devoted himself to work in East Greenland. Lund was of mixed Inuit and Danish descent, described as having Greenlandic features and bluish-grey eyes. His wife was Malene Lund, who was born in 1877 and died in 1979.\nHe learned to love music and poetry through his family and a local German Moravian mission. His father, Isak Lund, was a head catechist and a poet, whose patriotic sentiments are evident in his works, such as the poem \"Nuna Tassa Tupingnartoq\" or \"This Is a Wonderful Country.\"\nCareer.\nAfter attending the Danish Lutheran seminary in Godthaab, Lund became the catechist at Angmagssalik in East Greenland in 1900. In 1909, he returned home to West Greenland. He was ordained as a pastor on October 9, 1936, at the Cathedral of Our Lady in Copenhagen, Denmark. Ultimately, he became the local pastor at Narssaq.\nFrom 1923 to 1932, Lund was elected to the South Greenland provincial council. He also painted in oils and watercolor.\nPoetry and song.\nHe composed hymns in the Greenlandic language, which were published in 1909, 1930, 1937, and 1945. The second issue of a Greenlandic songbook, \"Erinarss\u00fbtit\" features his first published poetry, including \"Upernalermat\" or \"As Spring Is Coming.\" Later issues of this songbook include more of his poetry\u2013some secular in nature. His poems can be classified as epic or didactic. One poem, \"Igdlugssaq N\u00e1pagaungmat\" or \"When the House Was Built,\" details the seemingly minor event of constructing a home in Angmagssalik. While not overtly heroic, this action will be useful and demonstrated community affection. In \"Nunat Asingagingmata\" or \"When the Countries Again Turned Pale,\" Lund writes: \"We will soon see the country covered with snow, dressed in the garment of the sorrow, and crying in the storm after having bidden good-bye to all the small birds.\"\nNational anthem.\nLund's patriotic poem, \"Nunarput Utoqqarsuanngoravit\" or \"Our Country Who's Become So Old,\" was written in 1912 and later set to music by Jonathan Petersen (1891\u20131960). The song was adopted as the national anthem of Greenland in 1916. The lyrics translated from the Greenlandic language into English prose are:\nThis song can be interpreted as being assimilationist in tone and certainly has European influences; however, it also reflects the stirring of national consciousness of early 20th century Greenland. Village and tribal loyalties expanded to encompass the entire country, Kalaallit Nunaat. Since 1979, \"Nuna asiilasooq\" (The Land of Great Length), an anthem used by the self-governing Kalaallit people, has additionally been officially recognized by the government. Jonathan Petersen wrote both the lyrics and melody.\nHonors.\nThe Danish king awarded him the two orders: Dannebrogsm\u00e6ndenes H\u00e6derstegn and Ingenio et Arti. Henrik and Malene Lund's House, also known as Lund Cottage, built after Lund's own design in Narsaq, became a memorial in 1980 and is open to the public as part of the Narsaq Museum.\nDeath.\nLund died on June 17, 1948, in Narssaq, Greenland."}
{"id": "756364", "revid": "28903366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756364", "title": "Gavin Lyall", "text": "Gavin Tudor Lyall (9 May 1932 \u2013 18 January 2003) was an English author of espionage thrillers.\nBiography.\nLyall was born in Birmingham, then in Warwickshire (now West Midlands), England, as the son of a local accountant, and educated at King Edward's School, Birmingham. After completing his two years of National Service, 1951 to 1953, as a Pilot Officer in the Royal Air Force flying Gloster Meteors, he went to Pembroke College, Cambridge, graduating in 1956 with honours in English.\nWhile at Cambridge he wrote regularly for the undergraduate newspaper \"Varsity\" and also created a strip cartoon whose hero, \"Olly\", reflected student life and became a cult figure. He became editor of \"Varsity\" in 1956.\nAfter graduating he worked briefly as a reporter for the \"Birmingham Gazette\", \"Picture Post\" and \"Sunday Graphic\" newspapers and then as a film director for the BBC's \"Tonight\" programme. In 1958, he married the author Katharine Whitehorn, with whom he was to have two sons.\nLyall lived at 14 Provost Rd, London NW3 and enjoyed sailing on the Thames in his motor cruiser. From 1959 to 1962 he was a newspaper reporter and the aviation correspondent for the \"Sunday Times\". His first novel, \"The Wrong Side of the Sky\", was published in 1961, drawing from his personal experiences in the Libyan Desert and in Greece. It was an immediate success; P.G. Wodehouse said of it, \"Terrific: when better novels of suspense are written, lead me to them.\" Lyall then left journalism in 1963 to become a full-time author.\nLyall's first seven novels in the 1960s and early 1970s were action thrillers with different settings around the world. \"The Most Dangerous Game\" (1963) was set in Finnish Lapland. The film rights to \"Midnight Plus One\" (1965), in which an ex-spy is hired to drive a millionaire to Liechtenstein were purchased by actor Steve McQueen, who had planned to adapt it to the cinema before he died. \"Shooting Script\" (1966), about a former RAF pilot hired to fly his de Havilland Dove for a filming company, later in the story a B-25 Mitchell, is set around the Caribbean. Whitmore, a central character in the story was inspired by John Wayne whom Lyall had met while reporting on the making of the 1957 film \"Legend of the Lost\" in Libya. The protagonists of \"Judas Country\" (1975) are again former RAF pilots, and the setting is now in Cyprus and the Middle East.\nLyall is credited as co-writer (together with Frank Hardman and Martin Davison) of the original story on which the screenplay of the 1969 science-fiction film \"Moon Zero Two\" is based.\nGavin Lyall was also a wargamer and appeared in \"Battleground\", a Tyne Tees television series on miniature war gaming in 1978.\nLyall won the British Crime Writers' Association's Silver Dagger award in both 1964 and 1965. In 1966-67 he was Chairman of the British Crime Writers Association. He was not a prolific author, attributing his slow pace to obsession with technical accuracy. According to a British newspaper, \"he spent many nights in his kitchen at Primrose Hill, north London, experimenting to see if one could, in fact, cast bullets from lead melted in a saucepan, or whether the muzzle flash of a revolver fired across a saucer of petrol really would ignite a fire\".\nHe eventually published the results of his research in a series of pamphlets for the Crime Writers' Association in the 1970s.\nLyall signed a contract in 1964 by the investments group Booker similar to one they had signed with Ian Fleming. In return for a lump payment of \u00a325,000 and an annual salary, they and Lyall subsequently split his royalties, 51\u201349.\nUp to the publication in 1975 of \"Judas Country\", Lyall's work falls into two groups. The aviation thrillers (\"The Wrong Side of the Sky\", \"The Most Dangerous Game\", \"Shooting Script\", and \"Judas Country\"), and what might be called \"Euro-thrillers\" revolving around international crime in Europe (\"Midnight Plus One\", \"Venus With Pistol\", and \"Blame The Dead\"). All these books were written in the first person, with a sardonic style reminiscent of the \"hard-boiled private-eye\" genre. Despite the commercial success of his work, Lyall began to feel that he was falling into a predictable pattern, and abandoned both his earlier genres, and the first-person narrative, for his \"Harry Maxim\" series of espionage thrillers beginning with \"The Secret Servant\" published in 1980. This book, originally developed for a proposed BBC TV Series, featured Major Harry Maxim, an SAS officer assigned as a security adviser to 10 Downing Street, and was followed by three sequels with the same central cast of characters. In the 1990s Lyall changed literary direction once again, and wrote four semi-historical thrillers about the fledgling British secret service in the years leading up to World War I.\nLyall died of cancer in 2003."}
{"id": "756365", "revid": "14965160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756365", "title": "Man with No Name", "text": "The Man with No Name () is the antihero character portrayed by Clint Eastwood in Sergio Leone's \"Dollars Trilogy\" of Italian Spaghetti Western films: \"A Fistful of Dollars\" (1964), \"For a Few Dollars More\" (1965), and \"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly\" (1966). He is recognizable by his sarape, brown hat, tan cowboy boots, fondness for cigarillos, and the fact that he rarely speaks.\nThe \"Man with No Name\" concept was invented by the American distributor United Artists. Eastwood's character does have a name, or nickname, which is different in each film: \"Joe\", \"Manco\" and \"Blondie\", respectively.\nWhen Clint Eastwood was honored with the American Film Institute's Lifetime Achievement Award in 1996, Jim Carrey gave the introductory speech and said: The Man with No Name' had no name, so we could fill in our own.\" In 2025, \"Empire\" chose the Man with No Name as the 33rd greatest movie character of all time.\nConcept and creation.\n\"A Fistful of Dollars\" was directly adapted from Akira Kurosawa's \"Yojimbo\" (1961). It was the subject of a lawsuit by \"Yojimbo\"s producers. \"Yojimbo\"s protagonist, an unconventional r\u014dnin (a samurai with no master) played by Toshiro Mifune, bears a striking resemblance to Eastwood's character: both are quiet, gruff, eccentric strangers with a strong but unorthodox sense of justice and extraordinary proficiency with a particular weapon (in Mifune's case, a katana; in Eastwood's, a revolver).\nMifune plays a r\u014dnin with no name. When pressed, he gives the pseudonym \"Sanjuro Kuwabatake\" (meaning \"30-year-old mulberry field\"), a reference to his age and something he sees through a window. The convention of hiding the character's arms from view is shared as well, with Mifune's character typically wearing his arms inside his kimono, leaving the sleeves empty. Prior to signing on to \"Fistful\", Eastwood had seen Kurosawa's film and was impressed by the character. During filming, he did not emulate Mifune's performance beyond what was already in the script. He also insisted on removing some of the dialogue in the original script, making the character more silent and thus adding to his mystery. As the trilogy progressed, the character became even more silent and stoic.\nThe \"Man with No Name\" sobriquet was actually applied after the films were made, and was a marketing device used by distributor United Artists to promote the three films together in the United States film market. The prints of the film were physically trimmed to remove all mention of his names.\nActual names or monikers.\nIn \"A Fistful of Dollars\" (1964), he is called \"Joe\" by the undertaker, Piripero, and Eastwood's role is credited as \"Joe\".\nIn \"For a Few Dollars More\" (1965), he is called \"Manco\" (Spanish for \"one-armed\"; in fact, in the original Italian-language version, he is called \"il Monco\", a dialectal expression meaning \"the One-armed one\"), because he does everything left-handed, except for shooting.\nIn \"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly\" (1966), Tuco calls him \"Blondie\" (\"il Biondo\", meaning \"the Blond one\", in Italian) for his light hair. He is also \"the Good\" (\"il Buono\"), from which the film receives its name.\nIn the \"Dollars\" book series, he is also known as \"The Hunter\", \"The Bounty Killer\", \"Mister Sudden Death\", \"Nameless\", \"No Name\" and \"Se\u00f1or Ninguno\", or its literal translation \"Mr. None\".\nLiterature.\nThe popularity of the characters brought about a series of spin-off books, dubbed the \"Dollars\" series due to the common theme in their titles:\n\"A Coffin Full of Dollars\" provides some background history; when he was young, The Man with No Name was a ranch hand who was continually persecuted by an older hand named Carvell. The trouble eventually led to a shootout between the two with Carvell being outdrawn and killed; however, an examination of Carvell's body revealed a scar which identified him as Monk Carver, a wanted man with a $1,000 bounty. After comparing the received bounty with his $10-a-month ranch pay, the young cowhand chose to change his life and become a bounty hunter.\nIn July 2007, American comic book company Dynamite Entertainment announced that they were going to begin publishing a comic book featuring the character, titled \"The Man with No Name\". Set after the events of \"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly\", the comic is written by Christos Gage. Dynamite refers to him as \"Blondie\", the nickname Tuco uses for him in \"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly\". The first issue was released in March 2008, entitled, \"The Man with No Name: The Good, The Bad, and The Uglier\". Luke Lieberman and Matt Wolpert took over the writing for issues #7\u201311. Initially, Chuck Dixon was scheduled to take over the writing chores with issue #12, but Dynamite ended the series and opted to use Dixon's storyline for a new series titled \"The Good, The Bad and The Ugly\". The new series is not an adaptation of the movie, despite its title. After releasing eight issues, Dynamite abandoned the series."}
{"id": "756366", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756366", "title": "Joseph Marie Antoine Hubert Luns", "text": ""}
{"id": "756369", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756369", "title": "USMARC", "text": ""}
{"id": "756370", "revid": "37371155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756370", "title": "Rose Mary Woods", "text": "Rose Mary Woods (December 26, 1917\u00a0\u2013 January 22, 2005) was Richard Nixon's secretary from his days in Congress in 1951 through the end of his political career. Before H. R. Haldeman and John Ehrlichman became the operators of Nixon's presidential campaign, Woods was known as Nixon's gatekeeper.\nEarly life and connection to Nixon.\nRose Mary Woods was born in northeastern Ohio in the small pottery town of Sebring on December 26, 1917. Her brother was Joseph I. Woods, a sheriff of Cook County, Illinois, and longtime member of the Cook County Board.\nFollowing graduation from McKinley High School, Woods worked for Royal China, Inc., the city's largest employer. She had been engaged to marry, but her fianc\u00e9 died during World War II. To escape the memories of her hometown, she moved to Washington, D.C. in 1943, working in a variety of federal offices until she met Nixon while she was a secretary to the House Select Committee on Foreign Aid. Impressed by his neatness and efficiency, she accepted his job offer in 1951.\nWoods developed a very close relationship with the Nixon family, especially with First Lady Pat Nixon. She accompanied Vice President Nixon on his 1958 goodwill tour of South America but was injured by flying glass in the attack on Nixon's motorcade.\nSecretary to the President of the United States.\nWoods was President Nixon's personal secretary, the same position that she held from the time that he hired her until the end of his lengthy political career.\nFiercely loyal to Nixon, Woods claimed responsibility in a 1974 grand jury testimony for inadvertently erasing up to five minutes of the 18\u00bd minute gap on a June 20, 1972, audio tape. Her demonstration of how this might have occurred, in which she stretched to simultaneously press controls several feet apart (what the press dubbed the \"Rose Mary Stretch\"), was met with skepticism from those who believed the erasures to be deliberate.\nAn expert analysis of the tapes conducted in January 1974 revealed that there were four or five separate erasures, and perhaps as many as nine. The contents of the gaps remain unknown.\nAfter Nixon's resignation from the presidency, Woods maintained a sort of secret shrine to his memory in the Executive Office Building until she was ordered to remove it.\nDeath.\nWoods died on January 22, 2005, at McCrea Manor, a nursing home in Alliance, Ohio, near her hometown. A memorial service was held at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library and Museum in Yorba Linda, California. She had remained unmarried and had no children. "}
{"id": "756371", "revid": "122189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756371", "title": "MARC 21", "text": ""}
{"id": "756372", "revid": "44313162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756372", "title": "Military Council of National Salvation", "text": "The Military Council of National Salvation (, abbreviated to WRON) was a military junta administering the Polish People's Republic during the period of martial law in Poland between 1981 and 1983.\nIt was headed by General and First Secretary of the Polish United Workers' Party Wojciech Jaruzelski. It is also the only military junta to ever take charge of an Eastern Bloc nation, as all other contemporaries were headed by political communists rather than their military counterparts. Depending on the classification of the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin, Jaruzelski's rule (1981-1990) was also either the only one or one of two times in history where a communist nation was led by a career army commander.\nHistory.\nThe body was created on 13 December 1981, and was dissolved on 22 July 1983. It consisted of 21 members: fifteen generals, one admiral and five colonels. Among the most notable members were generals Wojciech Jaruzelski, Florian Siwicki, Micha\u0142 Janiszewski and Czes\u0142aw Kiszczak. One member, Lt. Col. Miros\u0142aw Hermaszewski, was included without his consent or knowledge.\nIn the beginning of 1982, the Citizens' Committees of National Salvation were formed, composed mostly of PZPR members. In July 1982, they joined the newly formed Patriotic Movement for National Rebirth.\nThe lettering of the Polish acronym (WRON; meaning a crow in Polish) was immediately picked up by those that the regime sought to repress and widely used in a form of non-violent opposition through jokes. One saying was that \"or\u0142a wrona nie pokona\" ('the crow won't defeat the eagle', a white eagle being the national symbol of Poland).\nAftermath.\nIn 2006, the Chief Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nation accused WRON members of committing a communist crime. On January 12, 2012, the Warsaw District Court upheld the indictment that WRON was an unlawful criminal armed enterprise which was formed and acted in violation of the Polish constitution. According to the court, the conspiratory group consisted of Wojciech Jaruzelski, Czes\u0142aw Kiszczak, Florian Siwicki and Tadeusz Tuczapski. Only Kiszczak was arraigned and convicted (4 years of imprisonment, halved under the amnesty, 5 years probation) and proceedings against the rest were suspended or discontinued due to poor health or death of the defendants."}
{"id": "756375", "revid": "50672825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756375", "title": "Almendra (band)", "text": "Almendra was one of the most important rock groups from Buenos Aires, Argentina in the late 1960s.\nLed by guitarist and lyricist Luis Alberto Spinetta, Almendra released between 1968 and 1971 a few singles and two albums \u2013 \"Almendra\" and \"Almendra II\" \u2013 that revolutionized the sound of Argentine rock for the remainder of the 20th century and almost single-handedly changed the way local rock music was perceived by critics and audiences. Widely compared to The Beatles by their local contemporaries, Almendra did not survive the 1960s and the making of a planned rock opera, though all individual members went on to form the backbone of Argentine rock in the 1970s.\nFormation.\nAlmendra was formed in 1968 after the breakup of three teenage school groups: Los Sbirros, Los Mods and Los Larkins. The initial rehearsals were held at Spinetta's house in Belgrano, an upper-middle-class neighbourhood of Buenos Aires. By mid-1968, they met producer Ricardo Kleiman, who signed them to record a single. Kleiman was the owner of the clothing shop \"Modart\" and ran a radio show, \"Modart en la Noche\" (\"Modart at Night\"), that aired the latest international releases of beat and rock music.\nOn September 20, 1968, \"Tema de Pototo\" (a.k.a. \"Para saber c\u00f3mo es la soledad\") b/w \"El mundo entre las manos\" was released. \"Tema de Pototo\" is a beat ballad about a friend they thought was dead. Both sides feature orchestral arrangements by Rodolfo Alchourr\u00f3n, at the request of the producer. By the end of 1968, \"Hoy todo el hielo en la ciudad\" (with fuzz guitar work by Edelmiro), reach the stores. The b-side features \"Campos verdes\" for which a promotional film was made.\nAlmendra played during the summer at the beginning of 1969 in Mar del Plata, a resort city 400\u00a0km south of Buenos Aires. Their debut in Buenos Aires was on 24 March, at the di Tella Institute, the centre of avant-garde 60s culture in Argentina. Almendra spent the rest of the year performing at different venues, until 21 September, first day of Spring and Student's Day in Argentina, when they played at the \"Pinap Festival\". \"Pinap\" was a beat magazine, and the Festival was the first major event of Argentine rock.\nFirst album.\nMeanwhile, the group was recording their debut album. An odd event marked the completion of it. Spinetta had drawn an enigmatic face for the cover. Days afterward, the record company claimed that the drawing had been lost, so they were planning to use a photo of the group instead. Obviously upset, the musicians looked for the lost drawing and eventually found it discarded in the garbage. Spinetta had stayed up all night reproducing his original artwork and took it to the record company the following day. The company offered no excuses the second time. The debut album was finally released on 29 November 1969. Along with the famous drawing, it included an insert with lyrics and technical information. The black and white back cover pictured the group live at the Pinap Festival.\nBy the end of 1969 the record company released a new single featuring \"Tema de Pototo\" and \"Final\". The latter was originally scheduled to end their debut album, but could not make it due to time length limitations. The group wanted \"Gabinetes espaciales\" to be the a-side of this single but RCA wished to promote \"Pototo\" instead. \"Gabinetes espaciales\" was eventually included on the compilation LP \"Mis conjuntos preferidos\" (RCA Vik 3836).\nIn early 1970 another single was released with two songs from the album. Meanwhile, Spinetta was working on a highly ambitious project: a rock opera about humanity's inner search. But while they were working on this new album the group split.\nDouble album.\nOn 19 December 1970, \"Almendra II\" (a.k.a. \"Almendra double album\") was released, along with a new single taken from it. The 2-LP set included only traces of the unfinished opera but was full of songs that previewed what the members of the group (especially Emilio and Edelmiro) would do next. Although Spinetta was the main composer of the first album and most of the singles, it was clear that his fellow musicians had their own ideas as well.\nSide A begins with \"Toma el tren hacia el sur\" featuring an Edelmiro guitar solo. Next to the short and simple \"Jingle\", a Molinari guitar composition (\"No tengo idea\") follows. \"Camino dif\u00edcil\", was written by Emilio. The steady rock of \"Rutas Argentinas\" (a popular song on live shows), the dark \"Vete de m\u00ed, cuervo negro\", and two more Molinari compositions: \"Aire de amor\" (prefiguring the style of \"Color Humano\") and \"Mestizo\" complete this side. Side B features the 14-minutes-long \"Agnus Dei\" and \"Para ir\". Side C includes \"Parvas\", \"Cometa azul\", \"Florecen los nardos\" and Del G\u00fcercio's rhythm ballad \"Carmen\". Side D begins with \"Obertura\" (obviously the ill-fated opera's overture), followed by the country-folk \"Amor de aire\" and \"Verde llano\" (both written by Edelmiro). This last side continues with \"Leves instrucciones\", sung by Emilio &amp; Luis Alberto and \"Los elefantes\". \"Un p\u00e1jaro te sostiene\"\u2014a rock number written by Del G\u00fcercio\u2014and Spinetta's guitar oriented \"En las c\u00fapulas\" close the album.\nAftermath.\nAlmendra's split produced the bands Aquelarre, Color Humano, and Pescado Rabioso.\nYears later, on 7 and 8 December 1979, Almendra reunited to play live at the Obras Sanitarias Stadium in Buenos Aires. These highly successful shows led to a big tour including various cities of Argentina and Uruguay. A 2-set live album\u2014\"Almendra en Obras\" (Almendra ML 712 &amp; 713), and a studio album of new material\u2014\"El valle interior\" (Almendra ML 135)\u2014were also released, this time on their own independent label.\nSome notable compilations are 1972's \"Almendra\" (series Rock Progresivo) (RCA Vik LZ-1227) and 1977's \"Muchacha, ojos de papel\" (RCA AVS-4765). Both include singles. A rare 4-song EP with PS (RCA Vik 3ZE-3704) also exists. Also, a now rare book titled \"Almendra\", featuring poems and drawings was published in 1970. All records were re-issued on CD. [Note: CD \"Cronolog\u00eda 1\" includes the first RCA album plus all the singles and CD \"Cronolog\u00eda 2\"\u2014now out of print\u2014includes all the songs of the second album in chronological recording order, except the songs released as singles (since they are already included on \"Cronolog\u00eda 1\"). This way, these 2 CDs feature the Complete Almendra recordings on RCA. Also, the double RCA second album was later released as a 2-CD set with its complete original running order. BMG released a 4-CD Box with all their studio recordings.\nOn 4 December 2009 Almendra reunited for five songs \u2014\"Color humano\", \"Ferm\u00edn\", \"A estos hombres tristes\", \"Hermano Perro\" and \"Muchacha (Ojos de papel)\"\u2014 as part of the \"\" (Spinetta and The Eternal Bands) concert in the V\u00e9lez Sarsfield Stadium in Buenos Aires.\nLuis Alberto Spinetta died from lung cancer at the age of 62 on 8 February 2012. On 4 May 2021, the band's former drummer, Rodolfo Garc\u00eda, died at the age of 75 from a stroke."}
{"id": "756377", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756377", "title": "Frankenstein (1931)", "text": ""}
{"id": "756378", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756378", "title": "Done In The Open", "text": ""}
{"id": "756380", "revid": "372290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756380", "title": "Joan Coromines", "text": "Joan Coromines i Vigneaux (; also frequently spelled \"Joan Corominas\"; Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain 1905 \u2013 Pineda de Mar, Catalonia, Spain, 1997) was a linguist who made important contributions to the study of Catalan, Spanish, and other Romance languages.\nHis main works are the \"Diccionario cr\u00edtico etimol\u00f3gico de la lengua castellana\" (1954\u20131957), in four volumes, first version of his etymological dictionary of Spanish (with an abridged version, \"Breve diccionario etimol\u00f3gico de la lengua castellana\", first published in 1961); the \"Diccionari etimol\u00f2gic i complementari de la llengua catalana\", which investigates the origin of most words in the Catalan language (9 volumes); the \"Onomasticon Cataloniae\", documenting place and person names, old and new, in all the Catalan-speaking territories (8 volumes); and, with Jos\u00e9 Antonio Pascual, the \"Diccionario cr\u00edtico etimol\u00f3gico castellano e hisp\u00e1nico\", the most thorough etymological dictionary of Spanish extant today. Following this research, he\u2014along with Koldo Mitxelena\u2014made key contributions to the study of the Basque language's geographical extent across the Pyrenees during the early Middle Ages.\nBiography.\nJoan Coromines was the son of politician Pere Coromines and pedagogue Celestina Vigneaux, and the brother of mathematician Ernest Corominas and psychoanalyst J\u00falia Coromines. \nFrom an early age, he showed interest in linguistics. He studied at the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters of the University of Barcelona and completed further studies in several European cities between 1925 and 1929, including Montpellier (where he had to take refuge due to his opposition to the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera), Madrid (where he pursued his doctorate), and Zurich, where he studied with Jakob Jud, who had a strong influence on him. He also attended classes by professors such as Grammont and Millardet in Montpellier, and Am\u00e9rico Castro and Ram\u00f3n Men\u00e9ndez Pidal in Madrid. \nIn 1930 he joined the Institut d'Estudis Catalans, working on Pompeu Fabra\u2019s lexicographic team. The following year he defended his doctoral thesis, \"Vocabulario aran\u00e9s\", and began preparing the \"Onomasticon Cataloniae\", a monumental etymological compilation of Catalan toponyms based on oral surveys, which he completed near the end of his life. \nA declared Catalanist, republican, and opponent of Franco, he went into exile after the Spanish Civil War, living in several countries before obtaining a chair at the University of Chicago in 1946. In Argentina, he founded the Institute of Linguistics at the National University of Cuyo in Mendoza, where he also launched the journal \"Anales del Instituto de Ling\u00fc\u00edstica\". He became an associate member of the Institut d'Estudis Catalans in 1950 and formally joined in 1952, when he returned to Spain temporarily after thirteen years abroad. \nAfter retiring from Chicago in 1967, he settled in Pineda de Mar (Catalonia) and dedicated himself entirely to his lexicographical work. He refused several prizes from the Spanish government, in protest at the treatment of the Catalan language and culture in Spain. \nBetween 1980 and 1991 he published the \"Diccionari etimol\u00f2gic i complementari de la llengua catalana\". He was awarded the Premi d\u2019Honor de les Lletres Catalanes (1984) and the Spanish National Prize for Literature (1989). Although he accepted the latter, he expressed in a public letter his criticism of the Spanish government\u2019s policies toward the Catalan language. For similar reasons he declined both the Grand Cross of the Civil Order of Alfonso X the Wise and membership in the Royal Spanish Academy. \nIn October 1994, at the age of 89, he finished the \"Onomasticon Cataloniae\" with the assistance of collaborators including Xavier Terrado, Joseph Gulsoy, Philip D. Rasico, and Joan Ferrer. The first volume appeared in 1989, and the eighth and final one was published posthumously. \nThe Coromines Foundation has been editing his extensive correspondence, which will eventually comprise around 25 volumes. Letters with Pompeu Fabra, Francesc de B. Moll, Josep Pla, Joan Fuster, Carles Riba, Joan Sales, and others have already been published. Another volume, prepared by Jos\u00e9 Antonio Pascual and Jos\u00e9 Ignacio P\u00e9rez Pascual, contains his correspondence with Ram\u00f3n Men\u00e9ndez Pidal between 1939 and 1955. \nCoromines was also named an honorary member of the Basque Language Academy in 1994. Today, his name is commemorated by schools and public spaces in Barcelona, Matar\u00f3, Benicarl\u00f3, and Pineda de Mar. \nIn honor of Coromines, in April 2006 the University of Chicago inaugurated the C\u00e0tedra Joan Coromines d'Estudis Catalans, a teaching chair for visiting professors of Catalan language and literature. "}
{"id": "756382", "revid": "1292837521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756382", "title": "Turkish music (style)", "text": "Turkish music, in the sense described here, is not the music of Turkey, but rather a musical style that was occasionally used by European composers, most notably during the Classical era of Western art music. This music was modelled\u2014though often only distantly\u2014on the music of Turkish military bands, specifically the Janissary bands.\nAlthough the \"Turkish style\" (\"alla turca\") reached its height during the Classical period, composers as far back as the middle Baroque era had already written musical pieces in homage to Turkish military bands, such as Jean-Baptiste Lully's \"Marche pour la C\u00e9r\u00e9monie des Turcs\" from \"Le Bourgeois gentilhomme\".\nHistory.\nAn important impetus for Turkish music occurred in 1699, when Austria and the Ottoman Empire negotiated the Treaty of Karlowitz. To celebrate the treaty, the Turkish diplomatic delegation brought a Janissary band along with other performers to Vienna for several days of performances.\nAlthough the Janissary sound was familiar in Europe during the 18th century, the Classical composers were not the first to make use of it; rather, the first imitators were military bands. The cultural influence at first involved actual importation of Turkish musicians, as Henry George Farmer relates:\nThe importation of actual musicians was only a temporary phenomenon, and the later custom was to assign the Turkish instruments in European military bands to other performers.\nThus, Turkish music in Europe had two connotations\u2014Eastern and military\u2014for 17th- and 18th-century European composers. The Turkish association did not evaporate soon. Even during the 1820s, in planning the last movement of the Ninth Symphony, Beethoven made a note to himself specifically stating that it would contain \"Turkish\" music. The use of the slang term \"Turkish section\" to describe the percussion section of an orchestra apparently persisted into modern times.\nEventually it became possible to write music with bass drum, triangle, cymbals, and piccolo without evoking a Turkish atmosphere, and in the later 19th century symphonic composers made free use of these instruments. Thus, in the long run, the Turkish instruments are a gift to Western classical music from the Ottoman military music tradition.\nDescription.\nTurkish music (in the sense just given) is always lively in tempo and is almost always a kind of march.\nWhen Turkish music was scored for orchestra, it normally used extra percussion instruments not otherwise found in orchestras of the time: typically, the bass drum, the triangle, and cymbals. These instruments were used by Ottoman Turks in their military music, so at least the instrumentation of \"Turkish\" music was authentic except for the triangle. Often there is also a piccolo, whose piercing tone recalls the shrill sound of the zurna (shawm) of Ottoman Janissary music.\nIt seems that at least part of the entertainment value of \"Turkish\" music was the perceived exoticism. The Turks were well known to the citizens of Vienna (where Mozart, Haydn, and Beethoven all worked) as military opponents, and indeed the centuries of warfare between Austria and Ottoman Empire had only started going generally in Austria's favor around the late 17th century. The differences in culture, as well as the frisson derived from the many earlier Turkish invasions, apparently gave rise to a fascination among the Viennese for all things Turkish\u2014or even ersatz Turkish. This was part of a general trend in European arts at the time; see Turquerie.\nExamples.\nAll three of the great Classical era composers, Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven, wrote Turkish music. For sound files illustrating some of these works, see the \"External links\" section below.\nOthers.\nTurkish music also appears in works of Jean-Philippe Rameau, Michael Haydn (Marcia turchesca, MH 601), Gioacchino Rossini, Ludwig Spohr, in two operas of Gluck \u2013 \"Die Pilger von Mekka\" (1764) and \"Iphigenie auf Tauris\" (1779) \u2013 and in Symphony No. 6 in A minor (\"Sinfonie turque\") by Friedrich Witt (1770\u20131836). Paul Wranitzky, who in his lifetime was one of Vienna's most famed composers also wrote Turkish influenced music, including a large-scale symphony. Franz Xaver S\u00fcssmayr, best known for completing Mozart's unfinished \"Requiem\", also composed several Turkish works, including operas and symphonies (his \"Sinfonia turchesca\" for example). Other composers who have written excellent examples of Turkish music include Joseph Martin Kraus, Ferdinand Kauer, Carel Anton Fodor (\"Rondo alla turque\" from his concerto for keyboard Op. 12) and Ferdinando Paer.\nMusical characteristics.\nIn Turkish music, the percussion instruments often play this rhythm:\n\\new RhythmicStaff {\n \\clef percussion\n \\time 2/4\n c4 r c r c c c r \\bar \"||\"\n&lt;/score&gt;\nThis is the same rhythm as the marching cadence of soldiers: \"Left ... left ... left, right, left ...\"\nThe melodic instruments in Turkish music often emphasize the rhythm by playing grace notes, either singly or several in succession, on the beat.\nBoth characteristics just mentioned can be seen in the following extract of Turkish music in the Mozart's Violin Concerto No. 5:\nThe military rhythm and grace notes are also seen in left hand part for this passage from the Turkish music in Mozart's K. 331 piano sonata, mentioned above:\nThe role of Turkish music in a larger work seems to be to serve as a form of musical relaxation. Thus, in the finale of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, the Turkish march serves as a period of lowered intensity between two more massive and emotionally charged sections. Turkish music commonly is found in finales, which (as Charles Rosen point out) are typically the most relaxed and loosely organized movements of Classical works.\nThe \"Turkish stop\" on early pianos.\nAround the turn of the 19th century, \"Turkish\" music was so popular that piano manufacturers made special pianos with a \"Turkish stop,\" also called the \"military\" or \"Janissary\" stop. The player would press a pedal that caused a bell to ring and/or a padded hammer to strike the soundboard in imitation of a bass drum. The sound file for the first musical example above attempts to mimic the latter effect manually with a modern piano.\nAccording to Edwin M. Good, the Turkish stop was popular for playing the Mozart K. 331 rondo, and \"many were the pianists who gleefully used the Janissary stop to embellish it.\"\nExternal links.\nLinks with sound files of works cited"}
{"id": "756383", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756383", "title": "Kim K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m", "text": "Kim Mikael K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m (; born 24 August 1982) is a Swedish former professional footballer who played as a midfielder. He was noted for his play-making ability and free-kick taking.\nHe started his career at several clubs in Sweden, winning consecutive Allsvenskan titles with Djurg\u00e5rdens IF before moving to France where he represented Rennes and Lyon. K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m won a range of domestic honours with Lyon and joined Spartak Moscow in 2012. He spent the second half of the 2013\u201314 season on loan at Arsenal, where he won the 2013\u201314 FA Cup after converting a penalty in the semi-final. K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m left Spartak in 2015 to join Grasshoppers, where he had a 49 game long spell before ending his career at Djurg\u00e5rdens IF together with close friend Andreas Isaksson.\nK\u00e4llstr\u00f6m earned 131 caps for Sweden since his debut in 2001 until 2016 when he announced his departure from international football, making him their fourth most capped player of all time. He played in four European Championships (Euro 2004, Euro 2008, Euro 2012, and Euro 2016) and the 2006 FIFA World Cup.\nEarly life.\nK\u00e4llstr\u00f6m was born in Sandviken 24 August 1982 to footballer Mikael and Ann K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m. In 1986, he joined the local Sandvikens IF football team. In 1989, the family moved to Partille outside Gothenburg and K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m started to play for the local club Partille IF. When K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m was 17 years old he had a trial with Dutch club PSV.\nClub career.\nEarly career.\nK\u00e4llstr\u00f6m began his professional career with BK H\u00e4cken from Gothenburg. In his first season, the club gained promotion the Allsvenskan by winning the Division 1 S\u00f6dra. H\u00e4cken were relegated to the Superettan in 2001, but K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m's eight Allsvenskan goals earned him a transfer to Djurg\u00e5rdens IF for SEK5m.\nDjurg\u00e5rdens IF.\nIn his first season at Djurg\u00e5rden, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m won the double of the Allsvenskan and the national cup tournament Svenska Cupen, and was the team's top scorer with twelve league goals. The team defended its Allsvenskan title in 2003, with K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m's 14 goals making him the team's top goalscorer and the second-highest goalscorer in Sweden.\nHe scored twice during the 2002\u201303 UEFA Cup, in fixtures against Shamrock Rovers and Copenhagen.\nRennes.\nIn the January 2004 transfer window, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m moved to the French Ligue 1 club Rennes. He made his debut for the club in the Coupe de France against Angers on 4 January and his first Ligue 1 appearance in a 2\u20130 defeat at Toulouse on 10 January. A week later, he scored his first goal in French football during a 4\u20130 win over Sochaux at the Route de Lorient. He ended the 2003\u201304 season with seven goals from 18 appearances, including two in a 4\u20131 away win against Champions League finalists Monaco.\nDuring the 2004\u201305 season, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m scored five times in 31 Ligue 1 matches to help Rennes finish fourth and qualify for the following season's UEFA Cup. On 5 February 2005, he received his first red card in French football in a 3\u20131 defeat at Marseille.\nIn 2005\u201306, he scored a career-best eight Ligue 1 goals, many of which came in fixtures against some of the biggest clubs in France. In June 2006, Rennes accepted a bid of around \u20ac8\u00a0million for the player from league champions Lyon.\nK\u00e4llstr\u00f6m ended his two-and-a-half-year spell at Rennes with 20 goals from 83 league appearances.\nLyon.\nAfter a successful spell at Rennes, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m signed for Lyon in June 2006, and went on to win a number of honours with the southern club.\nHis Lyon debut saw him score the equalising goal as \"les Gones\" won the Troph\u00e9e des Champions against Paris Saint-Germain on penalties. Five days later, he made his league debut against Nantes in a 3\u20131 win.\nOn 17 October 2006, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m scored his first Lyon goal in a 3\u20130 win against Dynamo Kyiv in Champions League. After ending the group stage unbeaten \u2013 including a defeat of nine times champions Real Madrid at the Stade de Gerland \u2013 Lyon were knocked out in the round-of-16 by Roma.\nOn 22 October, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m scored his first Ligue 1 goal for the club in a 4\u20131 \"Choc des Olympiques\" derby defeat of Marseille at the Stade V\u00e9lodrome. He scored further goals in league wins against Saint-\u00c9tienne and Nancy as Lyon won the French championship for the sixth consecutive season.\nOn 31 March 2008, he appeared as a 68th-minute substitute as Lyon were beaten 1\u20130 by Bordeaux in the 2008 Coupe de la Ligue Final.\nThe 2007\u201308 season began with Valencia rumoured to be interested in signing K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m from Lyon, who wanted to keep the player despite the \u20ac13\u00a0million offer. K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m remained at Lyon and, in the second round of the Ligue 1 season, was sent off after spitting towards a linesman during a 1\u20130 loss at Toulouse.\nOn 29 September 2007, he scored his first goal of the season in a 3\u20130 victory against Lens. A week later, he scored again in a 3\u20131 win at Bordeaux. On 8 November, he scored in a 4\u20132 Champions League defeat of VfB Stuttgart. However, Lyon were again knocked out in the round-of-16, losing to eventual winners Manchester United 2\u20131 on aggregate in March 2008.\nOn 2 December 2007, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m scored two goals and assisted another as Lyon beat Strasbourg 5\u20130 at the Gerland. On the final day of the league season, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m scored in a 3\u20131 win at Auxerre to secure a seventh league title. On 28 May 2008, he started in the 2008 Coupe de France Final as Lyon completed the club's first league and cup double with a 1\u20130 win against Paris Saint-Germain at the Stade de France.\nOn 16 November 2008, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m scored his first goal of the 2008\u201309 season in a 2\u20131 win over championship rivals Bordeaux to put Lyon seven points clear at the top of the Ligue 1 table. His only other goal came in a 1\u20131 draw with his former club Rennes on 1 March 2009. Poor late season form saw OL slip to third in the table, with Bordeaux winning the championship on the final day of the season.\nK\u00e4llstr\u00f6m scored four goals in Ligue 1 during the 2009\u201310 season. His first goal came in a 2\u20130 win against Lens on 3 October 2009. On 20 January 2010, he scored twice in a 3\u20131 win at Lorient. His final goal was scored in a 2\u20132 draw with Valenciennes on the penultimate matchday of the season.\nOn 8 November 2009, he started in a 5\u20135 \"Choc des Olympiques\" draw with Marseille. OM went on to win the league title, with Lyon six points behind in second place.\nThe 2009\u201310 Champions League saw Lyon have the club's most successful season in the competition. K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m scored in a 4\u20130 win at Hungarian champions Debreceni and made eleven appearances overall, helping \"les Gones\" reach the semi-finals where they lost to Bayern Munich.\nDuring 2010\u201311, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m occasionally provided cover at left-back, in addition to his favoured midfield role. He scored three goals in Ligue 1, including the equaliser against eventual champions Lille in a 1\u20131 draw.\nThe 2011\u201312 season was K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m's last at the club. He made 32 appearances in Ligue 1 without scoring.\nIn the Coupe de France, he scored one goal and assisted another as Lyon knocked out Paris Saint-Germain with a 3\u20131 win at the Parc des Princes at the quarter-final stage. A 4\u20130 win against Ajaccio in the semi-finals put OL into the 2012 Coupe de France Final, where K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m played the full 90 minutes in a 1\u20130 win over Quevilly. Lyon also reached the final of the 2011\u201312 Coupe de la Ligue, with K\u00e4llstrom scoring in the quarter-final defeat of Lille. However, Lyon's chances of a cup double were ended by a 1\u20130 extra time defeat by Marseille.\nIn August 2012, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m left Lyon after six seasons. Overall, he made 283 appearances for the club, winning two Ligue 1 titles, two Coupes de France and two Troph\u00e9es des Champions. He was also a runner-up in the Coupe de la Ligue on two occasions.\nSpartak Moscow.\nOn 28 July 2012, it was announced that K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m had signed with Spartak Moscow for \u20ac3\u00a0million plus \u20ac600,000 in potential add-ons. On 15 September, he made his Russian Premier League debut in a 2\u20132 draw with Kuban Krasnodar. On 29 September, he scored his first goal for the club in a 3\u20131 against Amkar Perm.\nHe played in all of Spartak's 2012\u201313 UEFA Champions League group matches, receiving a red card in a 2\u20131 defeat at Celtic on 5 December 2012.\nLoan to Arsenal.\nOn 31 January 2014, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m joined Arsenal on loan for the remainder of the 2013\u201314 season. Although a back injury was discovered during his medical, it was decided K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m would still join and undergo his rehabilitation at Arsenal. K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m made his debut for Arsenal on 25 March against Swansea City in the Premier League, coming on in the 79th minute as a substitute for Tom\u00e1\u0161 Rosick\u00fd. His next appearance came two weeks later in the FA Cup semi-finals against defending champions Wigan Athletic. Introduced as an extra-time substitute, he scored Arsenal's second spot kick in their 4\u20132 penalty shoot-out win which saw them advance to the final. K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m has gone on to describe this moment as \"the greatest 15 minutes of my life.\" Three days later, he made his first start for Arsenal in a 3\u20131 victory against West Ham United. Arsenal went on to win the FA Cup; K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m was not in the match day squad for the final. After making four appearances in all competitions, it was announced that K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m would not return to Arsenal once his loan spell with them expired at the end of the season. Despite only making four appearances, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m said he enjoyed his time at Arsenal.\nGrasshoppers.\nAfter three years in Russia, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m left Spartak and signed for Swiss Super League club Grasshoppers on 6 June 2015. He scored his only goal for the club on 29 November 2015, the final goal in a 5\u20130 win against city rivals FC Z\u00fcrich. K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m was also named captain upon his arrival at the side. After one and a half years, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m wanted to leave Grasshoppers, citing personal reasons and dissatisfaction with the club's results. He subsequently ended his contract with the club by mutual consent on 31 January 2017.\nReturn to Djurg\u00e5rdens IF and retirement.\nOn 10 February, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m returned to Djurg\u00e5rdens IF in Allsvenskan, signing a two-year deal with the club. K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m was immediately handed his old number 16. The club's announcement of signing K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m lead to a crash of the official website of Djurg\u00e5rden, dif.se, due to the number of visitors on the website. After playing 28 league games in 2017, scoring three goals and providing seven assists, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m announced his retirement from football on 15 December that year.\nInternational career.\nK\u00e4llstr\u00f6m made his international debut in 2001 against Finland. He made the Swedish squad for the UEFA Euro 2004, 2006 FIFA World Cup, UEFA Euro 2008, and UEFA Euro 2012 tournaments.\nHe also scored Sweden's first goal in the 3\u20132 win over the Netherlands to take the \"Bl\u00e5gult\" to Euro 2012.\nIn a 2014 World Cup qualifier against Germany on 16 October 2012, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m was brought on as a substitute for Pontus Wernbloom at half time with Sweden losing 3\u20130. Despite conceding another goal, with three assists from him, Sweden earned a 4\u20134 draw.\nIn the return match against Germany, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m comforted Max, a team mascot who suffers from Williams Syndrome, and a photo of this went viral on social media. Max's father Emil wrote to K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m, expressing his thanks. He said: \"Because of your actions, Kim, my son could experience precisely the same emotions as everyone else who has been a mascot: pride, a sense of being special, 'I did it' and an immense joy.\"\nK\u00e4llstr\u00f6m retired from the national team after Euro 2016, having amassed 131 caps, scoring 16 goals. He is Sweden's fourth most capped player.\nPlaying style.\nA central midfielder who could also play on the left side of midfield as a wide midfielder, K\u00e4llstr\u00f6m had the potential to work as a deep-lying playmaker or as a more attacking influence. He was also known for his left-footed free kick ability.\nHonours.\nBK H\u00e4cken\nDjurg\u00e5rden\nLyon\nArsenal\nIndividual"}
{"id": "756384", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756384", "title": "Adolfo Luque", "text": ""}
{"id": "756385", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756385", "title": "Dolf Luque", "text": "Adolfo Domingo De Guzm\u00e1n Luque (August 4, 1890 \u2013 July 3, 1957) was a Cuban starting pitcher in Major League Baseball (MLB) from to . He spent 12 seasons of his career (1918\u20131929) with the Cincinnati Reds. Luque was not only the first Latin American pitcher in MLB, but also the first to earn a World Series win (in 1919), and the first to lead the majors in wins, shutouts and earned run average (ERA).\nA native of Havana, Luque played winter baseball in the Cuban League from 1912 to 1945 and was also a long-time manager in the league, leading Almendares to eight championships over 19 seasons. Along with his contemporary Miguel \u00c1ngel Gonz\u00e1lez, he is considered one of the best Cuban baseball managers of all time. Additionally, he managed in the Mexican League in all or parts of eight seasons spanning 1946\u20131956.\nLuque was enshrined in the Cuban Baseball Hall of Fame in 1957 and the Cincinnati Reds Hall of Fame in 1967, as well as in the Mexican Baseball Hall of Fame in 1985.\nPlaying career.\nLuque made his professional debut in Cuba for the Habana baseball club against a Major League opponent, the Philadelphia Phillies, in an exhibition series in the fall of 1911. He left the game after 8 innings with his team ahead 6\u20135, but his reliever failed to hold the lead and left Luque with a no decision. He then pitched against the New York Giants, going 1\u20132, getting the only win for Habana in six games. He debuted in the Cuban League in the winter of 1912, but went 0\u20134, 0\u20132, and 2\u20134 his first three seasons. In 1914/15 he moved to Almendares and had his first winning season, going 7\u20134. The following season he led the league in wins with a 12\u20135 record. The next winter, 1917, he tied for the league lead in wins and also led in hitting with a .355 average.\nLuque made his major league debut with the Boston Braves in 1914. In 1918, he was traded to the Cincinnati Reds, with whom he played the next 12 seasons. In the notorious 1919 World Series, he appeared in two games as a relief pitcher. Luque also played for the Brooklyn Robins/Dodgers from 1930 to 1931 and with the New York Giants from 1932 to 1935. He was with the Giants in the 1933 World Series, and, pitching in relief, won the fifth and final game over the Washington Senators, thus becoming (at age 43) the oldest pitcher ever to win a World Series game. He ended his career with a record of 194\u2013179 and a 3.24 ERA.\nLuque was an above average hitting pitcher in his major league career, posting a .227 batting average (237-for-1043) with 96 runs, 5 home runs and 90 RBI. He also drew 70 bases on balls.\nLuque became a starting pitcher in 1920. Primarily pitching with a curveball, he led the National League in losses in 1922, then had his best year in 1923, leading the league with 27 wins and an ERA of 1.93. Luque also led the NL in ERA with a 2.63 in 1925. He was known as an adept mentor in the later years of his pitching career, and went on to become the pitching coach of the Giants from 1936 to 1938 and 1942 to 45.\nAs a blue-eyed, fair-skinned, white Cuban, he was one of several white Cubans to make it in Major League Baseball at a time when non-whites were excluded. Between 1911 and 1929 alone, seventeen Cuban-born Caucasian players played in the Major Leagues. Many of them, including Luque, also played Negro league baseball with integrated teams from Cuba. Luque played for Cuban Stars in 1912 and the Long Branch Cubans in 1913 before signing with organized baseball.\nLuque was known to have a temper. While with the Brooklyn Dodgers, a heckler in the stands hollered \"Lucky Luque! Lucky Luque!\" repeatedly. Luque went over to the dugout and told manager Wilbert Robinson, \"I tell you, Robbie, if this guy don't shut up, I'm gonna shut him up.\" \"Aw, come on, Dolf\", said the manager. \"He paid his way in\u2014let him boo.\" Just then the heckler spotted the rotund Robinson and yelled, \"Hey, fat belly!\" Robinson said, \"OK, Dolf\u2014go ahead and clobber the jerk.\" Luque obliged his manager's request.\nLuque also served as a coach at the major league level for seven seasons (1936\u20131937; 1941\u20131945) with the New York Giants, working under managers Bill Terry and Mel Ott. As a coach, Luque was a member of the Giants' and National League champion teams.\nManagerial career.\nLuque managed in the Mexican League for the Pericos de Puebla (1946\u20131947), Azules de Veracruz (1948), Tecolotes de Nuevo Laredo (1953\u20131955) and Leones de Yucat\u00e1n (1956). Besides, he managed the 1951 Habana Cubans of the Florida International League sandwiched between two stints with the \u00c1guilas de Mexicali in 1950 (Sunset League) and 1952 (Southwest International League).\nCuba.\nLuque was the only manager to head each of the \u201cbig four\u201d teams in the Cuban League; though the bulk of his career was spent with Almendares, he also managed Habana for three seasons (1924, 1955, 1956) and spent one season with Cienfuegos (which he led to a title in 1946) and Marianao.\nIn 1919/20 Luque became a playing manager for Almendares and led the team to a championship in his first season at the helm, the first of seven championships as a manager. He contributed on the pitching mound with a 10\u20134 record, leading the league in wins. In 1922/23 he moved to Habana (where Miguel Angel Gonz\u00e1lez was manager) and again led the league in wins with an 11\u20139 record. The next season, he took over the helm as Habana's manager and went 7\u20132 as a pitcher. Later in the decade, Luque's Major League team, the Cincinnati Reds, did not allow him to play winter baseball in Cuba. Luque sometimes evaded the ban by playing under assumed names.\nBy the 1930s, Luque had returned to Almendares as manager. He generally pitched only occasionally, though in 1934/35 he contributed as a pitcher to his second championship as a manager; he tied for the league lead in wins with a 6\u20132 record and led the league with a 1.27 ERA. As manager, he again led Almendares to championships in 1939/40, 1941/42, and 1942/43, led Cienfuegos to a championship in 1945/46, and returned to Almendares for his final championship in 1946/47. He continued to manage for various teams until 1955/56.\nLuque's career Cuban League pitching record was 106\u201371. Luque is the all-time Cuban League leader in years pitching with 22, ranking second behind Mart\u00edn Dihigo in wins with 106, and seventh in winning percentage with .599.\nLegacy.\nLuque is mentioned in Ernest Hemingway's 1952 novel \"The Old Man and the Sea\", when Hemingway writes \"Who is the greatest manager, really, Luque or Mike Gonzalez?.\"\nLuque died July 3, 1957, and is buried at Colon Cemetery, Havana."}
{"id": "756386", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756386", "title": "Horace Lurton", "text": ""}
{"id": "756387", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756387", "title": "Horace H. Lurton", "text": ""}
{"id": "756388", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756388", "title": "Christian Wilhelmsson", "text": "Christian Ulf \"Chippen\" Wilhelmsson (; born 8 December 1979) is a Swedish former professional footballer who played as a winger. Beginning his career with Mj\u00e4llby AIF in 1997, he went on to represent clubs in Norway, Belgium, France, Italy, Spain, England, Saudi Arabia, the United States, and Qatar before retiring at Mj\u00e4llby in 2015. Wilhelmsson won 79 caps for the Sweden national team between 2001 and 2012, and represented his country at the 2006 FIFA World Cup and at Euro 2004, 2008, and 2012. \nClub career.\nEarly years and Anderlecht.\nBorn in Malm\u00f6, Wilhelmsson started his career with Mj\u00e4llby AIF in 1997, playing in three second division seasons with the club. He then spent as many years in neighbouring Norway with Stab\u00e6k Fotball.\nIn the 2003 summer Wilhelmsson joined R.S.C. Anderlecht in Belgium, being an undisputed starter during his spell and scoring nine top division goals combined in the capital side's 2004 and 2006 league conquests.\nNantes.\nIn 2006, Wilhelmsson moved to the French Ligue 1 team FC Nantes.\nLoan to Roma.\nHowever, on 10 January of the following year, he joined A.S. Roma on loan until the end of the season, when the Italians had the option to buy for \u20ac3 million. He made his Serie A debut on 14 January against FC Messina, Roma did not take advantage of its option to buy and Wilhelmsson returned to Nantes after the season and immediately starting seeking a new club following the Canaries' relegation from Ligue 1.\nLoan to Bolton Wanderers.\nFollowing speculation about a move to various Premier League clubs or Scottish club Celtic, he signed for Bolton Wanderers on a 12-month loan, with an option to make the deal permanent after 20 games. He made 13 appearances all competitions comprised, mostly as a substitute, his debut coming in a 1\u20133 away defeat against Portsmouth. Wilhelmsson was instrumental in closing the club's signing of countryman Johan Elmander for a record transfer fee, for 2008\u201309.\nLoan to Deportivo La Coru\u00f1a.\nHe was again loaned by Nantes, this time moving to Spain and Deportivo de La Coru\u00f1a on 30 January 2008. He played his first La Liga match against Getafe CF, coming on as a substitute in a 1\u20131 home draw, and made his first start two rounds later, in a home fixture match against RCD Espanyol (2\u20130 home win). Wilhelmsson scored his first goal for \"Depor\" on 1 March 2008, in a 2\u20131 home win against Sevilla FC, and finished the campaign firmly established in the side's starting XI \u2013 he would start in 13 of his league appearances \u2013 as the Galicians eventually finished ninth and qualified to the UEFA Intertoto Cup.\nAl-Hilal.\nIn 2008, Wilhelmsson signed a three-year contract with Saudi club Al-Hilal FC for about \u20ac9 million. He helped the club win the league title in his second year, scoring nine goals and making ten assists in 20 appearances; for his contributions he received the Player of the Season award, going on to win four additional major titles during his tenure, including two consecutive Saudi Crown Prince Cup where he scored in both finals.\nLoan to Al Ahli.\nWilhelmsson spent the first half of 2011\u201312 on loan with Qatar's Al Ahli SC.\nLA Galaxy.\nWilhelmsson was announced as a LA Galaxy player on 5 September 2012. He scored in his Major League Soccer debut nine days later, in a 2\u20130 win against the Colorado Rapids.\nBaniyas.\nOn 14 January 2013, Wilhelmsson signed a one-and-a-half-year deal with Baniyas SC.\nReturn to Mj\u00e4llby AIF and retirement.\nWilhelmsson signed for Mj\u00e4llby AIF and made his Allsvenskan debut during the 2014 Allsvenskan season at the age of 34. After a short spell with former club Mj\u00e4llby, he officially announced his retirement. However, in August 2015, he came out of retirement to help the latter team retain their status in the Superettan, which was eventually not achieved.\nInternational career.\nGaining his first cap in 2001, Wilhelmsson represented Sweden at UEFA Euro 2004, Euro 2008, Euro 2012 and the 2006 FIFA World Cup, featuring in every one of the national team's four games in the latter tournament and starting in two.\nOn 4 September 2006 he was one of three international players sent home for breaking a curfew during a night out, the other two being Olof Mellberg and Zlatan Ibrahimovi\u0107. In March 2011, he was involved in a training ground scuffle with the latter.\nWilhelmsson scored his first brace for Sweden in a Euro 2012 qualifier against San Marino on 6 September 2011 (5\u20130 away win), for his seventh and eighth international goals. He was also selected for the finals in Poland and Ukraine by manager Erik Hamren, collecting three bench appearances in an eventual group stage exit.\nPersonal life.\nWilhelmsson married Russian-born model Oksana Andersson in May 2010, in Las Vegas. Aside from Swedish, he also speaks fluent English.\nHonours.\nAnderlecht\nRoma\nAl-Hilal\nLA Galaxy\nBaniyas\nSweden\nIndividual"}
{"id": "756389", "revid": "6727347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756389", "title": "Land mass", "text": ""}
{"id": "756391", "revid": "31793797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756391", "title": "Horace Harmon Lurton", "text": "Horace Harmon Lurton (February 26, 1844 \u2013 July 12, 1914) was an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States and previously was a United States circuit judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and of the United States Circuit Courts for the Sixth Circuit.\nEarly life.\nLurton was born on February 26, 1844, in Newport, Kentucky. He attended the Old University of Chicago, then received a Bachelor of Laws in 1867 from Cumberland School of Law (then part of Cumberland University, now part of Samford University).\nHe served in the Confederate States Army as a Sergeant Major with the 5th Tennessee Infantry at the age of 17, left for ill health, and later served as a private in the 2nd Kentucky Infantry and 3rd Kentucky Cavalry from 1862 to 1865. He was twice captured by Union forces, the second time sent as a prisoner of war to Johnson's Island Prison Camp in Sandusky Bay, Ohio. He claimed he was later paroled by President Lincoln because of pleas for mercy from his mother but this was merely an anecdote he often repeated to dinner guests, according to historian Roger Long. Mr. Long explains in detail what the evidence shows in an article he wrote in the December 1994 edition of Civil War Times. According to Mr. Long, apparently he was paroled from Johnson's Island only when he signed the oath of allegiance, not because of any act of the president. Mr Long's article includes interesting details about Lurton's service as well as possible reasons for the anecdote he was so fond of repeating.\nHe entered private practice in Clarksville, Tennessee from 1867 to 1875. He was Chancellor for the Tennessee Chancery Court for the Sixth Judicial District from 1875 to 1878. He resumed private practice in Clarksville from 1878 to 1886. He was a justice of the Tennessee Supreme Court from 1886 to 1893.\nU.S. Circuit Court.\nLurton was nominated by President Grover Cleveland on March 22, 1893, to a joint seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and the United States Circuit Courts for the Sixth Circuit vacated by Judge Howell Edmunds Jackson. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on March 27, 1893, and received his commission the same day. His service terminated on December 20, 1909, due to his elevation to the Supreme Court.\nConcurrent with his service on the Sixth Circuit, Lurton served as Dean of the law department of Vanderbilt University from 1905 to 1909.\nU.S. Supreme Court.\nOn December 13, 1909, President William Howard Taft nominated Lurton as an associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, to succeed Rufus W. Peckham. He was confirmed by the Senate on December 20, 1909, and was sworn into office on January 3, 1910. At 65 years old at the time of his initial appointment in 1909, he was the oldest associate justice ever by initial appointment.\nHe was Circuit Justice for the Second Circuit from January 10, 1910, until January 8, 1911, Circuit Justice for the Third Circuit from January 9, 1911, until March 17, 1912, and Circuit Justice for the Seventh Circuit from March 18, 1912, until July 12, 1914. His service terminated on July 12, 1914, due to his death in Atlantic City, New Jersey.\nLurton sided most frequently on the court with Associate Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., a progressive Supreme Court justice. The most notable opinion he authored was probably the opinion of the Court in \"Coyle v. Smith\", 221 U.S. 559 (1911), which held that the federal government could not tell a state where to locate its capital, as all states must be on \"equal footing.\"\nDeath.\nLurton's tenure on the Court was brief, as he served only four years before dying in Atlantic City, New Jersey of a heart attack on July 12, 1914. He is buried in Greenwood Cemetery in Clarksville, Tennessee.\nLegacy and honors.\nDuring World War II the Liberty ship was built in Brunswick, Georgia, and named in his honor."}
{"id": "756395", "revid": "1281872337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756395", "title": "Desmond Skirrow", "text": "John Desmond Skirrow (13 November 1923 \u2013 16 August 1976) was a British advertising executive and novelist.\nWriting career.\nSkirrow was born in Barry, South Wales. In 1963, Skirrow met Alida Haskins, who showed him the maquette of \"Cowboy Kate &amp; Other Stories\" by Sam Haskins, and he put words to the visual story devised by Sam and Alida. Alida introduced him to Sam's publisher, the Bodley Head in London, who went on to publish his thriller novels. Sam's next book, \"November Girl\", was published in 1966 and Skirrow provided the text for the melancholic visual story.\nWhile working as an advertising executive in the mid-1960s Skirrow commuted daily from Brighton to London, and he wrote 1,000 words a day until he had a 70,000-word novel. This was \"It Won't Get You Anywhere\", the first of three spy novels about fictional British agent John Brock. Like his creator, Brock works in advertising in London, but is also a part-time agent for an undercover department run by The Fat Man. Penthouse magazine said that both Brock and Skirrow were likeable, soft-hearted and rather shy. Skirrow denied that he and Brock had any similarity, noting that his hair was blonde and Brock's is black. According to Brian Ash, Skirrow \"resembled a latter-day Chesterton.\" Ruth Martin, writing for \"Books &amp; Bookmen\", described Skirrow as \"Tall, big, bearded and seemingly incapable of being serious for more than a few minutes at a time.\"\nTwo sequels followed: \"I Was Following This Girl\" and \"I'm Trying to Give It Up\", tough, irreverent, and witty. Punch called them \"the Chandler formula, basically, but louder and funnier.\" \"Penthouse\" said \"between the punch-ups and chases and killings paint a wildly amusing cynical-eye view of the glossy, hysterical world of advertising.\"\nSkirrow also wrote a children's book, \"The Case of The Silver Egg\", televised as \"The Queen Street Gang\", about the adventures of a group of boys tracking down a gang of villains. \"Books and Bookmen\" refers to an unpublished sequel.\nSkirrow's frequently anthologised poem \"Ode on a Grecian Urn Summarized\" parodies John Keats' Ode on a Grecian Urn. First published in the New Statesman in 1960, it appeared in the \"New Oxford Book of Light Verse\" edited by Kingsley Amis. Vanderbilt University coined the term \"Skirrowing\" for a terse parody of a great poetic work.\nBBC Radio 2 Woman's Hour serialised \"It Won't Get You Anywhere\" between 2 and 13 November 1970.\nAdvertising and art career.\nAfter World War II, Skirrow taught art in the countryside. In 1953 or 1954 he joined WS Crawford where he worked alongside Paul Peter Piech under Ashley Havinden.\nDuring the late 1950s and early 1960s, Skirrow illustrated book jackets for the British publishers Heinemann and Secker &amp; Warburg, including for Fred Hoyle's \"The Black Cloud\" , Max Shulman's \"Rally Round the Flag, Boys!\", James A. Michener's \"Hawaii\" and William L. Shirer's \"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\".\nIn 1962, David Bernstein, creative director at McCann Erickson, hired Skirrow and Robert Brownjohn as his deputy creative directors at its London office. Bernstein described Skirrow as \"a craftsman\".\nSkirrow was the Creative Director of major London advertising agency Masius Wynne-Williams, where his colleagues included novelist Christopher Wood and Murray Walker \u2013 Walker claims that he and Skirrow disliked each other intensely.\nDeath.\nHe died on 16 August 1976, aged 52, at The Avenue Clinic in Hove and was cremated at Downs Crematorium, Brighton, on 23 August 1976."}
{"id": "756397", "revid": "38722755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756397", "title": "Distributed data base", "text": ""}
{"id": "756399", "revid": "50141506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756399", "title": "Jaime Lusinchi", "text": "Jaime Ram\u00f3n Lusinchi (27 May 1924 \u2013 21 May 2014) was the president of Venezuela from 1984 to 1989. His term was characterized by an economic crisis, growth of the external debt, populist policies, currency depreciation, inflation and corruption that exacerbated the crisis of the political system established in 1958.\nAlthough accused of corruption after leaving office, Lusinchi was popular during his presidency, and was succeeded by a member of his Democratic Action political party, Carlos Andr\u00e9s P\u00e9rez.\nBackground.\nJaime Lusinchi was born in Clarines, Anzoategui, on 27 May 1924. His mother Mar\u00eda Angelica Lusinchi, who was of Italian-Corsican descent, gave him her family name. Growing up without the presence of a father, Lusinchi attended elementary school in his native Clarines and Puerto P\u00edritu, and high school at the Federal School of Barcelona, Anzo\u00e1tegui. In 1941 he began to study medicine at the University of the Andes in M\u00e9rida, but soon moved to Caracas continuing his career at the Central University of Venezuela graduating in 1947. He married Gladys Castillo in 1941.\nPolitical career.\nIn 1937, at the age of 13, Lusinchi joined the National Democratic Party, organization created by R\u00f3mulo Betancourt against the government of Eleazar L\u00f3pez Contreras. In 1941, Lusinchi was present at the foundation of the social democratic party Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica.\nDuring his time at college, Lusinchi stood out as a political activist, was secretary of the School Medicine Council, vice president of the Venezuelan Association of Youth and vice president of the Student Federation of Venezuela - an organization with Marxist influences that became part of the \"19 October 1945\" revolutionary movement which overthrew the government of Isa\u00edas Medina Angarita. In 1948, he was elected president of the Municipal Council of Freites District and president of the Legislative Assembly of Anzo\u00e1tegui, as well as regional secretary of Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica.\nAfter the overthrow of Venezuela's first democratically elected leader, R\u00f3mulo Gallegos, by a military-led coup on 24 November 1948, Lusinchi continued carrying out political activities whilst in hiding from the new military-dominated authorities. For a time he worked in a hospital belonging to the oil company Mene Grande in San Tom\u00e9 (Anzo\u00e1tegui state), however he soon moved to Caracas to avoid persecution by security forces who had already arrested him several times before.\nIn Caracas he was part of the clandestine organization of Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica which, in coordination with the leadership in exile, established an organised resistance to the military dictatorship. Lusinchi acquired responsibilities in the national secretariats of organization and propaganda, and was a member of the party's Political Bureau. In 1950 he was one of the organizers of the nationwide strike of oil workers. After the 1952 election fraud, which dissolved the Civilian-Military Junta and began the dictatorship of Marcos P\u00e9rez Jim\u00e9nez, Lusinchi was again captured and imprisoned at the National Security facility. Lusinchi was jailed for two months and was beaten with a sword.\nA month later he was transferred to the \"C\u00e1rcel Modelo\" (Model Prison) in Caracas, and was released shortly after that, beginning an exile of five years in Argentina, Chile and the United States. During his stay in Buenos Aires and Santiago de Chile, he undertook postgraduate study in Pediatrics. He resided in Santiago from 1953 and worked at Roberto del R\u00edo Hospital. In addition, he struck up friendships with prominent figures in local politics, such as the Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei Montalva and the democratic-socialist leader Salvador Allende.\nIn 1956 he moved to New York City, which was the focal point of Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica's leadership in exile, with Betancourt as the principal leader. In the aforementioned metropolis Lusinchi obtained a master's degree in pediatrics, at Lincoln Hospital and the Bellevue Hospital Center, joining the American Academy of Pediatrics. On 23 January 1958, democracy was restored in Venezuela. Therein after the fall of the P\u00e9rez Jim\u00e9nez Government, Lusinchi returned from exile, and joined the National Executive Committee of Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica as secretary for International Affairs. In the 1959 General Elections he was elected deputy for Anzo\u00e1tegui for the National Congress, being re-elected in 1963, 1968 and 1973.\nIn 1977, Lusinchi unsuccessfully ran for the presidency of Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica and in the 1978 elections was defeated by Luis Pi\u00f1er\u00faa Ordaz (who in turn lost against the candidate of COPEI, Luis Herrera Campins). After this, Lusinchi was elected senator for the 1979-1984 period. In March 1981 he was elected General Secretary of Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica, and on 29 June 1982, he was nominated as a candidate for the 1983 elections.\nOn 4 December 1983, Lusinchi with 56% of the votes, won the presidency, and Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica obtained an absolute majority n the Congress. On 2 February 1984, he was sworn in as President of Venezuela for a five-year term.\nPresidency.\nLusinchi started his presidency at the age of 59, promising to govern with fairness, transparency, social sensitivity and austerity in the use of public funds, while presenting himself as a moderate president.\nThe first three years of his presidency were characterized by efforts to achieve economy stability, the paying off of the foreign debts, the reduction of public spending, the implementation of social programs benefiting the people and the promotion of industrial growth. These goals were not accomplished. However, agriculture and the iron mining industry were developed during his administration, the country achieved positive growth rates at the end of 1984, with a growth rate of 6% in GDP, but the official rate of unemployment inherited from the previous government of Luis Herrera Campins was 20%.\nDuring this period, the government started negotiations to restructure interest payments and amortizations of the foreign debt, which in 1985 was 36 billion dollars (of which 28 billion was from the public sector), contracted with the international private banking and multilateral agencies. The first positive result of this effort was that Venezuela regained a credit-eligibility rating. In addition, Lusinchi took initiatives to increase oil prices via OPEC.\nHowever, Lusinchi was not successful at crucial goals for the development of the country. The oil market was too unstable due to price fluctuations and thus unpredictable, the oil prices were low, and the Venezuelan economy was too oil-dependent. This led to a dismal situation due to an excessively high government fiscal budget, depleting financial reserves for the payment of debt, an important pledge made during Lusinchi's presidential campaign.\n1985 was characterized by a relative social peace and the absence of labor disputes and strikes, in part due to the support of the government by the largest trade union of the country, the Confederation of Workers of Venezuela, which had traditionally been closely linked to Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica. During this year, Lusinchi welcomed John Paul II, the first Pope ever to visit Venezuela. But in the second half of his presidency, the social malaise grew, and the government was pressed to change the direction of its policies. In December 1986, the government decided to devalue the official exchange of the national currency bolivar by 93%, culminating with three years of depreciation of the national currency. In 1987, Lusinchi finally stopped the economic program carried out from the beginning of his term in office, and gave up his attempts to pay off the external debt, control the fiscal deficit and restrain public spending.\nAfter that, Lusinchi decreed salary increases, price controls, emission of currency and compensatory bonds for subsidies. These measures tried to appease social tensions, that from 1987 on had appeared with more intensity. Among the consequences of this economic program were, more inflation and budget deficits.\nThe return to economic populism as in previous administrations safeguarded Lusinchi's popularity. However, there occurred currency devaluation, corruption, media criticism and unsatisfactory results from the Presidential Commission for State Reform (COPRE), which was established on 17 December 1984 and whose work encountered the same bureaucratic problems and administrative inefficiency, which it attempted to solve.\nDuring Lusinchi's presidency some massacres also occurred, such as the Yumare massacre in Yaracuy on 8 May 1986 that was carried out by the DISIP, Venezuela's scientific police, killing nine members of the subversive group \"Punto Cero\"; and the massacre of El Amparo, in Apure State on 29 October 1988, in which 14 fishermen were mistakenly assumed to be guerrillas and killed by the army.\nLusinchi supported the former minister and political leader Octavio Lepage in his bid to be AD's candidate for the 1988 elections, but Lepage was defeated in the internal elections of the party in October 1987 by the former president Carlos Andr\u00e9s P\u00e9rez. P\u00e9rez was elected for a new term after a gap as president in 1988. Lusinchi finished his term in office on 2 February 1989.\nJohn Paul II visits Venezuela.\nIn January 1986, Pope John Paul II visited Venezuela. This was to be the first time ever that a Roman pontiff had visited that country specifically. As part of that very special event, thousands of people were mobilized to conduct many cultural and religious programs in several different cities, notably Puerto Ordaz, Maracaibo, M\u00e9rida and Caracas. To commemorate the place where the Pope conducted Mass while in Caracas, a housing complex was created years later that used the Pope's official title, John Paul II, as its own. Unfortunately that effort became tarnished by corruption and scandal.\nCaldas incident.\nOn 13 August 1987, the Colombian navy corvette \"Caldas\" sailed into the Gulf of Venezuela, causing a crisis in Colombian-Venezuelan relations that almost led to armed conflict. The crisis was eventually resolved by dialogue between Lusinchi and Colombian President Virgilio Barco.\nPost-presidency (1989-2014).\nAfter his presidency had ended, Lusinchi was appointed Senator for Life, as was permitted by the Venezuelan constitution of 1961. But From 27 March 1990, Lusinchi became the subject of a parliamentary inquiry looking at what was believed to be a corruption scandal of huge proportions that took place during his term in government. Accused of illegally influencing decisions at the currency exchange through the financial Regime of Preferential Currency Change (RECADI) and management of funds at the Foreign Affairs Ministry, as well as the purchase of 65 off-road vehicles that were to be used in the 1988 electoral campaign of Acci\u00f3n Democr\u00e1tica; the diversion of other funds from the National Institute for Racetracks (INH). He was also declared a suspect in the August 1993 sending of mail bombs meant to intimidate members of the Supreme Court.\nIn November 1991, the Venezuelan Congress issued a \"political and moral condemnation\" to be lodged against the former president for his part in economic mismanagement and administrative irregularities that took place during his term. Then, on 10 August 1993, the Supreme Court decided it had found evidence of actual criminality during its review of charges filed against Lusinchi by the Attorney General's Office, and started proceedings against him.\nOn 13 August Lusinchi was stripped of senatorial immunity, and prohibited from leaving of country. Lusinchi responded by flying to Miami. Next he left for Costa Rica where he met Blanca Ib\u00e1\u00f1ez, his future wife. In July 1994, and again in February 1997, charges were filed against him by the courts. A trial was opened against the former president, ostensibly for his illegal use of funds belonging to the Department of Foreign Affairs and the National Institute for Racetracks (INH). But in October 1999, the Supreme Court reversed both decisions.\nAlthough an inquiry into the process of how that happened was later opened, by then the corruption charges against him had expired their legal term of placement. Again in June 2006 however, himself and seven former officials of his government, along with 38 other retired members of the Venezuelan security services DISIP were accused of in some way being guilty of events now known as the Yumare Massacre.\nLusinchi left Venezuela via Miami and lived in the city of San Jos\u00e9, Costa Rica till 2009, when returned to Caracas.\nLusinchi died on 21 May 2014 at the age of 89 after having been hospitalized for lung problems. He died about 5 weeks before ex-President Ram\u00f3n Jos\u00e9 Vel\u00e1squez died on 24 June 2014 of natural causes.\nPersonal life.\nLusinchi was married to Gladys Castillo in 1941\u20131988 (they had 2 sons and 3 daughters) who served as First Lady of Venezuela from 1984. He then married his private secretary and long-term girlfriend, Blanca Ib\u00e1\u00f1ez, in 1991 and remained married to her until his death in 2014.\nDivorce from Gladys Castillo (1988).\nIn 1988, President Lusinchi filed for divorce from his wife of 44 years, First Lady Gladys Castillo de Lusinchi, in favor of his longtime mistress and \"private secretary\", Blanca Ib\u00e1\u00f1ez. Lusinchi cited \"voluntary abandonment of the home\" by Castillo. Gladys Castillo rebuked Lusinchi, noting her husband's affair and infidelity, saying, \"If anyone has committed abandonment and serious insults, it has not been me.\" Castillo also refused to move out of the presidential palace. The divorce was granted by a Caracas civil court in April 1988 with unusual speed. Public opinion swiftly turned against the president. The Catholic Church, led by M\u00e9rida Archbishop Miguel Antonio Salas, harshly criticized Lusinchi and his decision to initiate divorce proceedings, writing, \"\"With consternation and astonishment, we have learned from the press of the divorce decree of the presidential couple\" and called it \"...a bad example by the national magistrate which has dealt a severe blow to the family institution in Venezuela.\" The bishops condemned the end of the marriage, which was the first presidential divorce in Venezuelan history, and called the divorce \"a mockery of the good faith of Venezuelans\"."}
{"id": "756400", "revid": "13160362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756400", "title": "John Heitinga", "text": "John Gijsbert Alan Heitinga (born 15 November 1983) is a Dutch football coach and former player currently assistant coach at Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur.\nA centre-back and product of the Ajax Academy, he played for their first squad from 2001 to 2008, winning two Eredivisie and three KNVB Cup titles. After a one-year spell at Atl\u00e9tico Madrid in Spain, he signed for Everton in 2009. He joined Fulham at the start of 2014 then signed with German side Hertha BSC later that year. In June 2015, he returned to his Ajax for a single season before retiring in 2016.\nAfter making his debut for the Netherlands national team in February 2004, Heitinga earned 87 caps and represented his country at two World Cups (2006 and 2010) and three European Championships (2004, 2008, and 2012). He helped the Dutch to the World Cup final in 2010, in which he was sent off in a loss to Spain. In 2008, he was named Dutch Footballer of the Year.\nEarly life.\nHeitinga was born in Alphen aan den Rijn, South Holland, and raised in Amsterdam. He is of Indonesian descent through his paternal grandfather.\nClub career.\nAjax.\nHeitinga was part of the Ajax youth team, before making his debut for the first team on 26 August 2001 against Feyenoord. He was part a new wave of talent that fielded the likes of homegrown stars Rafael van der Vaart and Wesley Sneijder, as well as Zlatan Ibrahimovi\u0107 and Cristian Chivu. He was featured in a documentary entitled \"\" alongside Ajax academy pupils Gregory van der Wiel, Mitchell Donald, Jeffrey Sarpong, Donovan Slijngard, Nordin Amrabat, Evander Sno and Jeremain Lens.\nHeitinga quickly established himself as a strong addition to the team and became first-choice player under coach Co Adriaanse and later Ronald Koeman until he suffered a serious knee injury which kept him on the sidelines for over six months. His comeback was short-lived, as he played only one game before suffering yet another injury which again sentenced him to a long period of recovery.\nHe made his second comeback at the start of the 2003\u201304 season and impressed in his first game since injury against Volendam, from where he went on to become a first choice central defender for the remainder of the season as well as a popular figure amongst the fans. When it was announced that he would be leaving Ajax at the end of the 2007\u201308 season, the fans gave him a fitting send-off by displaying a mosaic of him on the stands.\nAtl\u00e9tico Madrid.\nHeitinga moved to Atl\u00e9tico Madrid at the end of the 2007\u201308 season for a fee of \u00a38.8 million. His first season in Spain ended with Heitinga making 32 appearances \u2013 27 in La Liga \u2013 and scoring three goals for Atl\u00e9tico.\nEverton.\nIn September 2009, aged 25, Heitinga joined English Premier League club Everton on a five-year contract for a fee of around \u20ac7.04 million (\u00a36.2 million). He was given squad number 5, though he was not eligible to represent Everton in the UEFA Europa League, having already played for Atl\u00e9tico Madrid in the qualifying stage of the Champions League. Heitinga made his debut for Everton on 13 September against Fulham after coming on for the injured Phil Neville. In his first season for the club, Heitinga made 35 appearances in all competitions.\nIn the 2010\u201311 FA Cup, Everton held holders Chelsea 1\u20131 in a replay at Stamford Bridge, sending the tie to penalties. Heitinga took Everton's fourth and scored. Phil Neville went on to score the winning penalty for Everton. Later that season, Heitinga scored his first goal for the club in a 1\u20131 draw at home to Birmingham City. Heitinga was voted Everton's Player of the Season for 2011\u201312 by the club's supporters. He then scored against Newcastle on the final day of the season with an unmarked header which put Everton 3\u20130, his second Premier League goal and his first in over 14 months.\nIn 2012\u201313 season, manager David Moyes opted to play Phil Jagielka and Sylvain Distin in central defence for much of Everton's season. Heitinga had to wait until an injury to Jagielka gave him a sustained run in the team but poor performances which included him being culpable for all three goals in a 3\u20133 draw with Aston Villa led to him being criticised by fans. However, in April Moyes praised Heitinga's mental strength for battling back after his earlier form in the season would have \"broken\" most players. Despite this, Heitinga revealed that he had rejected Everton's offer of a new contract at the end of the year. In January 2014, Everton and West Ham United agreed terms for the transfer of Heitinga. He turned down the move however saying: \"You have to be convinced that you are taking the right step and I was not\". He scored his last goal for the team in his last outing, Everton's 4\u20130 FA Cup win against Stevenage.\nLater career.\nOn 31 January 2014, Heitinga signed for Fulham for a six-month deal on a free transfer. In a 3\u20131 loss against Chelsea on 1 March, Heitinga scored the only goal for Fulham. On 23 May 2014, he was released from the club at the end of his contract.\nHeitinga signed a two-year contract with German club Hertha BSC in June 2014.\nOn 25 June 2015, Ajax announced that Heitinga would return to the club on a free transfer. He signed a one-year contract with the option of a second year. However, after playing only two Eredivisie matches in the first half of the season, Heitinga decided to retire from professional football on 1 February 2016.\nInternational career.\nEuro 2004.\nHaving been part of Dutch international youth teams, Heitinga made his senior debut for the Netherlands on 18 February 2004 in a friendly game against the United States. Several months later, he scored his first goal from a Rafael van der Vaart free kick in a friendly against Greece.\nAlthough he did not take part in qualifying, Heitinga was later included in the squad for the Euro 2004 in Portugal since the Dutch under-21 team had failed to qualify for the European Championships. He started as first choice right back in the first two group stage matches but was suspended for the last match when he was sent-off for two bookable offences. After serving his suspension, he returned in the quarter-final against Sweden as a second-half substitute for Edgar Davids and converted his penalty as the Dutch won 5\u20134 on penalties. The Dutch, however, were eliminated by the hosts Portugal in the semi-finals.\n2006 World Cup and Euro 2008.\nHeitinga was selected by Marco van Basten for the Dutch national team of 23 players to compete in the 2006 FIFA World Cup, hosted by Germany. The Dutch reached the second round before again being knocked out by Portugal.\nHeitinga was also called up to the Dutch squad for Euro 2008 in Austria and Switzerland. Since Euro 2008, he has been a regular in the right back position and has occasionally deputised in other defensive positions during an injury crisis. He made his 50th appearance for the Netherlands in a friendly against Paraguay on 18 November 2009.\n2010 World Cup.\nHeitinga was included in the squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa, and was in the starting line-up for the Netherlands' first match in the competition, a 2\u20130 victory over Denmark. Heitinga played in every game as the Netherlands reached the final for the third time, where they faced Spain. He started the match but was sent off in the 109th minute after being given his second yellow card for a foul on Andr\u00e9s Iniesta.\nHe became the fifth player to be sent off in a World Cup final. The Netherlands went on to lose the final 1\u20130 after Iniesta scored the winning goal for Spain in the 116th minute.\nCoaching career.\nIn June 2021, Heitinga was appointed manager of Jong Ajax, the reserve team of Ajax competing in the Eerste Divisie. He signed a contract for two seasons running until June 2023. In 2022, he extended his contract until 2025. On 27 January 2023, Heitinga was appointed interim manager of Ajax's first team for the remainder of the season, following the dismissal of Alfred Schreuder. His first match in charge was a 4\u20131 away win against Excelsior on 29 January. Under Heitinga's guidance, Ajax finished in third place in the Eredivisie, securing a place in the UEFA Europa League play-off round. They also reached the final of the KNVB Cup, losing to PSV on penalties after a 1\u20131 draw. On 1 June 2023, it was announced that Heitinga would not continue as manager of Ajax beyond his interim spell, with the club deciding to appoint Maurice Steijn instead.\nIn September 2023, Heitinga was appointed first-team coach at West Ham United as assistant to David Moyes, his former manager at Everton. Upon the departure of Moyes in May 2024, Heitinga left the club, along with other coaches and back-room staff. On 17 July 2024, Heitinga was appointed as the new assistant coach at Liverpool. He took charge of Liverpool for the first time in a 2\u20130 win over Newcastle United on 26 February 2025, whilst manager Arne Slot and assistant manager Sipke Hulshoff were suspended. That season, Liverpool, under Slot\u2019s leadership, won the Premier League title.\nOn 31 May 2025, Heitinga agreed to return to his former club Ajax as head coach, signing a two-year contract set to begin with the 2025\u201326 season.\nOn 6 November 2025, just five months after being announced as head coach of Ajax, Heitinga was dismissed following the club's 3\u20130 home defeat to Turkish side Galatasaray in the Champions League, which saw them sit bottom of the league phase table, failing to secure a point in their four matches.\nOn 15 January 2026, Heitinga was appointed as first team assistant coach at Tottenham Hotspur as part of Thomas Frank\u2019s coaching staff.\nHonours.\nAjax\nNetherlands\nIndividual"}
{"id": "756402", "revid": "4145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756402", "title": "Screen writer", "text": ""}
{"id": "756403", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756403", "title": "Jean Marie Lustiger", "text": ""}
{"id": "756405", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756405", "title": "Hugues-Bernard Maret, duc de Bassano", "text": "Hugues-Bernard Maret (; 1 May 1763 \u2013 13 May 1839), 1st Duke of Bassano (\"Duc de Bassano\"), was a French statesman, diplomat and journalist.\nBiography.\nEarly career.\nMaret was born in Dijon, in the province of Burgundy, as the second son of a physician and scholar at the Academy of Dijon. Destined for a medical career by his father, he instead decided to study law, and after receiving a solid education Maret entered the legal profession, becoming a lawyer at the King's Council in Paris. The ideas of the French Revolution profoundly influenced him, wholly altering his career.\nThe interest aroused by the debates of the first National Assembly suggested to him the idea of publishing them in the \"Bulletin de l'Assembl\u00e9e\". The journalist Charles-Joseph Panckoucke (1736\u20131798), owner of the \"Mercure de France\" and publisher of the famous \"Encyclop\u00e9die\" (1785), persuaded him to merge this in a larger paper, \"Le Moniteur Universel\", which gained a wide repute for correctness and impartiality.\nHe was a member of the moderate club, the Feuillants, but, with the overthrow of the monarchy and the insurrection of 10 August 1792 he accepted a post in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where he sometimes exercised a steadying influence. On the withdrawal of the British legation, Citizen Maret (as he was then known) went on a mission to London, where he had a favourable interview with William Pitt the Younger on 22 December 1792 \u2013 all hope of an accommodation was, however, in vain. After the execution of Bourbon King Louis XVI (21 January 1793), the chief French diplomatic agent, Bernard-Fran\u00e7ois de Chauvelin, was ordered to leave Britain, while the National Convention declared war (1 February 1793 \u2013 \"see Campaigns of 1793 in the French Revolutionary Wars\"). These events limited the impact of Maret's second mission to London in January 1794.\nEnvoy of the Republic.\nAfter a space in which he held no diplomatic post, he became Ambassador of the French Republic to the Kingdom of Naples; but, while negotiating with Charles de S\u00e9monville he was captured by the Austrian Empire and was kept for some thirty months, until, at the close of 1795, the two were set free in return for the liberation of Princess Marie-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se-Charlotte, the daughter of ex-King Louis XVI.\nFor a time Maret returned to journalism, but he played a useful part in the negotiations for a peace with Britain which went on at Lille during the summer of 1797, until the victory of the Jacobin Club in Paris in the \"coup d'\u00e9tat\" of 18 Fructidor (September 1797) frustrated the hopes of Pitt for peace and inflicted on Maret another reverse of fortune.\nOn Napoleon's return from Egypt in 1799, Maret joined the general's party which came to power with the 18 Brumaire coup (9 November\u201310).\nConsulate and Empire.\nMaret now became one of Napoleon's secretaries and shortly afterwards Secretary of State. An experienced politician, he rendered services of major value to the French Consulate and First French Empire.\nThe \"Moniteur\", which became the official State Journal in 1800, was placed under his control. He sometimes succeeded in toning down the hard, abrupt language of Napoleon's communications, and in every way proved a useful intermediary. It is known that he had a share in the drawing up of the new constitutions for the Batavian and Italian Republics.\nIn 1804, he became Minister; in 1807, he was created Count; and in 1809, he was granted the title of \"Duc de Bassano\", one of the titles with the status of \"duch\u00e9 grand-fief\" in Napoleon's Kingdom of Italy. This was a rare hereditary honor (extinct in 1906), which gives an insight into how well respected his work was by the Emperor.\nHe was extremely devoted to Napoleon, as shown by his work to pass into law the artifices adopted by the latter in April\u2013May 1808 in order to make himself master of the destinies of Spain (\"see Peninsular War\"). Maret also assisted in drawing up the Spanish Constitution of 1808, which was rejected by almost all Spanish subjects. He accompanied Napoleon through most of his campaigns, including that of 1809 against the Fifth Coalition, and he expressed himself in favour of the marriage alliance with the Archduchess Marie-Louise of Austria, which took place in 1810.\nIn the spring of 1811, the Duc de Bassano replaced Jean-Baptiste de Champagny, as Minister of Foreign Affairs. In this capacity he showed his usual ability and devotion, concluding the treaties between France and Austria and between France and Prussia, which preceded the French invasion of Russia in 1812. \nHe was with Napoleon through the greater part of that campaign, and after the major defeat, helped to prepare the new forces with which Napoleon waged the equally unsuccessful campaign of 1813 against the Sixth Coalition.\nEnd of the Empire, exile, and return.\nIn November 1813 Napoleon replaced Maret with Armand, Marquis of Caulaincourt, who was known to be devoted to the cause of peace and had a personal connection to Tsar Alexander I of Russia. Maret, however, as private secretary of Napoleon, remained with him through the campaign of 1814, as well as during that of 1815 and the Hundred Days.\nAfter the restoration of the Bourbons, Maret was exiled. He retired to Graz, where he occupied himself with literary work. In 1820 he was allowed to return to France. After the July Revolution of 1830, the new king Louis Philippe elevated him as a Peer of France. In November 1834 Maret served a short time as Prime Minister of France.\nThe Duc de Bassano died at Paris in 1839.\nReferences.\nAttribution"}
{"id": "756409", "revid": "531961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756409", "title": "Hugues Maret, Duc de Bassano", "text": ""}
{"id": "756410", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756410", "title": "Albert J. Luthuli", "text": ""}
{"id": "756411", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756411", "title": "Albert John Luthuli", "text": ""}
{"id": "756413", "revid": "10068830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756413", "title": "Robert Anthony Lutz", "text": ""}
{"id": "756414", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756414", "title": "Counter revolutionary", "text": ""}
{"id": "756415", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756415", "title": "Michael Reiziger", "text": "Michael John Reiziger (; born 3 May 1973) is a Dutch former professional footballer who played mainly as a right back. Reiziger currently manages the Netherlands U21 team.\nAfter making a name for himself at Ajax, with whom he won one Champions League, he went on to represent four teams in as many countries, notably Barcelona, for which he played 249 official games in seven years, as well as spells at A.C. Milan, Middlesbrough and PSV Eindhoven.\nReiziger represented the Netherlands national team for a full decade, competing at three European Championships and the 1998 World Cup and finishing fourth in the latter tournament.\nPlaying career.\nClub.\nBorn in Amstelveen, North Holland, to Surinamese parents, Reiziger started his career with hometown club Ajax, making his first-team debut at the age of 17 then serving two consecutive loan spells, with Volendam and Groningen; with the latter, in the 1993\u201394 season, he scored a career-best six goals while operating also as a midfielder.\nUpon his return to Ajax, Reiziger established himself as a renowned defensive element, helping the side to, among other conquests, the 1994\u201395 edition of the UEFA Champions League. In 1996, he signed for A.C. Milan, but after a season marred by injury, he departed for Barcelona where he spent the following seven years, arriving at the same time as compatriot and former Ajax boss Louis van Gaal; though not an undisputed starter, he nonetheless featured heavily for the Catalans, making more than 200 overall appearances and helping to back-to-back La Liga titles.\nIn 2004, Reiziger moved to Middlesbrough on a Bosman transfer. He scored once in the league for Boro, against Aston Villa in December 2004. After another campaign plagued by physical problems, he left and returned to the Netherlands to see out his career at PSV Eindhoven (in his second year he won the Eredivisie, and was also reunited with Ajax, Bar\u00e7a and national teammate Patrick Kluivert, although the two rarely ever played).\nInternational.\nReiziger made his debut for the Netherlands national team on 12 October 1994, against Norway. He played for his country at the UEFA Euro 1996, 1998 FIFA World Cup, Euro 2000 and Euro 2004, retiring from international play after the latter.\nShortly after signing for PSV, Reiziger said he would consider playing for the Netherlands again if the opportunity arose, but he was never recalled again, totalling 72 appearances in ten years.\nCoaching career.\nAfter retiring, Reiziger settled in Barcelona. He later went on to coach Sparta Rotterdam at youth level and, subsequently and successively, acted as assistant to Gert Kruys and Alex Pastoor.\nOn 20 June 2017, Reiziger returned to Ajax as manager of the reserves who competed in the Eerste Divisie, replacing Marcel Keizer. In his first season in charge he led the squad to the league title, but they were ineligible for promotion. He also acted as interim for the first team during one match after the dismissal of Keizer, defeating Willem II 3\u20131 at home.\nHe was the assistant coach of Ajax\u2019 first team, from 2019 until 2023.Since 2023 he is the manager of Netherlands under 21 team.\nPersonal life.\nReiziger's son, Gabri\u00ebl (born 2005), also came through the Ajax youth system. He plays in 2025 for PEC Zwolle.\nHonours.\nPlayer.\nAjax\nBarcelona\nPSV\nManager.\nJong Ajax"}
{"id": "756418", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756418", "title": "Yury Luzhkov", "text": "Yury Mikhailovich Luzhkov (; 1936 \u2013 10 December 2019) was a Russian politician who served as mayor of Moscow from 1992 to 2010. Before the election of Gavriil Popov as the first mayor of Moscow, he also headed the capital in 1990-1991 as chairman of the Mosgorispolkom. He was the vice-chairman and one of the founders of the ruling United Russia party. During Luzhkov's time, Moscow's economy expanded and he presided over large construction projects in the city, including the building of a new financial district. At the same time, he was accused of corruption, bulldozing historic buildings, and poor handling of traffic, as well as the city's smog crisis during the 2010 Russian wildfires. On 28 September 2010, Luzhkov was fired from his post by a decree issued by then-President Dmitry Medvedev.\nEarly life.\nYury Mikhailovich Luzhkov was born on 21 September 1936 in Moscow. His father, Mikhail Andreyevich Luzhkov, moved to Moscow from a small village in Tver Oblast in the 1930s.\nMayoral career.\nIn April 1990, the new chairman of the Moscow City Council, Gavriil Popov, on the recommendation of Boris Yeltsin, nominated Luzhkov for the post of chairman of the Mosgorispolkom.\nFollowing the August coup Luzhkov was appointed on 24 August 1991, without leaving the post of vice-mayor of Moscow, one of three deputy heads of the Committee on the Operational Management of the Soviet economy, which was created to replace the Cabinet of Ministers, which had supported the coup, and became the last government of the Soviet Union. He was responsible for questions related to the agro-industrial complex, trade, foreign economic relations and the social sphere. Two months later it became known that Luzhkov left the committee due to employment as vice mayor.\nArchitecture.\nMany old Soviet landmarks, such as Rossiya Hotel or Voentorg, were reconstructed or demolished, as well as several old buildings around the Kadashi Church in the proximity of the Moscow Kremlin. Many neighbourhoods, like Zamoskvorechye, were dramatically changed. Sculptor Zurab Tsereteli enjoyed Luzhkov's personal support in setting many of his works over the city.\nIn 1999, in order to improve the housing conditions of Moscovites, Yury Luzhkov initiated a major demolition programme to replace Moscow\u2019s old five-story apartment blocks that were unsuitable for\u00a0renovation because of the outdated technology used during their construction. 1,722 of\u00a0them were to\u00a0be razed by\u00a02010. The\u00a0authorities stipulated that the\u00a0apartment blocks could only be torn down and\u00a0replaced after its residents had been moved into\u00a0new housing.\nRegistration.\nLuzhkov's rationale for permanent living place (propiska) registration was that Moscow's city infrastructure could not handle a rapidly growing population. Some of the most blatant limitations were removed by the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court after a long fight with Luzhkov's lawyers, making the registration process somewhat simpler. In 2003 Privacy International awarded Luzhkov the runner-up position in its Most Egregiously Stupid Award for the propiska rules.\nPopularity.\nIn April 2001, 63% of Moscow residents had a good or very good view of Mayor Luzhkov. However, Luzhkov's ratings steadily declined, and according to the latest poll from October 2009, only 36% of Muscovites viewed him positively.\nAllegations of corruption.\nAllegations of wrongdoing by Luzhkov had been made before, but he had been notable for never having lost a libel suit in his career, including against Boris Nemtsov, the newspaper Kommersant, and The New York Times.\nDespite the lawsuit history between the two, after Luzhkov\u2019s dismissal Boris Nemtsov said: \u2018I can\u2019t help feeling that the current investigation is more of a revenge against Luzhkov and Baturina, and not an attempt to restore a lawful situation. I am absolutely convinced that the main task here is raiding with the help of the State. The goal is to take Baturina's business from her for a pittance. And criminal cases are just the way to do it. It's disgusting to take part in marauding, and I will never do it. Thus, the story of my conflict with Baturina is from now on completely over.\"\nDismissal.\nLuzhkov was dismissed by President Medvedev on 28 September 2010, after returning from a holiday in Austria, citing \"loss of trust\". Pundits had been predicting Luzhkov's imminent ousting for years. The September 2010 dismissal followed weeks of speculation regarding Luzhkov's position, caused by his questioning of Medvedev's leadership. Government-controlled television channels had run programs criticizing Luzhkov's handling of the 2010 summer peat fires and accused him and his wife of corruption. Some observers have seen this as being part of a struggle between Medvedev and then-Prime Minister Putin. Luzhkov officially declared that he had left the United Russia party. Luzhkov had sent a letter to the President on 27 September criticizing Medvedev's policy and his administration's actions. According to the President's press-secretary Medvedev read the letter after the decision had been made but it would not have affected that decision in any case.\nPost-mayoral activities.\nOn 1 October 2010 Luzhkov was appointed Dean of the Faculty of Management of major cities of the International University in Moscow. The order for appointment was signed by the president of the university, former mayor (and Luzhkov's predecessor as mayor) of Moscow Gavriil Popov. The faculty of management of large cities was established in 2002 on the initiative of Luzhkov, in the same year Luzhkov became the scientific leader of this faculty and an honorary professor at the university. On the same day, ex-mayor Luzhkov left his former workplace.\nOn 21 September 2016, Luzhkov's 80th birthday, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed a decree awarding him the Order of Merit of the Fatherland, 4th degree \"for active public work\".\nIn 2010, Luzhkov became head of Veedern, the agricultural enterprise with the territory of 5,500 hectare in the North-West of Russia. He established and managed a large farmstead that was active in horse and sheep breeding, grain growing and cereal production, cheese making, etc. In 2017, the farm produced a total of 10,000 tons of grain (barley, wheat, buckwheat), and its buckwheat harvest covered 2/3 of the regional need.\nThe farm employed more than 100 locals, offered highly competitive wages and social support. Luzhkov claimed that his main goal as a farmer was the creation of a self-sustainable and business efficient enterprise, developing and promoting to the regional and federal authorities a system of support for private agricultural enterprises. After his death, the farm was inherited by Luzhkov\u2019s younger son Alexander.\nIn Russia's politics.\nIn 1998, as Boris Yeltsin's political troubles grew partly because of the August economic crisis, Luzhkov formed his own national political faction, Otechestvo (Fatherland), to serve as his base for the upcoming presidential election. Otechestvo had the support of many powerful regional politicians, and it gained further support when it merged with another party, Vsya Rossiya (All Russia) to form Otechestvo-Vsya Rossiya. Many observers of Russian politics believed that Luzhkov and his new ally, former prime minister Yevgeniy Primakov, would be likely to displace both Yeltsin and his inner circle in the parliamentary and presidential elections due to be held in late 1999 and mid-2000, respectively.\nHowever, Yeltsin appointed Vladimir Putin as Prime Minister in August 1999. While virtually unknown when first appointed, Putin rapidly gained popular support due to a hard-line law and order image and the backing of powerful state-owned and state-allied media and economic interests. Supporters of the prime minister, Luzhkov and his party integrated with the pro-Putin Unity party into the single United Russia following the autumn 1999 Duma campaign, and endorsed Putin in the 2000 presidential elections, which he won easily. Luzhkov remained a co-chairman of United Russia.\nCriticism.\nLuzhkov was accused of brutal suppression of opposition protests, and he was widely condemned for leaving Moscow during the smog crisis resulting from the 2010 Russian wildfires. He is also blamed for traffic congestion in the city.\nControversy.\nIn 2002, Luzhkov proposed returning to Lubyanka Square the fifteen-ton iron statue of Felix Dzerzhinsky, founder of the Soviet Cheka. The statue was removed after the failure of the attempted coup against the Soviet government of Mikhail Gorbachev in 1991. Opponents of the proposal collected the signatures of 114,000 Moscow residents against the statue's return.\nStance on Sevastopol.\nIn 1996 Luzhkov, hoping to advance his political stature on a national level, became the main advocate for a claim to the city of Sevastopol in Ukraine. In December, the Russian Federation Council passed a resolution officially claiming the city, affecting negotiations between President Boris Yeltsin and Ukraine's President Leonid Kuchma over possession of the Black Sea Fleet (housed at Sevastopol) and helping spur Ukraine to seek a relationship with NATO.\nOn 12 May 2008 Luzhkov was banned from entering Ukraine by the Security Service (SBU) after his statement concerning the legal status of Sevastopol:\nDestruction of the Rechnik neighbourhood.\nIt was Luzhkov who controversially ordered the destruction of houses built in the Rechnik neighbourhood of Moscow. According to an interview published in the \"Moskovsky Komsomolets\", Luzkhov said that the residents were squatting on land in a \"protected environmental zone.\" Residents claimed that Soviet-era permits to the land, which was set aside as a gardening collective in the 1950s, gave them de facto title over the land the houses were built on and many of these titles were bought or inherited from the original owners; Luzhkov was accused of lobbying the interests of building companies. However, the City Hall claimed that no permissions for private house building on that land were given since the 1950s and that the residents could never claim amnesty because of that. Nevertheless, Luzhkov stated that the city was ready to provide full compensation by offering other land plots in the vicinity of Moscow for veterans of World War II who lived in Rechnik since Soviet times.\nHonouring Stalin.\nIn 2010, Luzhkov made public his plans to honour Soviet leader Joseph Stalin with ten posters of him in the city of Moscow, for the first time in around fifty years after Nikita Khrushchev's criticism of Stalin-period policies. Liberal critics expressed concern that Stalin was being rehabilitated as memories of his \"reign of terror\" faded.\nPersonal life.\nLuzhkov married his first wife, Marina Bashilova, in 1958, and had two sons with her, Mikhail and Alexander. Bashilova died from liver cancer in 1989. He met his second wife, businesswoman Yelena Baturina, 27 years his junior, in 1987. They married in 1991 and had two daughters, Elena (born 1992) and Olga (born 1994), and owned a home in the affluent Kensington area of London, purchased in 2013 through an offshore company domiciled in Gibraltar.\nLuzhkov frequently appeared in public at different festivals and celebrations, and was an enthusiastic promoter of Moscow. His hobbies included tennis and beekeeping. His support for physical fitness was well known, and a statue of the mayor in tennis garb was created by Zurab Tsereteli.\nPersonal views.\nLuzhkov was allegedly a devoted Orthodox Christian believer, often appearing at Christmas and Easter liturgies. A BBC documentary made during the late 1990s questioned this, asserting he was not an Orthodox Christian. When asked why he supported the Church, he replied that he supported its moral teachings. He was friendly with Patriarch Alexy II. In 2005 he was given an award from the International Fund of Unity of Orthodox Christians.\nLuzhkov was critical of homosexuality and issued several bans on the Moscow Pride parade, organised by Nikolay Alexeyev. Gay activists accused him of homophobia, and sent their appeals to the European Court of Human Rights complaining the breach of Freedom of Assembly, which is granted in the European Convention on Human Rights.\nLuzhkov was known as an enthusiastic advocate of the Northern river reversal project, which he believed would solve the water problem of Central Asia and earn money for Russia.\nDeath.\nLuzhkov died on 10 December 2019 in Munich, Germany at the Klinikum der Universit\u00e4t M\u00fcnchen where he underwent invasive heart surgery. Luzhkov was administered anesthesia and died from subsequent anaphylactic shock.\nHonours and awards.\nAs part of the celebrations marking the 25th anniversary of the great consecration of the main Orthodox church \u2013 the Cathedral of Christ the Savior \u2013 an exhibition dedicated to Yuri Luzhkov and his significant contribution to the revival of both the Cathedral of Christ the Savior and other temples Moscow, as well as to the general development of the city in the 1990s\u20132010s, opened in the cathedral museum hall.\nYury Luzhkov Foundation.\nThe Yury Luzhkov Foundation was established in September 2020 with the purpose of preserving his memory, work and accomplishments, as well as popularizing his socio-political, literary and scientific heritage. The memorial work of the Foundation was endorsed by a special order of President Vladimir Putin. The Foundation strives to support and develop the socio-cultural and philanthropic initiatives that continue the line of Yury Luzhkov\u2019s work to benefit the citizens of Moscow and Russia, with a particular focus on involvement of younger people into developing solutions for contemporary urbanistic problems.\nProjects and programs.\nAn award for prominent theatre management was established in the name of Yuri Luzhkov by the National Theatre Award \u201cCrystal Turandot\u201d and first awarded in June 2021. At the festival the Foundation has established a special prize to the \u201cYoung Innovator\u201d and awarded it annually.\nLong-term cooperation has been established with the International Festival of Scientific and Technological Development for Children and Youth. At the Festival, the Yuri Luzhkov Prize to \"Young Innovators\" is annually granted to the youngest and most talented inventor among those who bring their projects to the festival.\nAnnual scholarship and grant programmes have been established with Moscow universities to honour Luzhkov\u2019s contribution to industry, science and education, including his alma mater Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas.\nThe foundation is an ongoing supporter of the educational campaign \u201cAll-Russian Economic Dictation\u201d developed by the Free Economic Society of Russia and pays special attention to supporting young economists: the youngest author of the dictation tasks receives a special award from the Yury Luzhkov Foundation.\nTogether with the Moscow Sports Department and the Russian and Moscow Tennis Federations, the Foundation holds the annual all-Russian youth competition \u201cTennis Tournament in Memory of Yury Luzhkov\".\nOther sports events supported by the foundation include the annual summer Moscow festival of street sports The BOWL and an amateur tennis tournament \u201cLeather Cap\u201d.\nThe Yuri Luzhkov Foundation consistently works on collecting and systematizing, publishing and popularizing the social, political, literary and scientific heritage of Yu. M. Luzhkov. The archives collected by the Foundation are intended for unimpeded and free use by the general public."}
{"id": "756420", "revid": "45327171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756420", "title": "John Brock", "text": "John Brock may refer to:"}
{"id": "756427", "revid": "2300502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756427", "title": "Luigi Luzzatti", "text": "Luigi Luzzatti (; 11 March 1841 \u2013 29 March 1927) was an Italian financier, political economist, social philosopher, and jurist. He served as the 20th prime minister of Italy between 1910 and 1911.\nLuzzatti came from a wealthy and cultured Jewish family and built a reputation as a social reformer dedicated to raise the working classes from ignorance and poverty. He is remembered being the founder of the Italian credit union movement and for his book \"Dio nella libert\u00e0\" (God in Freedom), in which he advocates religious tolerance. This provoked an exchange of correspondence between him and Benedetto Croce.\nEarly life.\nLuzzatti was born to Jewish parents in Venice on 11 March 1841. After completing his studies in law at the University of Padua, he attracted the attention of the Austrian police by his lectures on political economy, and was obliged to emigrate after starting a mutual aid society among gondoliers. In 1863 he obtained a professorship at the Milan Technical Institute; in 1867 he was appointed professor of constitutional law at Padua, whence he was transferred to the University of Rome.\nGifted with eloquence and energy, he popularized the economic ideas of Franz Hermann Schulze-Delitzsch in Italy, worked for the establishment of a commercial college at Venice, and contributed to the spread of people's banks on a basis of limited liability throughout the country. In 1865 he founded the \"Banca Popolare di Milano\" in Milan, the second cooperative bank in Italy (the first one was the Banca Popolare di Lodi). The popular banks, modelled after the credit unions Schulze-Delitzsch had introduced in the 1850s, aimed to provide credits to peasants, small shopkeepers and artisans whose only option for capital had been pawnbrokers or usurious moneylenders.\nIn 1869 he was appointed by Minghetti under secretary of state to the ministry of agriculture and commerce, in which capacity he abolished government control over commercial companies and promoted a state inquiry into the conditions of industry. Though theoretically a free trader, he was largely instrumental in creating the Italian protective system. In 1877 he participated in the commercial negotiations with France, in 1878 compiled the Italian customs tariff, and subsequently took a leading part in the negotiations of all the commercial treaties between Italy and other countries.\nBanca Romana scandal.\nAppointed minister of the treasury in the first Di Rudin\u00ec cabinet of 1891, he imprudently abolished the system of frequent clearings of banknotes between the state banks, a measure which facilitated the duplication of part of the paper currency and hastened the bank crisis of 1893 and the resulting Banca Romana scandal. A Parliamentary Commission that investigated the bank scandal concluded that former prime minister Francesco Crispi, Prime Minister Giovanni Giolitti, and Luzzatti, had been aware of the conditions of the Banca Romana but had held back that information.\nIn 1896 he entered the second Di Rudin\u00ec cabinet as minister of the treasury, and by timely legislation helped to save the bank of Naples from failure. Following the revolt and suppression of the Fasci Siciliani (1891\u20131894), Luzzatti introduced two measures of social legislation in 1898. The industrial workmen's compensation scheme from 1883 was made obligatory with the employer bearing all costs; and a voluntary fund for contributory disability and old age pensions was created.\nAfter his fall from office in June 1898, his principal achievement was the negotiation of the Franco-Italian commercial treaty, though, as deputy, journalist and professor, he continued to take an active part in all political and economic manifestations. He was again minister of the treasury from November 1903 to March 1905 in Giolitti's second administration, and for the third time from February to May 1906, under Sonnino's premiership. During the latter term of office he achieved the conversion of the Italian 5% debt (reduced to 4% by the tax) to 3\u00be% to be eventually lowered to 3\u00bd%, an operation which other ministers had attempted without success; although the actual conversion was not completed until after the fall of the cabinet of which he formed part the merit is entirely his. In 1907 he was president of the co-operative congress at Cremona.\nPrime minister.\nHe was minister of agriculture in the second Sonnino Cabinet (December 2, 1909 - March 21, 1910), and on the resignation of the latter was called upon to form a cabinet himself. His administration, which lasted until March 18, 1911, was not very successful and fell over a proposed electoral reform. Although a man of first-class financial ability, great honesty and wide culture, he had not the strength of character necessary to lead a government: he showed lack of energy in dealing with opposition and tried to avoid all measures likely to make him unpopular. Furthermore, he never realized that with the chamber, as it was then constituted, he only held office at Giolitti's good pleasure.\nDuring the First World War, he was consistently pro-Ally and strongly supported Italian intervention, but his tone was on the whole pessimistic. Although he did not take office while the war lasted, he was always consulted on all financial matters, and his sound advice was generally followed.\nHe became treasury minister in the second incarnation of the Nitti cabinet (March 12 - May 10, 1920), but did not resume office in the third. At the general elections of May 1921, he decided not to stand for parliament again, and was made a senator. In spite of his advanced age, he continued to write on economic and financial problems with his accustomed lucidity and soundness of judgment, insisting on the necessity for Italy to return to free trade and to reduce government interference in business matters to a minimum.\nDeath and legacy.\nHe died in Rome on March 29, 1927, at the age of 86. He pioneered social legislation in Italy and initiated important social reforms, such as compulsory accident insurance. He also promoted workers' cooperatives, credit unions and voluntary insurance schemes that allowed people to take charge of their future. Luzzatti, nevertheless, remained a typical liberal of his time: he believed that government action to help the poor should be carefully restricted, and that the government should only intervene when private initiative proved inadequate; welfare schemes should not exonerate workers from investing effort in their own moral and economic regeneration.\nAfter becoming Treasury Minister in 1896, he is credited to have saved Italy from bankruptcy. He supported the Zionist movement, specifically agricultural settlements in Palestine."}
{"id": "756429", "revid": "76027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756429", "title": "Moses Luzzatto", "text": ""}
{"id": "756430", "revid": "76027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756430", "title": "Moses H. Luzzatto", "text": ""}
{"id": "756431", "revid": "76027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756431", "title": "Moses Hayyim Luzzatto", "text": ""}
{"id": "756432", "revid": "51049380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756432", "title": "Saint George Parish, Grenada", "text": "Saint George is one of the parishes of Grenada, located on the south-western end of the island. The capital of Grenada, St. George's, is located in this parish. Its horseshoe-shaped harbour is surrounded by the pastel colors of warehouses and it is not uncommon to see red-tiled roofs on traditional shops and homes. Saint George is also the home of the world-famous Grand Anse Beach and many of the island's holiday resorts.\nThe peninsula at the south-western tip of Saint George is called Point Salines, and the only active airport on the island of Grenada, Maurice Bishop International Airport, is located there. The tourist infrastructure is more extensive in Saint George than in the rest of the island, due to the airport, capital city and most popular beaches all being found in this parish. It is also home to St. George's University.\nAs of 2001, Saint George has a population of 35,559, making it the most populous parish of Grenada. It is also the second largest, with an area of .\nReferences.\nCar rental in Grenada : https://doveautosolutions.com/car-rental-grenada/"}
{"id": "756433", "revid": "2126435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756433", "title": "Arjen Robben", "text": "Arjen Robben (; born 23 January 1984) is a Dutch former professional footballer who played as a winger. Known for his dribbling skills, speed, and long-range shots, he is regarded as one of the best players of his generation and one of the greatest wingers of all time. He ranks second for the all-time Dutch top goalscorers (32) in the UEFA Champions League and is the all-time Dutch top assist provider (19) in the competition.\nRobben first came to prominence with Groningen, for whom he was player of the year for the 2000\u201301 Eredivisie season. Two years later he signed for PSV, where he became the Netherlands' Young Player of the Year and won an Eredivisie title. The following season Robben's signature was pursued by leading clubs, and after protracted transfer negotiations, he joined Chelsea in 2004. Robben's Chelsea debut was delayed through injury, but upon returning to fitness, he helped Chelsea bring home two consecutive Premier League titles, and was the Premier League Player of the Month in November 2004. After a third season in England which was punctuated by injury, Robben signed for Real Madrid in a transfer worth \u20ac35 million.\nIn August 2009, Robben transferred to Bayern Munich for a fee of around \u20ac25\u00a0million. In his first season in Munich, Bayern won the league title, Robben's fifth league title in eight years. Robben scored the winning goal in the 2013 Champions League final, being named in the Squad of the Season. In 2014, he was named in the FIFPro World XI and the UEFA Team of the Year, and fourth place in the Ballon d'Or. In Germany, he won 20 trophies, including eight Bundesliga titles and five DFB Pokals. During his long tenure at Bayern, Robben was also known for his fruitful partnership with fellow winger Franck Rib\u00e9ry \u2013 together they were affectionately referred to by the nickname \"Robbery\".\nRobben started in the 2010 FIFA World Cup Final, which the Netherlands lost to Spain. He also appeared at the 2004, 2008 and 2012 UEFA European Championships, and the 2006 and 2014 FIFA World Cups. In the latter, he won the Bronze Ball and was named in the tournament's All-Star Team.\nEarly life.\nRobben was born in Bedum, in the northeastern Netherlands. He took to football from an early age, becoming an adherent of the Coerver Method. Robben's skill in ball control and technical footwork made him a valuable player, and he was quickly signed by regional club FC Groningen. Here, he developed his distinctive style of cutting inside from the right onto his left foot to score some quite spectacular goals.\nClub career.\nGroningen.\nGroningen placed Robben in their first team for the 1999\u20132000 season. He scored three goals in league play. Manager Jan van Dijk added the winger to the first team before Groningen's November 2000 away game against Twente, but he did not play until 3 December 2000 against RKC Waalwijk as a substitute for the injured Leonardo dos Santos in the 79th minute. During the winter, Robben managed to play himself into the starting lineup. In 18\u00a0starts for Groningen over the 2000\u201301 season, he scored two goals. Robben was named player of the year for his first season with the club, and with teammate Jordi Hoogstrate, he demonstrated the strength of the Groningen youth academy. Robben stayed with Groningen and improved steadily during the 2001\u201302 season, playing in 28\u00a0matches and scoring six goals. Robben transferred to PSV for \u20ac3.9\u00a0million before the 2002\u201303 season.\nPSV.\nDuring his first season for PSV, the 2002\u201303 season, Robben played 33\u00a0matches and scored 12\u00a0goals. He was named \"PSV co-player of the year\" along with striker Mateja Ke\u017eman, with whom he formed an attacking partnership still fondly referred to by PSV fans as \"Batman and Robben\". He helped lead PSV to their 17th Dutch title, and won the Talented Player of the Year award. After this good start, PSV could not keep up with rival Ajax and were forced into a fight for second place in the Eredivisie. Robben travelled to London and met with Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson. Manchester United's offer came in much too low for PSV's and Robben's liking; PSV chairman Harry van Raaij told United that the most their \u20ac7\u00a0million offer would buy them was a shirt with Robben's autograph. Almost immediately, Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich offered \u20ac18\u00a0million (\u00a312.1\u00a0million), and PSV accepted. The rest of his season with PSV was disappointing: he injured his hamstring twice and missed several games. By the end of the season, Robben scored five times in 23\u00a0Eredivisie matches.\nChelsea.\n2004\u201305 and 2005\u201306 seasons.\nRobben did not make his competitive debut for Chelsea until 23 October 2004 against Blackburn Rovers, as he was injured in a pre-season friendly match against Roma, breaking a metatarsal bone in his right foot in a challenge from Olivier Dacourt. During this time, he told club doctors that he had noticed an unfamiliar growth on one of his testicles. The medical team quickly did tests to check for testicular cancer, but he was subsequently given the all clear.\nRobben proved to be a crucial player for the 2004\u201305 season; in November 2004, he was awarded the Premier League Player of the Month award. Robben ended the 2004\u201305 season with seven goals, his second highest professional total. He was shortlisted for the PFA Young Player of the Year, but was beaten by Manchester United's Wayne Rooney. Robben was badly injured in a Premier League match away to Blackburn Rovers and forced to sit out the 2005 Football League Cup Final, Chelsea's title run-in and progress to the semi-finals of the UEFA Champions League. Back to fitness for 2005\u201306, Robben was an integral part of the Chelsea left wing. In 28\u00a0matches, Robben contributed six goals as Chelsea won a second consecutive Premier League championship, the first back-to-back titles for the west London club.\n2006\u201307 season.\nRobben was later named man of the match on 23 December 2006 against Wigan Athletic, a match where he got two assists and the winning goal.\nRobben was inflicted with yet another injury in a match against Liverpool on 20 January 2007. Robben made his return in a 3\u20130 victory against Middlesbrough in February, driving in a shot that took a deflection past Mark Schwarzer for an own goal by Abel Xavier. He came on as a substitute for Claude Mak\u00e9l\u00e9l\u00e9 in the 2007 League Cup final against Arsenal and set up the winning goal for Didier Drogba. Robben scored a goal in the second round of the Champions League against Porto, which led to Chelsea winning the tie 3\u20132 on aggregate. At the end of March 2007, Robben underwent a knee operation after sustaining a knee injury upon returning from international duty that was expected to rule him out for at least four weeks. He only made two further appearances for Chelsea, both of which were as a substitute and both of which would prove to be key games for the club. His first appearance since returning from injury was against Liverpool in the Champions League semi-final second leg which went to penalties. Robben went on to have his penalty saved by Pepe Reina, and Chelsea ultimately lost.\nRobben's final appearance for the club came against Manchester United in the 2007 FA Cup Final. Robben replaced Joe Cole at half-time, but was then substituted himself for Ashley Cole in extra time as Chelsea emerged victorious. Spanish club Real Madrid were interested in two of Chelsea's players. Then manager Bernd Schuster is said to have demanded Michael Ballack, while Real Madrid's then president Ram\u00f3n Calder\u00f3n was known to favour Robben. Robben said to reporters of Spanish newspaper \"AS\", \"I do not know when a deal will be reached. I would like to send a message to the Madrid fans, but I can't until my future is sorted.\"\nReal Madrid eventually secured Robben's services in August 2007. He told Chelsea's official club website:\nReal Madrid.\nRobben completed his move to Real Madrid on a five-year deal on 22 August 2007, with the transfer fee reported as \u00a324\u00a0million (\u20ac35\u00a0million). He made his debut on 18 September as a substitute for Ra\u00fal during a Champions League match against Werder Bremen, which Real Madrid won 2\u20131. His La Liga debut came on 23 September, as a substitute for Royston Drenthe in a 1\u20131 away draw against Real Valladolid. On 10 February 2008, Robben scored his first goal, coming at home in a 7\u20130 victory against Valladolid. Robben proved crucial for many Real Madrid matches, making his famous runs down the left wing and quickly became a first choice for the left midfield position, making 28 appearances during his debut season and scoring five goals. Real Madrid won the Liga title with multiple games to spare, and were already the champions of Spain when they played their arch-rivals Barcelona on 7 May 2008. The Barcelona players formed a guard of honour as the Madrid team came onto the pitch at the Santiago Bernab\u00e9u Stadium, and Robben played an important part in Real Madrid's subsequent 4\u20131 victory, scoring the champions' second goal.\nRobben retained his key role in the Real Madrid midfield during the 2008\u201309 season, playing 35 times and scoring 8 goals. Although the Dutchman was one of the Spanish side's most important players in the pre-season games leading up to the 2009\u201310 season, having scored three goals and help set up another four, he was among the players whose place in the first team became threatened following the arrival of Florentino P\u00e9rez and the signings of Cristiano Ronaldo and Kak\u00e1. Real Madrid accepted a bid of around \u20ac25\u00a0million for Robben from Bayern Munich. Robben claimed he was \"forced\" to leave Real Madrid, saying that he \"didn't want to go, but the club wanted to sell him\".\nBayern Munich.\n2009\u201310 season.\nOn 28 August 2009, Robben moved to Bayern Munich for around \u20ac25\u00a0million. He was given the number 10 jersey, last worn by his fellow Dutchman, Roy Makaay. On 9 March 2010, Robben scored the deciding goal in Bayern's 2\u20133 defeat (4\u20134 on aggregate over two legs) against Fiorentina, taking them through to the quarter-finals of the 2009\u201310 Champions League on away goals.\nOn 7 April 2010, Robben sent Bayern into the semi-finals of the Champions League with a stunning volley against Manchester United from the edge of the area into the corner of the net. The game ended 3\u20132 to United (4\u20134 on aggregate), with Bayern advancing again due to away goals.\nOn 17 April 2010, he scored his first hat-trick in the Bundesliga against Hannover 96 in the Allianz Arena. The game ended 7\u20130 to the Bavarians. On 8 May 2010, he won his first Bundesliga title with Bayern after scoring two goals in their 3\u20131 victory over Hertha BSC, finishing as Bayern's top scorer in the process.\nA week later, Bayern played in the DFB-Pokal final against the previous champions of the tournament, Werder Bremen, in Berlin's Olympiastadion. Bayern won the game 4\u20130, with Robben scoring the first of his team's goals from a penalty kick. Robben thus helped the Bavarians achieve their 15th DFB-Pokal title. On 25 May 2010, Robben was named Footballer of the Year in Germany for 2010. He was the fourth foreigner and the first Dutchman to win the title. He finished the 2009\u201310 season with 23 goals in 37 appearances.\n2010\u201311 season.\nThe 2010\u201311 season started poorly for Robben, after medical tests confirmed that his hamstring had not properly healed and would be out for two months. Bayern chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge stated that \"Of course, Bayern Munich are very angry\" with the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB), and would be seeking compensation from them, continuing, \"Once again we must pay the bill as a club after a player is seriously injured playing for a national team.\" On 15 January 2011, he returned to first-team action, coming on as a substitute in the 1\u20131 away draw with VfL Wolfsburg.\nRobben was nominated for the UEFA Champions League Best Midfielder award, but the award went to his international compatriot Wesley Sneijder. He has also been nominated for the prestigious Ballon d'Or award and the FIFA Pusk\u00e1s Award, which goes to the best goal of the year, and he has also been nominated for FIFA's FIFPro World XI 2010 squad thanks to his season with Bayern Munich. He finished the 2010\u201311 season with 13 goals in 17 appearances.\n2011\u201312 season.\nIn the second leg of the semi-finals of the 2011\u201312 Champions League, against his former club Real Madrid, which was then managed by Jos\u00e9 Mourinho (who had been his manager at Chelsea), after Bayern fell behind 2\u20130, Robben converted a penalty to level the tie at 3\u20133. Bayern advanced to the final after winning the resulting penalty shootout.\nOn 3 May 2012, it was reported that Robben had signed a new contract with Bayern which would last until 2015.\nRobben had an extra-time penalty saved by former teammate Petr \u010cech in the 2012 Champions League final at the Allianz Arena against Chelsea. Had he scored, Bayern Munich would have led Chelsea 2\u20131. The match, however, ended in a penalty shootout which Chelsea won. That was the fourth major cup final that he had been on the losing side during the last two years (FIFA World Cup final, two Champions League finals and the DFB-Pokal). Three days later in the same stadium, and while playing as a second-half substitute for the Netherlands in a friendly against Bayern Munich, he was jeered by some disgruntled Bayern fans every time he touched the ball (due to his penalty miss in the Champions League final, and as he did not play on Bayern's side during that match due to a decision taken by Netherlands coach Bert van Marwijk). The match had been organised to compensate Bayern, since Robben aggravated an injury playing for the Netherlands at the 2010 World Cup, and went on to miss several months of the 2010\u201311 season. He finished the 2011\u201312 season with 19 goals in 36 appearances.\n2012\u201313 season.\nIn the 2012\u201313 season, Robben played in the German Super Cup. He had started the season on the bench, as manager Jupp Heynckes preferred to start Thomas M\u00fcller on the right wing, with Toni Kroos at the attacking midfielder position. Robben had played through the season as a substitute but earned his chance to start again after Kroos was injured during the Champions League tie against Juventus. He started on the right wing for the rest of the season, having moved M\u00fcller back to the middle. Robben started against Borussia Dortmund in the quarter-finals of the DFB-Pokal and scored the game's lone goal in the 43rd minute. In the Champions League semi-final against Barcelona, Robben started both games and scored in both, including the go-ahead goal in the second leg. Bayern would then go on to return to the final in Wembley Stadium. Robben atoned for his penalty missed the previous season by setting up teammate Mario Mand\u017euki\u0107's goal to open the scoring in the 60th minute then netting an 89th-minute winner in a 2\u20131 victory over Borussia Dortmund to give Bayern their fifth Champions League/European Cup title. During the presentation, he was named Man of the Match by UEFA. Hence, he has been called \"Mr Wembley\" since then. He finished the 2012\u201313 season with 13 goals in 31 appearances.\n2013\u201314 season.\nRobben scored his first goals of the 2013\u201314 season in the 2013 DFL-Supercup, a 4\u20132 defeat to Borussia Dortmund. On 9 August 2013, his opening goal helped Bayern to a 3\u20131 win over Borussia M\u00f6nchengladbach in their first match of the 2013\u201314 Bundesliga campaign. On 17 September, he scored in Bayern's Champions League opener against CSKA Moscow at the Allianz Arena. He went on to score two further goals during the Champions League group stage; in away wins against Manchester City and CSKA as Bayern finished as group winners. On 23 November, Robben was one of three scorers as Bayern beat title rivals Borussia Dortmund 3\u20130 at the Westfalenstadion. On 4 December, Robben was substituted with a deep cut on his right knee in a 2\u20130 DFB-Pokal win away to FC Augsburg which prevented him from taking part in the 2013 FIFA Club World Cup.\nOn 1 March 2014, Robben scored a hat-trick in Bayern's 5\u20131 win over Schalke 04. On 19 March, he signed a contract extension with Bayern which will keep him at the club until 2017. On 9 April, Robben scored Bayern's third goal in a 3\u20131 Champions League quarter-final against Manchester United, to secure qualification to the semi-finals. On 17 May, Robben scored Bayern's opening goal in a 2\u20130 extra-time defeat of Borussia Dortmund in the 2014 DFB-Pokal Final, giving him his third league and cup double in five seasons with the club. His goal also made him the first player to score in three separate DFB-Pokal finals. On 13 July, after winning the third-place match at the 2014 World Cup, Louis van Gaal invited Robben to follow him to Manchester United, but the latter ruled out the move. He finished the 2013\u201314 season with 21 goals in 45 appearances.\n2014\u201315 season.\nIn Bayern's opening match of the 2014\u201315 Bundesliga season, Robben scored one goal and assisted the other as the team defeated VfL Wolfsburg 2\u20131 on 22 August 2014. On 1 November, he scored the winning goal from a penalty kick against Borussia Dortmund in \"Der Klassiker\". On 16 December 2014, Robben scored his 100th competitive goal for Bayern Munich in a home match against SC Freiburg.\nOn 21 February 2015, Robben scored twice in a 6\u20130 win against SC Paderborn, giving him the record of scoring against every Bundesliga team he had faced. He ended 2014\u201315 alongside teammate Robert Lewandowski as joint second-top goalscorer in the Bundesliga with 17 goals. This was despite the player missing the last two months of the season through injury. He finished the 2014\u201315 season with 19 goals in 30 appearances.\n2015\u201316 season.\nRobben started his 2015\u201316 season by scoring the opening goal of the DFL-Supercup against VfL Wolfsburg. The match finished in a 1\u20131 draw, and Robben scored in the subsequent shootout, however Bayern were defeated.\nRobben's first goal of the Bundesliga season came from a penalty kick in a 3\u20130 defeat of Bayer Leverkusen on 29 August. However, an injury suffered six days later when playing for the Netherlands against Iceland in qualification for UEFA Euro 2016 kept him out of Bayern's next nine fixtures. On 24 October, Robben returned to the Bayern team, playing 65 minutes and scoring the opening goal of a 4\u20130 win against 1. FC K\u00f6ln, the club's 1,000th Bundesliga victory. He made his first Champions League appearance of the season on 4 November, scoring after coming on as a substitute in Bayern's 5\u20131 win over Arsenal. He finished the 2015\u201316 season with seven goals in 22 appearances.\n2016\u201317 season.\nRobben, recovering from his injury, was chosen for a friendly against SV Lippstadt 08. He scored a goal, shortly before being substituted because of another injury in the 36th minute. Robben's six-week injury caused him to miss several matches. He returned to training and remained on the bench until 21 September Bundesliga match against Hertha BSC, where he came on instead of Thomas M\u00fcller and scored in the 3\u20130 victory. Robben scored in both first and second leg of the round-of-sixteen tie against Arsenal as Bayern won 10\u20132 on aggregate. He finished the 2016\u201317 season with 16 goals in 37 appearances.\n2017\u201318 season.\nOn 16 January 2017, Robben signed a one-year extension with Bayern, keeping him at the club until the end of the 2017\u201318 season. He scored a goal with his right foot for the first time since February 2015 in a 4\u20130 victory over 1. FSV Mainz 05 on 16 September. On 18 October, Robben made his 100th Champions League appearance in a 3\u20130 victory over Celtic F.C. in the group stage match of the competition. On 4 November, Robben scored a stunning goal in a 3\u20131 away win over their Borussia Dortmund in Der Klassiker which made him Bayern's most successful non-German scorer in the Bundesliga and the most successful Dutch goal scorer in the Bundesliga. He scored twice in a 6\u20130 away victory over SC Paderborn as Bayern went on through to the semi-final of DFB-Pokal on 6 February 2018. On 25 April, he had an injury within the first ten minutes of the Champions League semi-final first leg against Real Madrid, which forced him to miss the rest of the season.\nRobben won his seventh Bundesliga title and set a Dutch record by winning his 11th career domestic league title surpassing Dutch legend Johan Cruyff's 10 career domestic league titles. He finished the 2017\u201318 season with seven goals in 34 appearances.\nOn 11 May 2018, Robben signed a one-year contract; extending his stay until the end of the 2018\u201319 season.\n2018\u201319 season.\nOn 12 August, he started the season by playing in the 2018 DFL-Supercup for 58 minutes and won the title as Bayern defeated Eintracht Frankfurt with a 5\u20130 victory. On 27 November, Robben scored two goals in a 5\u20131 win against S.L. Benfica in the Champions League. On 2 December, Robben said in an interview: \"I can say that this is my last year [at Bayern] and it is good like that. I think it is the right moment after ten years. The club moves on and I may move on. It is the end of a very good and long period.\"\nOn 18 May 2019, he scored his last league goal for Bayern in Bundesliga making it a 5\u20131 victory against Frankfurt, which meant Bayern winning their 28th Bundesliga title and Robben winning his eighth. On 25 May 2019, Robben won his fifth DFB-Pokal as Bayern defeated RB Leipzig 3\u20130 in the 2019 DFB-Pokal Final. He finished the 2018\u201319 season with six goals in 19 appearances. In 201 Bundesliga matches he scored 99 goals.\nOn 4 July 2019, Robben announced his decision to retire from football.\nReturn to Groningen.\nOn 27 June 2020, Robben announced his return to the game, signing with FC Groningen, the club he started his career with, in an effort to help the team recover from COVID-19 setbacks. He scored his first goal for Groningen in a pre-season friendly against Arminia Bielefeld. On 13 September 2020, he made his league debut for Groningen against PSV, but he was substituted after only 28 minutes due to injury. After a nearly seven-month absence, he made his return as a substitute in a loss to SC Heerenveen on 11 April 2021. Robben returned in Groningen's starting line-up on 9 May; he provided two assists in a 4\u20130 win at Emmen.\nOn 15 July 2021, Robben announced his second and final retirement from professional football.\nInternational career.\nIn April 2003, he made his Netherlands international debut in a friendly match against Portugal at age 19.\nEuro 2004.\nRobben's first participation at an international tournament came at UEFA Euro 2004 when manager Dick Advocaat called up younger players, such as Wesley Sneijder and John Heitinga. During the group stage of the tournament, Advocaat substituted Robben in the 66th minute to defend a 2\u20131 lead over the Czech Republic. The Czechs, however, then scored two goals and won 3\u20132, which led to criticism about Advocaat's decision. In the quarter-finals, Robben scored the deciding kick in the penalty shootout between the Netherlands and Sweden, which ensured that at the fifth attempt, the Dutch finally won a shootout.\n2006 World Cup.\nRobben played in his first 2006 FIFA World Cup qualifier in 2006. In six games for the Netherlands, Robben scored two goals. The Netherlands qualified for the 2006 World Cup and in their opening match against Serbia and Montenegro, Robben scored the winning goal in the 18th minute, and was named the Player of the match. In the match against the Ivory Coast, Robben received this award the second time, thus becoming one of the eight players in the tournament to have won multiple Man of the Match awards.\nEuro 2008.\nDuring Euro 2008, new Dutch manager Marco van Basten changed the side's formation to 4\u20132\u20133\u20131, preferring the midfield trio of Rafael van der Vaart, Wesley Sneijder and Dirk Kuyt, with Robben left to battle for a position with Robin van Persie on the wing. In the group match against France, which the Netherlands won 4\u20131, Robben was brought on at half-time. He dragged the ball out of reach of a defender near the half-way line and paced his way ahead of three defenders, then crossed straight to Van Persie, who powered a shot into the goal past France goalkeeper Gr\u00e9gory Coupet. At 2\u20130, Thierry Henry scored a goal for France, making it 2\u20131, but almost directly after the restart, Robben was played through by Sneijder and he ran at the France goal and was forced into an acute angle, but despite the angle, he shot the ball into the net past Coupet.\n2010 World Cup.\nRobben was selected by new manager Bert van Marwijk for the final 23-man Dutch squad for the 2010 World Cup. In the team's last friendly match against Hungary, just before its flight to South Africa on 4 June, Robben fell awkwardly and picked up a hamstring injury, causing concern over his fitness for the tournament. On 5 June, Van Marwijk announced that he had \"decided not to summon any substitute for Arjen. I want to give him every chance to still participate in the World Cup\". On 12 June, Robben arrived in South Africa to join the team. He was an unused substitute for the opening match against Denmark as they coasted to a 2\u20130 victory, and again in the 1\u20130 victory against Japan. He came on in the 73rd minute against Cameroon in their 2\u20131 victory, hitting the post from which Klaas-Jan Huntelaar scored from the rebound.\nOn 28 June 2010, Robben started his first match against Slovakia in which he went on to score the first goal in the second round as the Netherlands won 2\u20131. He also won the man of the match award. Robben scored the third goal with a well-placed header in the semi-finals against Uruguay which the Netherlands won 3\u20132 to reach the final. Robben played for the full match in the final as the Netherlands lost 1\u20130 to Spain. Robben had Netherlands's best opportunity of the match when played in on goal by Wesley Sneijder in the 62nd minute of the match, but was denied by Iker Casillas. Robben was nominated for the 2010 World Cup Golden Ball, the tournament's best player, which was won by Diego Forl\u00e1n.\nEuro 2012.\nRobben was selected to play for the Netherlands at Euro 2012. He started in the first group stage match, a 1\u20130 loss to Denmark, in which he hit the post with a curled effort. In the next match, a 2\u20131 loss to Germany, he hopped over the advertising boards and walked the long way round after being subbed off for Dirk Kuyt because he thought he could have inspired the Netherlands to a win. After a 2\u20131 loss to Portugal, the Netherlands were knocked out with three straight defeats.\n2014 World Cup.\nIn the Netherlands' first match of the 2014 World Cup, Robben scored two goals in a 5\u20131 win over Spain. In the Netherlands' second group stage match, a 3\u20132 win over Australia, Robben scored the team's opening goal as they qualified for the knockout stage. In the round of 16 knock-out match with Mexico, the Netherlands won on a penalty awarded after Robben went down following a challenge from Rafael M\u00e1rquez. The Associated Press said that Robben's \"theatrical\" fall \"did little to defuse the debate about his reputation for diving\". Robben maintained that the penalty was correct but admitted to falling easily earlier in the match, telling a Dutch TV channel that \"the one [at the end] was a penalty, but the other one was a dive in the first half. I shouldn't be doing that\".\nIn the quarter-final, Robben scored the Netherlands' second kick in a 4\u20133 penalty shootout defeat of Costa Rica. On 11 July, Robben was named on the ten-man shortlist for FIFA's Golden Ball award for the tournament's best player.\nOn 28 August 2015, Robben was named captain of the Netherlands, replacing Robin van Persie.\n2018 World Cup.\nOn 10 October 2017, Robben retired from international football after the team's unsuccessful 2018 World Cup qualifying campaign. He collected 96 caps between 2003 and 2017 for the \"Oranje\" and scored 37 goals.\nStyle of play.\nThroughout most of his career, Robben was regarded as one of the best wingers in the world, with ESPN stating he is \"able to take on and beat defenders at the drop of a hat, Robben's ability to get to the byline and deliver in accurate crosses instils fear into any defence\". Usually deployed on the right wing, Robben employed his signature move by cutting inside on his stronger left foot to move to a more central attacking position, and used his speed and dribbling skills to take on defenders until he found the space to make an attempt on goal. Robben had a noticeable preference for using his dominant foot throughout his career: he scored 134 league goals with his left foot, while only ten league goals came with his weaker right foot.\nDuring the course of a match Robben would often drift to the left wing, with his teammate, in the case of Bayern Munich, Franck Rib\u00e9ry, switching over to the right. Another factor in his playing style is his relationship with the right-sided full-back. At Bayern, this partnership with Philipp Lahm had benefits for the team's efficiency and chemistry. Robben's defensive work improved when he went to Bayern where he often tracked back and covered for his partner when he pushed forward and became a temporary right back.\nRobben was often accused of diving, and at times he openly admitted to the charges. In December 2011, Robben apologised for a dive against VfL Bochum in a DFB-Pokal match which earned him a yellow card, saying, \"I must not do things like this.\" In July 2014, Robben admitted to diving in the first half of Netherlands' match against Mexico in the last 16 round of the 2014 World Cup, but maintained that he had not dived for the decisive penalty he won in stoppage time which Netherlands converted to win 2\u20131. Following the incident, Robben's former manager at Chelsea, Jos\u00e9 Mourinho, said that Robben's speed and creativity cause opponents who cannot stop him to foul him, but \"sometimes [Robben] tries to get an advantage, or to get a penalty\". \nEarlier in his career, Robben also drew criticism from pundits and other players for his perceived selfishness, his lack of composure in important games, and for his struggles with injuries throughout his career, which were initially thought to have limited his potential; however, he worked to develop his physique and the mental aspect of his game, and became a more consistent and world class team player as his career progressed, who was known for providing a good number of assists as well as scoring goals himself.\nPost-retirement.\nIn August 2025, Robben competed in the at the CUPRA FIP Bronze tournament in Westerbork, appearing on the professional padel circuit. According to the International Padel Federation (FIP), he and partner Werner Lootsma won a qualifying match before being eliminated in the first round of the main draw.\nPersonal life.\nRobben married his girlfriend Bernadien Eillert on 9 June 2007 in Groningen. The two met while in high school in the city, at the Kamerlingh Onnes, and have two sons, Luka (born 2008) and Kai (born 2012) and a daughter, Lynn (born 2010). Robben's father, Hans, works as his agent.\nSponsorship.\nRobben has a sponsorship deal with German sportswear and equipment supplier Adidas. Robben featured in EA Sports' \"FIFA\" video game series before his retirement, and was the third-highest-rated player in \"FIFA 15\".\nCareer statistics.\nInternational.\nRobben scored his first ever international goal in October 2003 during a UEFA Euro 2004 qualifier against Moldova. He ultimately decided to retire from international duty in 2017 following their unsuccessful qualifying campaign for the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\nHonours.\nPSV\nChelsea\nReal Madrid\nBayern Munich\nNetherlands\nIndividual"}
{"id": "756434", "revid": "32233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756434", "title": "Simon Ashkenazi", "text": ""}
{"id": "756436", "revid": "3250056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756436", "title": "Alexei F. Lvov", "text": ""}
{"id": "756438", "revid": "32233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756438", "title": "Szymon Aszkenazy", "text": ""}
{"id": "756439", "revid": "52087374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756439", "title": "Alexei Lvov", "text": "Alexei Fyodorovich Lvov (; \u2013 ) was a Russian composer, best known for the composition of the imperial-era Russian national anthem, \"God Save the Tsar\".\nBiography.\nLvov was born into a family which was keenly interested in music. He was the son of Feodor Petrovich Lvov, who was Maestro of the Imperial Chapel in St Petersburg from 1826 to 1836 (having succeeded Bortniansky). Lvov codified the traditional Russian liturgical musical style called \"Obikhod,\" which is the standard repertory of most Russian Orthodox churches in the world. It is a simple style. These melodies were later edited and improved by Bakhmetev.\nAlexei Fyodorovich began violin lessons at a very young age and performed regularly in concerts given at his home: for instance, at 9 he was the soloist in a performance of a violin concerto by Viotti. Although he had a number of teachers in his youth, from the age of 19 onwards he began to study independently, seeking to develop his own personal style through careful attention to the works of such celebrated violinists as Corelli, Tartini, Viotti, Kreutzer and Rode. He nevertheless continued to study composition formally under the supervision of I. G. Miller (who was also one of the teachers of Glinka).\nOutside the world of music, his general education had a technical emphasis. In 1818, he completed his studies at the Institute of Communications, and embarked on a career as a civil engineer in the Imperial Army, eventually attaining the rank of general. In 1828, he was appointed Aide-de-camp to Tsar Nicholas\u00a0I.\nLvov formed a string quartet in St Petersburg, and organised weekly concerts at his private residence, which were attended by members of high society. At these concerts it was quite usual for there to be guest performances by distinguished musicians who were visiting the Russian capital; among these were Liszt, Robert and Clara Schumann, and Berlioz. His quartet undertook a number of tours in Europe, where Lvov was able to perform to public audiences (in his home country he was able to play only to private audiences owing to his elevated social rank). He also counted Mendelssohn, Meyerbeer and Spontini amongst his personal friends.\nIn 1837, Lvov succeeded his father as Maestro of the Imperial Chapel, remaining in the position until 1861. In 1850, he founded the Russian Concert Society (\u0420\u0443\u0441\u0441\u043a\u043e\u0435 \u043a\u043e\u043d\u0446\u0435\u0440\u0442\u043d\u043e\u0435 \u043e\u0431\u0449\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u043e), which was among the pioneers of symphonic concerts in Russia. In 1867, with the onset of deafness, he was obliged to withdraw from musical activity.\nAs a composer, Lvov's style was eclectic. He combined the traditions of Russian musical culture with strong Italian and (especially) German influences.\nLvov was married, and had a son and two daughters.\nHe was entombed in the Pa\u017eaislis Monastery, Kaunas (Lithuania).\nOther publications.\nThese include:"}
{"id": "756442", "revid": "28438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756442", "title": "Georgy E. Lvov", "text": ""}
{"id": "756443", "revid": "38104346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756443", "title": "Match grade", "text": "Match grade frequently refers to quality firearm parts and ammunition that are suitable for a competitive match. Sometimes it also refers to other devices and parts that are made with high precision in mind.\nDescription.\nIn firearms, the term is used to refer to ammunition and gun parts that are designed and manufactured in such a way that they have a relatively narrow tolerance and high level of accuracy. No standards are defined for its qualification and as such it is more of a relative term. In addition to its use in shooting sports, match grade equipment is often employed by military and law enforcement sharpshooters.\nThus, many gun manufacturers use the term \"match grade\" to describe their products. For instance, the Heckler &amp; Koch Mark 23 weapons system is considered so specifically tooled for combat that it is match grade, one primary reason that the pistol and its components were selected by the United States Special Operations Command (SOCOM) for service. The Springfield Armory XD-M (with 'M' standing for match) features components that were more advanced than those of the regular XD pistol, such as sights and the barrel, which are deemed match grade. The magazines have extended capacities for target or combat shooting and the slide also has a more durable melonite finish. SIG Sauer released a line of self-defense ammunition, Elite Performance Ammunition, which they deem to be match grade, for increased performance and reliability.\nManufacturing match grade ammunition and other parts requires extremely tight tolerances and quality control. It is not unusual for match-grade ammunition and components to cost ten times more than comparable non-match equivalents, owing both to the increased labor expended in creation and much more rigorous testing. Match grade ammunition is often subjected to higher randomized testing to ensure consistency and accuracy, reducing the statistical likelihood of a dud round. Match grade components are often selected by testing the performance of multiple, identically configured firearms, and then eliminating those that don't perform to expectation."}
{"id": "756444", "revid": "4145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756444", "title": "Air speed indicator", "text": ""}
{"id": "756445", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756445", "title": "HK SOCOM", "text": ""}
{"id": "756446", "revid": "2387872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756446", "title": "Georgy Lvov", "text": "Prince Georgy Yevgenyevich Lvov ( \u2013 7/8 March 1925) was a Russian aristocrat, statesman and the first prime minister of the Russian Republic from 15 March to 20 July 1917. As Russia's \"de facto\" head of state, he led the Provisional Government after the February Revolution led to the suspension of the Russian monarchy.\nA member of the Lvov princely family, Lvov was born in Dresden, Germany, and gained national fame for his relief work in the Russian Far East during the Russo-Japanese War. In 1906, he was elected to the First Duma as a member of the Constitutional Democratic Party. After the February Revolution, Lvov was made head of the Provisional Government and oversaw a number of liberal reforms. A series of political crises ultimately brought down his government, and in July 1917 he resigned as prime minister and was succeeded by his war minister, Alexander Kerensky. After the October Revolution, Lvov was arrested by the Bolsheviks, but later escaped to France by way of the United States. He settled in Paris and died in 1925.\nEarly life and education.\nGeorgy Lvov was born on 2 November 1861 (21 October, Old Style, Julian calendar) in Dresden, Saxony, then part of the German Confederation. The Lvov princely family were among the oldest Russian noble families, tracing their roots from the sovereign Rurik dynasty princes of Yaroslavl. His father was a reform-minded liberal who spent almost all his income on his children's education; Lvov and his five brothers were sent off to the most prestigious Moscow schools. Throughout his youth, Georgy lived with his family at their ancestral home at Popovka in Tula Governorate, less than away from Moscow and only a few miles away from Yasnaya Polyana, the home of writer Leo Tolstoy. The Lvovs counted Tolstoy as one of their closest friends.\nBy the standards of the Russian noble class, the Lvovs lived a frugal lifestyle. Luxuries were minimal and their estate was considered small at only . The Lvovs generated massive debts in excess of around 150,000 roubles by the end of the 1870s. With the abolition of serfdom, they fell into the category of landowners who did not have the means to live in the manner to which many other Russian nobles had been accustomed. In order to pay off their arrears, the family were forced to sell their other landed estates, a brewery in Bryansk, and their flat in Moscow. Despite this, they remained heavily in debt and were faced with the prospect of either having to sell Popovka or convert it into a profitable farm. The Lvovs opted for the latter, with Georgy later recalling: \"The idea of giving up the home of our ancestors was unthinkable\". The farm at Popovka had become so dilapidated after decades of neglect that it required strenuous work to restore it. By this time his father was too ill to work, leaving Georgy's four older brothers and only sister to take charge of the farm while he studied law at the University of Moscow. The family laid off all their servants and lived like peasants \u2015 Lvov would later recall this time as a source of his own emancipation: \"It separated us from the upper crust and made us democratic\". As a result of their labour, all debts were repaid by the late 1880s and their ancestral home saved.\nIn 1899, Prince Lvov married a Hungarian-born portrait painter Vilma Lwoff-Parlaghy in Prague; they were quickly divorced, though Vilma continued to style herself the \"Princess Lwoff-Parlaghy\" using her artist name with the authorization of Prince Lvov. The prince also continued to provide her with a permanent annual allowance.\nLvov was also married to Countess Julia Alexeievna Bobrinskaya (1867\u20131903), great-great-granddaughter of Grigory Orlov and Catherine the Great, without issue. They met whilst Lvov was working in a soup kitchen in Tambov Governorate during the Russian famine of 1891\u20131892.\nPre-revolution.\nRusso-Japanese War.\nWith the outbreak of war between the Empire of Japan and the Russian Empire in January 1904, the provincial zemstvos were mobilised to assist with the war effort. To help the Red Cross on the Manchurian front, thirteen zemstvos formed a combined medical brigade consisting of 360 doctors and nurses, led by Lvov. This marked the first time that zemstvos had been allowed to organise themselves at a national level after their powers had been restricted by Alexander III in 1890. Lvov had pleaded with Tsar Nicholas to let the brigade go; the tsar was so moved by his patriotic sentiment that he ended up hugging and kissing him and wished him well. The relief mission, which won high praise from Russian military leaders, turned Lvov into a national hero and enabled the zemstvos to reintegrate themselves into Russian governing society.\nRevolution of 1905.\nA year later he won election to the First Duma, and was nominated for a ministerial position. He became chairman of the All-Russian Union of Zemstvos in 1914, and in 1915 he became a leader of the Union of Zemstvos as well as a member of Zemgor, a joint committee of the Union of Zemstvos and the Union of Towns that helped supply the military and tend to the wounded from World War I. In December 1916, after Prince Lvov's tirades at the Congress of Zemstvos, the Voluntary Organisations would allow no one to work for the government unless their collaboration were purchased by political concessions.\nFebruary Revolution.\nOn 14 January O.S. (27 January N.S.) Lvov proposed to Grand Duke Nicholas Nikolaevich that he should take control of the country. At the end of January negotiations took place between the Allied powers in Petrograd; unofficially they sought to clarify the internal situation in Russia.\nHead of the provisional government.\nDuring the February Revolution and the abdication of Nicholas II, emperor of Russia, Lvov was made head of the provisional government founded by the Duma on 2 March 1917.\nDuring his first weeks as prime minister, Lvov presided over a series of fleeting reforms which sought to radically liberalise Russia. Universal adult suffrage was introduced, freedoms of press and speech were granted, capital punishment abolished, and all legal restrictions of religion, class and race were removed. In late March, a delegation of women suffragettes planned to lobby Lvov for the right of women to vote in local government elections. Expecting a strenuous battle, the suffragettes were shocked to learn that Lvov had already granted women the right to vote, saying \"Why shouldn't women vote? [...] Surely, with universal suffrage there can be no reason to exclude women\". Lvov's reforms helped create a new culture of democracy in Russia. One peasant from Penza province changed his surname to Lvov, and another to 'Demakratov'.\nUnable to rally sufficient support, he resigned in July 1917 in favour of his Minister of War, Alexander Kerensky. \nAfter the October Revolution he settled in Tyumen. In the winter of 1917 he was arrested and transferred to Yekaterinburg. Three months later, Lvov and two other prisoners (Lopukhin and Prince Nikolai Golitsyn) were released before the court under a written undertaking not to leave the place. The local war commissar, Filipp Goloshchekin, intended to execute Lvov and the other prisoners, but was ordered not to by Isaac Steinberg, the People's Commissar for Justice, a Left-Socialist Revolutionary while they were still in coalition with the Bolsheviks. Lvov immediately left Yekaterinburg, made his way to Omsk, occupied by the anti-Bolshevik Czechoslovak Legion. The Provisional Siberian Government, headed by Pyotr Vologodsky, was formed in Omsk and instructed Lvov to leave for the United States (since it was believed that this country was capable of providing the fastest and most effective assistance to anti-Bolshevik forces) to meet with President Woodrow Wilson and other statesmen to inform them on the aims of the anti-Soviet forces and receiving assistance from former allies of Russia in the First World War. In October 1918 he travelled to the United States but was late as in November of the same year the First World War ended and preparations began for the peace conference in Paris, where the centre of world politics moved.\nHaving failed to achieve any practical results in the United States, Lvov departed to France, where in 1918\u20131920 he was at the head of the Russian political meeting in Paris. He was at the source of the labor exchanges system to help Russian emigrants, transferred to their disposal the funds of Zemgor, stored in the National Bank of the United States. Later he left politics, living in Paris in poverty, working at handicraft and writing his memoirs. Georgy Lvov died in Paris, France on 7 March 1925 at the age of 63.\nMemorials.\nThere is a memorial to Prince Lvov in Aleksin as well as a small exhibition on him in the town museum. In Popovka there is another memorial opposite his local church and a plaque on the wall of the local school he founded. He died in Boulogne-sur-Seine and is buried in Sainte-Genevi\u00e8ve-des-Bois Russian Cemetery in France.\nA relative of his by the name of Prince Andre Nikita Lwoff (1901\u20131933), variously described as either Georgy Lvov's son or nephew, is buried in the old cemetery in Menton, France.\nFurther reading.\nLvov wrote an autobiography, '\u0412\u043e\u0441\u043f\u043e\u043c\u0438\u043d\u0430\u043d\u0438\u044f' (\"Memories\"), while in exile and a biography was also written in 1932 by Tikhon Polner entitled '\u0416\u0438\u0437\u043d\u0435\u043d\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u043f\u0443\u0442\u044c \u043a\u043d\u044f\u0437\u044f \u0413\u0435\u043e\u0440\u0433\u0456\u044f \u0415\u0432\u0433\u0435\u043d\u0456\u0435\u0432\u0438\u0447\u0430 \u041b\u044c\u0432\u043e\u0432\u0430. \u041b\u0438\u0447\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u044c. \u0412\u0437\u0433\u043b\u044f\u0434\u044b. \u0423\u0441\u043b\u043e\u0432\u0456\u044f \u0434\u0463\u044f\u0442\u0435\u043b\u044c\u043d\u043e\u0441\u0442\u0438' (\"The Life Course of Prince Georgy Yevgenievich Lvov. Personality. Views. Conditions of Activity\"). Neither has been translated but both have been reprinted and are still available in Russian.\nNotes.\nNote on transliteration: An older French form, Lvoff, is used on his tombstone. Georgy can be written as Georgi and is sometimes seen in its translated form, George or Jorge."}
{"id": "756447", "revid": "283108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756447", "title": "Andre Lwoff", "text": ""}
{"id": "756448", "revid": "283108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756448", "title": "Andre M. Lwoff", "text": ""}
{"id": "756449", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756449", "title": "Ludwik Zamenhof", "text": ""}
{"id": "756450", "revid": "283108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756450", "title": "Andre Michael Lwoff", "text": ""}
{"id": "756452", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756452", "title": "Alexander Lyapunov", "text": ""}
{"id": "756454", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756454", "title": "Alexander M. Lyapunov", "text": ""}
{"id": "756455", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756455", "title": "Alexander Mikhailovich Lyapunov", "text": ""}
{"id": "756456", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756456", "title": "Sebastian I of Portugal", "text": ""}
{"id": "756459", "revid": "949717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756459", "title": "Richard Lyman", "text": "Richard Lyman may refer to:"}
{"id": "756460", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756460", "title": "Richard W. Lyman", "text": ""}
{"id": "756462", "revid": "48643156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756462", "title": "Francis Greenway", "text": "Francis Greenway (20 November 1777 - September 1837) was an English-Australian convict and colonial architect. After being convicted of forgery in England and subsequently transported to New South Wales, Australia (known then as New Holland) at age 37, Greenway was appointed the colony's official architect by Governor Lachlan Macquarie despite his convict status. Over the next two decades, Greenway designed the General Hospital (commonly known as the Rum Hospital), St James' Church, and the Macquarie Lighthouse. His designs incorporated neoclassical architectural principles and responded to the practical needs of the developing colony.\nLife and career.\nGreenway was born in Mangotsfield, Gloucestershire (near the English city of Bristol), the son of Francis Greenway and Ann Webb. Greenway became an architect in Bristol and Bath. His only remaining building in the United Kingdom is the Clifton Club in Bristol, originally the Clifton Hotel and Assembly Rooms, although only the front facade is his work, due to bankruptcy in 1809. In 1812 he pleaded guilty to forging a financial document, and was sentenced to death; this sentence was later commuted to 14 years' transportation. It is not known why he pleaded guilty, but some believe that this was due to his bankruptcy and the dire circumstances he may have faced. Whilst awaiting deportation to Sydney, Greenway spent time in Newgate Prison, Bristol, where he painted scenes of prison life.\nGreenway arrived in Sydney, New South Wales, on the transport \" General Hewitt\" in February 1814 to serve his sentence. On board the ship was the surgeon Dr John Harris who was to give Greenway his first private commission in the colony which involved extending his residence on his Ultimo estate. Greenway first met Lachlan Macquarie in July 1814, to whom he had come recommended by Admiral Arthur Phillip. During the initial meeting, Macquarie sought to test Greenway by asking him to copy a design of a town hall and courthouse from a pattern book. Greenway responded with a letter asserting his professional qualifications and urging Macquarie to consider a classical design, citing Sir William Chambers. He added that he would \"immediately copy the drawing Your Excellency requested me to do, notwithstanding it is rather painful to my mind as a professional man to copy a building that has no claim to classical proportion and character.\"\nBetween 1816 and 1818, while still a convict, Greenway was responsible for the design and construction of the Macquarie Lighthouse on the South Head 2\u00a0km from the entrance to Port Jackson. After the success of this project, he was emancipated by the governor Lachlan Macquarie on 16 December 1817 at the Lighthouse. In the role of Acting Civil Architect and Assistant Engineer responsible to Captain J. M. Gill, Inspector of Public Works, he went on to build many buildings in the new colony.\nGreenway's works include Hyde Park Barracks, extensions to First Government House, the stables for a projected new Government House (condemned for their 'useless magnificence' by a visiting British official, the building is now home to the Sydney Conservatorium of Music), and St James' Church, Sydney, which was chosen as one of Australia's only two man-made 'treasures' by Dan Cruickshank in the BBC series \"Around the World in 80 Treasures\". He submitted designs for the first Catholic church in Sydney, St Mary's but they did not match the ambitious scale envisaged by the priest Fr Therry, and were not proceeded with.\nGreenway fell into disrepute when Macquarie accused him of charging high fees whilst on a government retainer, and he was dismissed by the next governor, Thomas Brisbane, in 1822. He continued to follow his profession with little success.\nIn 1835 he was destitute, advertising in the \"Sydney Gazette\" that \"Francis Howard Greenway, arising from circumstances of a singular nature is induced again to solicit the patronage of his friends and the public\".\nGreenway died of typhoid near Newcastle, New South Wales in 1837, aged 59. The exact date of his death is not known. He is believed to have been buried in the Glebe burial ground at East Maitland on 25 September 1837, but his grave is unmarked.\nPosthumous tributes.\nGreenway's face was shown on the first Australian decimal-currency $10 note (1966\u201393).\nGreenway is the eponym of a NSW Federal electorate, a suburb of Canberra, and a high school in Woodberry, a suburb of Maitland.\nFrancis Greenway Drive in the suburb of Cherrybrook is named in his honour, as is the Vaucluse home of the Australian architect Leslie Wilkinson (1882\u20131973).\nA Correctional Centre complex near Windsor, NSW is called the Francis Greenway Correctional Complex.\nSelected list of works.\nThe following works were either designed by Greenway or were influenced by Greenway:"}
{"id": "756463", "revid": "43240415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756463", "title": "Richard Wall Lyman", "text": "Richard Wall Lyman (October 18, 1923 \u2013 May 27, 2012) was an American educator, historian, and professor who served as the seventh president of Stanford University from 1970 to 1980. \nBiography.\nAn historian of the British Labour Party, Lyman spent two years at the London School of Economics in 1951 and 1952, researching for his PhD on the first Labour Government. He spent the period 1954-1958 teaching at Washington University in St. Louis. In 1957 his PhD was published as a book, entitled \"The First Labour Government, 1924\". He joined Stanford in 1958.\nHe served as the provost of Stanford between 1967 and 1970. He then served as president of the university from 1970 to 1980. During his tenure as provost and president, he confronted campus dissidents involved in protests against the Vietnam war and other social issues of the 1960s. In the spring of 1969, he called in law enforcement authorities to evict and arrest students who were occupying campus buildings and removing administrative files. In referring to his leadership during his tenure, both of his immediate successors as president of the university have said that \"Dick Lyman saved Stanford.\"\nLyman was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1971.\nIn 1983 he founded the Stanford Institute for International Studies and became its first director. He was the president of the Rockefeller Foundation from 1980 to 1988.\nIn 1998, Lyman was elected to the American Philosophical Society.\nLyman earned his bachelor's degree from Swarthmore College and his master's degree and PhD from Harvard University. He was a Fulbright scholar at the London School of Economics from 1951 to 1952. He came to Stanford in 1958 as a professor in history.\nThe Richard W. Lyman Award was established in 2002 by the National Humanities Center in honor of Lyman. He posthumously won the 2011 Alumni Achievement Award from Hamden Hall Country Day School.\nHe married Jing (1925\u20132013) in 1947 and they have four children. Jing Lyman was herself very active in the university and supported the founding of the Center for Research on Women (now the Clayman Institute for Gender Studies) in 1974. She was a \"leading national figure in initiatives promoting fairer housing, community development and women\u2019s economic empowerment.\" His granddaughter is radio producer Tina Antolini.\nThe Lyman Graduate Residence built in 1997 on the west side of campus is named for Richard Lyman and the Jing Lyman Commons Building within it for his wife.\nHe died in 2012 of heart failure, aged 88."}
{"id": "756464", "revid": "29421082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756464", "title": "Henry I of Portugal", "text": "Henry I of Portugal may refer to:"}
{"id": "756465", "revid": "39374154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756465", "title": "Red currant", "text": "Red currant is a common name for several plants and may refer to:"}
{"id": "756466", "revid": "28903366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756466", "title": "Theodore Lyman IV", "text": "Theodore Lyman IV (; November 23, 1874 \u2013 October 11, 1954) was an American physicist and spectroscopist, born in Boston. He graduated from Harvard in 1897, from which he also received his Ph.D. in 1900.\nCareer.\nLyman became an assistant professor in physics at Harvard, where he remained, becoming full professor in 1917, and where he was also director of the Jefferson Physical Laboratory (1908\u201317). He made important studies in phenomena connected with diffraction gratings, on the wavelengths of vacuum ultraviolet light discovered by Victor Schumann and also on the properties of light of extremely short wavelength, on all of which he contributed valuable papers to the literature of physics in the proceedings of scientific societies.\nMilitary service.\nDuring World War I he served in France with the American Expeditionary Force, holding the rank of major of engineers. \nAffiliations.\nHe became a hereditary member of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States in succession to his father, Lieutenant Colonel Theodore Lyman III."}
{"id": "756467", "revid": "47713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756467", "title": "Booklung", "text": ""}
{"id": "756468", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756468", "title": "Helen Merrell", "text": ""}
{"id": "756469", "revid": "34469046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756469", "title": "Helen Lynd", "text": "Helen Merrell Lynd (March 17, 1896 \u2013 January 30, 1982) was an American sociologist, social philosopher, educator, and author. She is best known for conducting the first Middletown studies of Muncie, Indiana, with her husband, Robert Staughton Lynd; as the coauthor of \"Middletown: A Study in Contemporary American Culture\" (1929) and \"Middletown in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts\" (1937); and a pioneer in the use of social surveys. She was also the author of \"England in the 1880s: Toward a Social Basis for Freedom\" (1945), \"On Shame and the Search for Identity\" (1958), and essays on academic freedom. In addition to writing and research, Lynd was a lecturer at Vassar College, and a professor at Sarah Lawrence College from 1929 to 1964.\nEarly life and education.\nHelen Merrell was born in La Grange, Illinois, on March 17, 1896. Merrill studied philosophy at Wellesley College, graduating with a bachelor's degree in 1919. She began teaching at a New York City boarding school, but left the position after two years to begin graduate studies at Columbia University. Merrell earned a master's degree from Columbia University in the History of Ideas in 1922 and a Ph.D. degree in history and philosophy from Columbia in 1944.\nMarriage and family.\nHelen Merrell met Robert Staughton Lynd while hiking Mount Washington in New Hampshire. They married in 1921. Robert Lynd died on November 1, 1970.\nThe couple had two children, a son, Staughton Lynd, who became a historian and social activist, and a daughter, Andrea Merrell (Lynd) Nold.\nCareer.\nHelen Merrell began her career as an educator in New York City, but after her marriage to Robert Lynd and earning a master's degree from Columbia University, she became a sociologist, author, and college professor.\nFirst Middletown study.\nIn 1924, Helen and Robert Lynd moved to Muncie, Indiana, to begin an eighteen-month study of daily life in this small, Midwestern community. John D. Rockefeller Jr. funded the research as part of the Institute for Social and Religious Research's Small City Study. The Lynds and their three-person staff primarily observed the social lives of the city's inhabitants. The study compared life in Muncie in 1890 to Muncie in 1924, with the goal of measuring the impact of the Industrial Revolution on American life. The Lynds provided details of their observations and analysis of their findings in \"Middletown: A Study in Contemporary American Culture\" (1929), which they coauthored. It was the first sociological study of an American community and became a classic work in the field.\nReviewers praised \"Middletown's\" \"careful research and is scientific character,\" but its popularity was due to the authors' detailed descriptions of American life. However, because of the study's primary focus on Muncie's Protestant, white community, the book also received strong criticism for its failure to include details of other racial and ethnic segments of the community. Despite the negative comments the book received positive reviews in \"The New York Times\" and \"New York Herald Tribune\". The book's success also launched the Lynds' academic careers. Helen and Robert Lynd coauthored \"Middletown in Transition\" (1937), a sequel to their first book on Muncie that became another sociological classic, but plans for a third Middletown book did not develop. Instead, the Lynds turned to other scholarly interests.\nProfessor, author, and essayist.\nHelen Lynd became a lecturer at Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, New York, and from 1929 to 1964, a faculty member at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, New York. She also continued to author books, such as \"England in the 1880s: Toward a Social Basis for Freedom\" (1945) and \"On Shame and the Search for Identity\" (1958), in addition to writing articles on academic freedom.\nThe model of shame that Lynd advocated in her book, \"On Shame and the Search for Identity\" (1958), is loosely Marxian, insisting upon \"the importance of historical context and of transcultural analysis within single social formations\" (particularly Western). Her theory of shame hinges upon the clashing of different social or moral 'values' in specific locations at specific moments, highlighting the trauma experienced by members of communities marginal to dominant culture: those most likely to feel shame are those made to feel 'inappropriate' by dominant cultural norms.\"\nDuring the era of McCarthyism in the late 1940s and early 1950s, Helen and Robert Lynd were the subjects of federal investigations for alleged involvement in the Communist party. Helen Lynd testified before the U.S. Congress in 1953.\nDeath and legacy.\nHelen Lynd died on January 30, 1982, in Warren, Ohio, at the age of eighty-five.\nHelen and Robert Lynd's legacy stems from their Middletown studies and detailed descriptions of small-town life in Muncie, Indiana, the first systematic sociological study of a community in the United States. The Lynds were pioneers in the use of social surveys in their research.\nHelen and Robert Lynd coauthored two books that became classics of American sociology: \"Middletown: A Study in Contemporary American Culture\" (1929) and \"Middletown in Transition\" (1937). Robert B. Downs included \"Middletown\" as one of the twenty-five he listed in \"Books That Changed America\" (1970).\nHelen and Robert Lynds' pioneering work also began an on-going tradition of studying Muncie, Indiana, including the establishment of the Center for Middletown Studies in 1980. (The Center became affiliated with Ball State University in 1984.) Beginning with Frederick Lewis Allen in the 1930s, scholars have followed the Lynds pioneering efforts by producing numerous articles and books. More recent Middletown studies continue to examine modern life in Muncie with the hope that research on this particular Indiana community will provide a \"better understanding of modern American life.\" Later Middletown studies have resulted in the publication of additional books, including \"Middletown Families\" (1982) and \"All Faithful People\" (1983), and films, such as the six-part documentary, \"Middletown\", which aired on PBS in 1982, and \"The First Measured Century\", first broadcast on PBS in 2000."}
{"id": "756470", "revid": "7529026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756470", "title": "Small pox", "text": ""}
{"id": "756472", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756472", "title": "Robert Lynd", "text": "Robert Lynd may refer to:"}
{"id": "756473", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756473", "title": "Robert S. Lynd", "text": ""}
{"id": "756474", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756474", "title": "Robert Staughton Lynd", "text": "Robert Staughton Lynd (September 26, 1892 \u2013 November 1, 1970) was an American sociologist and professor at Columbia University, New York City. He is best known for conducting the first Middletown studies of Muncie, Indiana, with his wife, Helen Lynd; as the coauthor of \"Middletown: A Study in Contemporary American Culture\" (1929) and \"Middletown in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts\" (1937); and a pioneer in the use of social surveys. He was also the author of \"Knowledge for What? The Place of the Social Sciences in American Culture\" (1939). In addition to writing and research, Lynd taught at Columbia from 1931 to 1960. He also served on U.S. government committees and advisory boards, including President Herbert Hoover's Research Committee on Social Trends and President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Consumers' Advisory Board of the National Recovery Administration. Lynd was also a member of several scientific societies.\nEarly life and education.\nRobert Staughton Lynd was born in New Albany, Indiana, on September 26, 1892, \nto Staughton and Cornelia Day Lynd. Robert Lynd received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Princeton University 1914. In the years 1919, 1920, 1921, and 1933 he attended classes at the New School for Social Research. From September 1920 to 1923 Lynd attended the Union Theological Seminary in New York City, where he received a Bachelor of Divinity degree in 1923. Lynd received a Ph.D. in sociology from Columbia University in 1931 using an abridged version of \"Middletown\" as his dissertation.\nMarriage and family.\nRobert Lynd met Helen Merrell while hiking Mount Washington in New Hampshire. They married in 1921. Helen Lynd died on January 30, 1982.\nThe Lynds had two children, a son, Staughton Lynd, who became a lawyer, historian, and social justice activist, and a daughter, Andrea Merrell (Lynd) Nold.\nCareer.\nEarly years.\nIn 1914 Lynd began working as an assistant editor at \"Publishers Weekly\" in New York City, before leaving in 1918 to serve in the U.S. Army Field Artillery during World War I. After the war Lynd was an advertising and publicity manager at Charles Scribner's Sons for about a year, then began work in 1920 as an assistant publisher for B. W. Huebsch, Inc. and joined the staff of the \"Freeman\".\nIn 1921 Lynd was a divinity student at Union Theological Seminary, and for a summer he work as a church missionary in Elk Basin, Wyoming, the site of several oil camps. Afterwards Lynd wrote \"Done in Oil,\" an expos\u00e9 critical of the conditions in the camps. The essay and his community work brought Lynd to the attention of the Rockefeller family. (John D. Rockefeller Jr. tried unsuccessfully to block publication of the essay, but held no grudge against Lynd for writing it.) In 1923 Rockefeller agreed to let the Institute of Social and Religious Research hire Lynd as a director for its Small City Study. Lynd served as the director of the institute's study, which Rockefeller funded, from 1923 to 1926. Lynd's wife, Helen, joined the project that became better known as the Middletown studies as a coinvestigator.\nFirst Middletown study.\nIn 1924 Robert and Helen Lynd moved to Muncie, Indiana, to begin an eighteen-month study of daily life in this Midwestern community. The Lynds and their three-person staff primarily observed the social lives of the city's inhabitants. The study compared life in Muncie in 1890 to Muncie in 1924, with the goal of measuring the effects of the Industrial Revolution on American life. The Lynds coauthored \"Middletown: A Study in Contemporary American Culture\" (1929) describing the details of their research in Muncie. It was the first sociological study of an American community and a classic work in the field.\n\"Middletown\" was an immediate success, receiving positive reviews in \"The New York Times\" and \"New York Herald Tribune\", and launched the academic career of both Robert and Helen Lynd. Reviewers \"praised its careful research and its scientific character,\" but the book's popularity was due to the coauthors' explanations of American life. Not all the reviews were positive. The book was strongly criticized for its failure to include a variety of racial and ethnic experiences. Instead, the Lynds focused on the city's white and predominantly Protestant community.\nResearcher and professor.\nIn 1926 Lynd became assistant director of the Division of Educational Research at the Commonwealth Fund, then joined the Social Science Research Council in 1927 as a research supervisor and assistant to the chairman. He spent another four years, 1928 to 1931, as the council's secretary.\nIn 1931 Lynd accepted a tenure-track position as Professor of Sociology at Columbia University, a position he held until 1960. While teaching at Columbia, Lynd began but never completed sociological studies concerning the impact that the Great Depression had on segments of the population in Manhattan, New York, and in Montclair, New Jersey.\nSecond Middletown study.\nLynd returned to Muncie, Indiana, during the summer of 1935 to make additional observations of the city and to update earlier research. After returning to New York, Robert and Helen Lynd coauthored \"Middletown in Transition\" (1937). The sequel to their earlier work was more theoretical and not as popular among readers as \"Middletown\". The sequel concluded that the community's values and attitudes had not changed much since their earlier research. The tone of the second book was also more critical than the first. Although the Lynds considered a third volume on Middletown, their plans were never realized.\nAfter the publication of two books on the Middletown studies, Lynd resumed his academic career as a social scientist and professor at Columbia University. He also resumed writing, which included \"Knowledge for What? The Place of Social Science in American Culture\" (1939).\nIn addition to teaching at the university, Lynd served on U.S. government committees and advisory boards, including President Herbert Hoover's Research Committee on Social Trends and President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Consumers' Advisory Board of the National Recovery Administration. Lynd became a member of the advisory board's executive committee in 1935. He was also a member of a number of scientific societies in the field of sociological anthropology and economics, such as the AAAS, the American Social Society, American Statistics Society, and American Economics Association.\nPotential Communist affiliations.\nDuring the McCarthy era of the late 1940s and early 1950s, Robert and Helen Lynd were the subjects of U.S. government investigations for alleged involvement in the Communist party. Several individuals who were interviewed in 1942 in connection with Robert Lynd's initial case believed that his political views were \"extremely liberal,\" but they did not believe that he was a party member.\nLater years.\nLynd continued to write in his later years, including two published essays, \"Power in the United States\" (1956), and \"Power in American Society as Resource and Problem\" (1957). He retired from teaching at Columbia University in 1960.\nDeath and legacy.\nLynd died at Warren, Connecticut, on November 1, 1970, at the age of seventy-eight.\nRobert and Helen Lynd are best known for their research and descriptions of small-town life during the groundbreaking \"Middletown studies of Muncie, Indiana, the first systematical, sociological study of a community in the United States. The Lynds were also pioneers in the use of social surveys in their research. Their detailed observations were documented in two books they coauthored, \"Middletown: A Study in Contemporary American Culture\" (1929) and \"Middletown in Transition\" (1937). Both book became classics of American sociology.\nThe Lynds' pioneering sociological work began a legacy of continued studies of Muncie, including the establishment of the Center for Middletown Studies in 1980. (The Center became affiliated with Ball State University in 1984.) Beginning with Frederick Lewis Allen in the 1930s, scholars have followed the Lynds' efforts, producing \"hundreds of books, articles, and films examining life in one small city in Indiana\" with the hope that their studies provide a \"better understanding of modern American life.\" Subsequent Middletown studies resulted in the publication of additional books, most notably \"Middletown Families\" (1982) and \"All Faithful People\" (1983). Other studies were filmed: the six-part documentary, \"Middletown\", that aired on PBS in 1982, and \"The First Measured Century\", first broadcast on PBS in 2000. A seventh part of \"Middletown\", \"Seventeen\" (1982), was judged too controversial to broadcast, as it focused on the world of high school seniors, portraying changing mores, language and sexuality. It was later released on the independent circuit and widely praised.\nLynd's thought.\n\"In Knowledge for What?\", he argues that American culture holds outstanding and contradictory assumptions such as women being both \"the finest of God's creatures\" while also considered inferior to men in term of reasoning power."}
{"id": "756477", "revid": "20957809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756477", "title": "Lembert Dome", "text": "Lembert Dome is a granite dome rock formation in Yosemite National Park in the US state of California. The dome soars above Tuolumne Meadows and the Tuolumne River and can be hiked starting at the Tioga Road in the heart of Tuolumne Meadows, west of the Tioga Pass Entrance to Yosemite National Park. The landform is an example of a r\u00f4che moutonn\u00e9e with clear lee and stoss slopes.\nLembert Dome was named for John Baptist Lembert, sometimes erroneously spelled Lambert, who took up a homestead in a section of Tuolumne Meadows in 1885. The Wheeler Survey referred to it as Soda Springs Dome, and John Muir called it Glacier Rock.\nLembert Dome is near Puppy Dome, and is also close to Dog Dome.\nRock climbers can scale the face from the parking lot just off the Tioga Road, but hikers can simply walk up the back side or take the challenging steeper trek up the face starting from just east of the parking lot. Many technical free climbing routes have been put up."}
{"id": "756479", "revid": "46863187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756479", "title": "British Airline Pilots' Association", "text": "The British Airline Pilots\u2019 Association (BALPA) is the professional association and registered trade union for UK pilots. BALPA represents the views and interests of pilots, campaigning on contractual, legal and health issues affecting its members and the flying public.\nMembership and governance.\nBALPA represents 85% of all commercial pilots in the UK and represents over 10,000 members. These include helicopter winchmen and ground instructors. The association holds the largest collective resource of pilot qualification and experience in the UK.\nBALPA is one of the founder members of the International Federation of Airline Pilots Associations (IFALPA), which co-ordinates the views and opinions of well over 100,000 flight crew around the globe. In Europe, BALPA is a founding member of ECA, the European Cockpit Association. BALPA also works with the Civil Aviation Authority, the Department for Transport, the Department of Trade and Industry and many other bodies where pilots have an interest in being represented.\nBALPA is governed by an Annual Delegate Conference (ADC) made up of representatives of the Company Councils and a National Executive Committee (NEC) composed of elected pilots. As well as generating policy and association strategy, the NEC ensures that the organization is run in an efficient, legal and responsible manner.\nIn December 2023 it was announced that a new General Secretary was appointed following an \"extensive and exhaustive recruitment process\" carried out by executive search firm CJPI, resulting in the first woman to be elected into the role in BALPA's history.\nStructure.\nBALPA has recognition agreements with airlines in multiple sectors. BALPA members in each of these companies elect a Company Council that leads a community of members.\nThere are eleven sub-committees of the NEC; Flight Safety and Security, Accident Analysis and Prevention, Air Traffic Services Study Group, Ops Aviation Medicine Group, Occupational Health and Safety Group, Aircraft Design &amp; Operations/Aircraft Ground Environment, Security Group, Fatigue and Scheduling Group, Helicopter Affairs Committee, Remotely Piloted Aircraft Systems Work Group and Retired Flight Crew Committee.\nMembership.\nTo qualify for Full Membership applicants must hold a current professional pilot licence or flight engineer licence issued by the UK or one of the JAA countries, be engaged in British commercial flying and be based in the UK or employed by a UK Company abroad. Alternatively members may qualify as a ground instructor or helicopter winchman employed in British commercial flying.\nThere are also membership categories available for overseas, retired, military, unemployed and trainee pilots.\nIndustrial Activity.\nBALPA campaigns on a wide variety of issues which affect pilots and the flying public.\nAir Passenger Duty.\nAir Passenger Duty (APD) is the UK Government tax that is charged on all passengers departing from a UK airport. BALPA is an active member of the A Fair Tax on Flying campaign, a coalition of more than 30 leading travel and aviation organisations including airlines, airports, trade associations and destinations who believe that APD is too high and is doing growing damage to jobs, growth and the UK economic recovery.\nCasualisation.\nCasualisation and the use of contract labour is a growing issue in the aviation industry. BALPA has been campaigning on this issue and have had success in formulating a New Entrant Contract that delivers significant improvements to those entering the profession at EasyJet. Driving casualisation out of the whole industry remains one of BALPA's key priorities.\nAs part of its campaign to combat the growing use of contingent workers in the aviation industry, BALPA commissioned the Labour Research Department (LRD) in 2012 to work with the union to produce a booklet focusing on the use of contingent workers in airlines where BALPA is recognised. The booklet highlights the legal framework, in particular the Agency Workers Regulations, which became law in October 2011.\nFlight Time Limitations.\nFlight Time Limitations exist to ensure the safe operation of commercial aircraft and to avoid the onset of pilot fatigue. Pilot fatigue is a state of serious tiredness and exhaustion that reduces a pilots ability to operate safely. 15-20% of fatal accidents related to human errors have listed pilot fatigue as a contributing factor. BALPA has continuously sought to protect high safety standards of Flight Time Limitations in the UK.\nBritish Airways \"Fire and Rehire\" dispute.\nIn summer of 2020, British Airways and its parent company International Airline Group announced a restructuring programme that included up to 12,000 redundancies, including 1,255 pilots. BALPA members eventually accepted a deal that included a temporary 20% pay cut and a reduced number (270) of compulsory redundancies.\nIn popular culture.\nBALPA was featured in the \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\" television episode \"\" in which Eric Idle portrays the BALPA spokesman in the 'Flying Lessons' sketch."}
{"id": "756481", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756481", "title": "Surrealist movement in the United States", "text": ""}
{"id": "756482", "revid": "407753773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756482", "title": "European Communities Act", "text": ""}
{"id": "756483", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756483", "title": "Joseph of Portugal", "text": ""}
{"id": "756484", "revid": "32005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756484", "title": "Roze Zaterdag", "text": ""}
{"id": "756486", "revid": "29626342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756486", "title": "Vajrapani", "text": " (Sanskrit; Pali: Vajirap\u0101\u1e47i, 'holder of the thunderbolt', lit. meaning, \"Vajra in [his] hand\") is one of the earliest-appearing bodhisattvas in Mahayana Buddhism. He is the protector and guide of Gautama Buddha and rose to symbolize the Buddha's power.\nVajrap\u0101ni is also called Chana Dorji and Chador and extensively represented in Buddhist iconography as one of the earliest three protective deities or bodhisattvas surrounding the Buddha. Each of them symbolizes one of the Buddha's virtues: Manjushri manifests all the Buddhas' wisdom, Avalokite\u015bvara manifests all the Buddhas' immense compassion, and Vajrap\u0101ni protects Buddha and manifests all the Buddhas' power as well as the power of all five tath\u0101gatas (Buddhahood of the rank of Buddha).\nVajrap\u0101ni is one of the earliest Dharmapalas of Mahayana Buddhism and also appears as a deity in the Pali Canon of the Theravada school. He is worshiped in the Shaolin Monastery, in Tibetan Buddhism and in Pure Land Buddhism (where he is known as Mahasthamaprapta and forms a triad with Amit\u0101bha and Avalokite\u015bvara). Manifestations of Vajrap\u0101ni can also be found in many Buddhist temples in China, Taiwan and Japan as Dharma protectors guarding monastery and temple gates. Vajrap\u0101ni is also associated with Acala, where he is serenaded as the holder of the vajra.\nEtymology.\nVajrap\u0101ni, \"holder of the thunderbolt\", is a compound word in Sanskrit in which 'Vajra' means \"Diamond or Thunderbolt\", and 'p\u0101ni' literally means \"in hand\".\nForms.\nIn human form Vajrap\u0101ni is depicted holding the vajra in his right hand. He is sometimes referred to as a Dhyani-Bodhisattva, equivalent to Akshobhya, the second Dhyani Buddha. Acharya-Vajrapani is Vajrapani's manifestation as Dharmapala, often seen sporting a third eye, ghanta (bell) and p\u0101\u015ba (lasso). He is sometimes represented as a yidam with one head and four hands in a form known as Nilambara-Vajrapani, carrying a vajra, and treading on personage lying on snakes. Mahacakra-Vajrapani, also a yidam, is depicted with three heads and six arms, carrying a vajra and snakes whilst treading on Brahm\u0101 and Mahe\u015bvara. He is often in union with his consort in yab-yum. Acala-Vajrapani is depicted with four heads, four arms and four legs carrying a sword, a lasso and vajra, treading on demons. Another depiction is in the form with the head, wings, and claws of Garuda.\nVajrap\u0101ni's expression is wrathful, and is often symbolised as a yaksha, to generate \"fear in the individual to loosen up his dogmatism.\" His outstretched right hand brandishes a vajra, \"symbolising analytical knowledge (\"j\u00f1anavajra\") that disintegrates the grasping of consciousness. Although he sometimes wears a skull crown, in most depictions he wears a five-pointed bodhisattva crown to depict the power of the five Dhyani Buddhas (the fully awakened state of the Buddha).\nMantras.\nThe mantra ' is associated with Vajrap\u0101ni. His Seed Syllable is '.\nLegends.\nIn early Buddhist legends, Vajrap\u0101ni is a minor deity who accompanied Gautama Buddha during his career as a wandering mendicant. In some texts, he is stated to be manifestation of \u015aakra, king of the Tr\u0101yastri\u1e43\u015ba heaven of Buddhist and Hindu cosmology. As \u015aakra, it is said that he was present during the birth of Tathagata. As Vajrap\u0101ni he was the god who helped Gautama escape from the palace at the time of his renunciation. When Sakyamuni returned from Kapilavastu he is stated to have assumed eight forms of devas who escorted him.\nAccording to Xuanzang, the Chinese monk and traveler, Vajrap\u0101ni vanquished a large serpent at Udyana. In another version it is stated that while the N\u0101gas came to worship the Buddha and hear his sermons, Vajrap\u0101ni assumed the form of a bird to deceive them so that they were not attacked by their deadly enemies, the Garudas.\nAt the parinirvana of the Buddha, Vajrap\u0101ni dropped his vajra in despair and rolled himself in the dust.\nMeaning.\nVajrap\u0101ni is seen as a manifestation of Vajradhara and the \"spiritual reflex\", the Dhyani Bodhisattva of Akshobhya. On the popular level, Vajrap\u0101ni is the bodhisattva who represents the power of all the buddhas just as Avalokite\u015bvara represents their great compassion, and Ma\u00f1ju\u015br\u012b their wisdom. He is called the Master of Unfathomable Mysteries who upholds truth even in adversities of darkness and ignorance.\nAccording to the \"Pa\u00f1cavi\u1e43satis\u0101hasrik\u0101-\" and \"A\u1e63\u1e6das\u0101hasrik\u0101praj\u00f1\u0101p\u0101ramit\u0101\"s, any bodhisattva on the path to buddhahood is eligible for Vajrap\u0101ni's protection, making them invincible to any attacks \"by either men or ghosts\".\nFeatures and identifications.\nIdentification with Heracles.\nAs Buddhism expanded in Central Asia and fused with Hellenistic influences into Greco-Buddhism, the Greek hero Heracles was adopted to represent Vajrap\u0101ni. In that era, he was typically depicted as a hairy, muscular athlete, wielding a short \"diamond\" club. Buddhaghosa associated Vajrap\u0101ni with the \"deva\" king Indra. Some authors believe that the deity depicted is actually Zeus, whose Classical attribute is the thunderbolt. The image of Vajrapani as a wrestler-like figure would eventually influence the statues of guardian deities in East Asia.\nIn India.\nDuring the Kushan Empire, Gandhara art depicted Vajrapani's images in which he is shown primarily as a protector of Sakyamuni and not in the role of a bodhisattva. In the \"Indrasalaguha\" scenes, mountains form a part of his environment where his presence during the conversion of the naga Apalala is shown. In these depictions, he is shown wearing exclusive Western attire and always in the presence of other deities. The reliefs in this art form depict Vajrapani always present in the scenes where Buddha is converting people; his presence is shown when the Buddha confronts the opponents of the dharma like Mara before his enlightenment. Scenes of Sakyamuni competing with the heretics are also part of this art tradition. Scenes of Buddha using the vajra of Vajrapani as the \"magic weapon\" to perform miracles and propagate \"superiority of his doctrine\" are also common.\nIn the western group of caves of the Ajanta Caves in Aurangabad, Vajrapani is depicted as a bodhisattva with his vajra in a tableau, a votive panel of sculptural composition in which he in a standing posture (the only extant figure) over a lotus to the left of a Buddha in a \"dhyanasana\". In this panel he is adorned with a tall crown, two necklaces, a snake armlet and holds the vajra in his left hand, and resting on a scarf tied across his hips. This close iconographic composition is at the entrance to the porch of cave 2 and in the incomplete porch of cave 1. Such votive carved panels with Vajrapani are also seen in the interior of the \"parikrama\" passage of cave 2, in which he is paired with other bodhisattvas like Avalokite\u015bvara. In this panel he has a crown in the form of a stupa with a scarf fastened over his left thigh.\nIn the eastern group of caves, at the entry to cave 6, Vajrapani is carved as a commanding persona in the form of a huge dvarapala, along with Avalokite\u015bvara. Here, he is flanked by a small attendant. He carries the *vajra*, a luminous weapon in his left hand, which rests on a scarf tied across his hip. His right arm is bent forward, and possibly once held a lotus, similar to Avalokite\u015bvara. Both figures at the entrance of cave 6 are depicted wearing crowns (\"maku\u1e6da\").\nIn China.\nIn China, Vajrap\u0101ni, known as the \"vajra-holding god\" (\u57f7\u91d1\u525b\u795e \"Zh\u00edj\u012bng\u0101ng sh\u00e9n\"), is widely venerated in his dual manifestation as the \"vajra warriors\" (\u91d1\u525b\u529b\u58eb \"J\u012bng\u0101ng L\u00ecsh\u00ec\") or \"Benevolent Kings\" (\u4ec1\u738b \"R\u00e9nw\u00e1ng\"), two muscular guardian deities that usually stand at each side of the shanmen in Buddhist temples and monasteries. The statue on the right side is traditionally named \"Guhyap\u0101da\" (\u5bc6\u8de1\u91d1\u525b \"M\u00ecj\u012b j\u012bng\u0101ng\"), while the one on the left is traditionally named \"N\u0101r\u0101ya\u1e47a\" (\u90a3\u7f85\u5ef6\u5929 N\u00e0lu\u00f3y\u00e1n ti\u0101n), both of whom are dharmapalas in the Chinese Buddhist canon. In Chinese folk religion, they are also known as \"Generals Heng and Ha\" (\u54fc\u54c8\u4e8c\u5c07 \"H\u0113ngh\u0101 \u00e8rji\u00e0ng\"), so named because the right statue usually has its mouth open to pronounce the sound \"a\", while the other usually has it closed to utter the sound \"heng\". The two sounds are the start and end sounds in Sanskrit, symbolizing the basis of sounds and bearing the profound theory of Dharma. Guhyap\u0101da, in particular, is also considered one of the Twenty Devas or Twenty-Four Devas in the Chinese Buddhist pantheon. In the Shaolin tradition, Vajrap\u0101ni is venerated as an avatar of Guanyin (Avalokite\u015bvara) who manifested to protect the monastery during the Yuan dynasty.\nIn Japan.\nIn Japan, Vajrap\u0101ni is called , the \"on'yomi\" reading of his Chinese name. As in China, his image was the inspiration for the , the wrath-filled and muscular guardian of the Buddha, found at the entrance of many Buddhist temples.\nVajrap\u0101ni is also associated with ; the mantra for Fud\u014d-my\u014d\u014d references him as the powerful wielder of the vajra. Though he is not a very popular form of statue worship in Japan, he is frequently depicted in diagrams (mandala). The sixth formation of the Womb Realm Mandala is called the \"Vajrapani enclosure\", in which he is depicted in 20 different forms, with Vajrasattva as the presiding deity. In Japanese iconography he is depicted in red colour at the death of Buddha.\nIn Indonesia.\nIn Indonesia, Vajrapani is depicted as a part of triad with Vairocana and Padmapani. A famous 3 metres tall stone statues of Vairocana, Padmapani, and Vajrap\u0101ni triad can be found in central chamber of Mendut temple, located around 3 kilometres east from Borobudur, Central Java. Both seated Padmapani and Vajrapani, regarded as the guardian of Buddha Vairocana, are depicted as a handsome well-built men with serene expression adorned with exquisite crown and jewelries. The statues are the fine example of the 9th century Central Javanese Sailendran art, which influenced the Buddhist art in Southeast Asia, including Srivijayan art of Sumatra and Malay Peninsula (Southern Thailand).\nIn Cambodia.\nIn Cambodia, three monasteries dated to 953 AD are dedicated to the worship of the triad of the Buddha\u2014Prajnaparamita and Vajrapani; image of Vajrapani with four arms is venerated in one of these monasteries. Also, in niches are standing images of Vajrapani carved with four or two arms on each of the four faces of monoliths found in Western Cambodia.\nIn Nepal.\nIn Nepal, Vajrapani is depicted holding a vajra supported on a lotus with its stem held in the right hand while the left hand is shown in a posture of \"charity and argument\". His paintings are in white colour.\nIn Tibet.\nIn Tibet, Vajrapani is represented in many fierce forms. Some of the notable ones are: Vajrapani-Acharya (Dharmapala) in a human form with only one head with a third eye with hair raised and crowned by a skull with fiery expression. His neck is adorned with a necklace of snakes, and with waist band made of tiger skin covered with skulls. Stepping to the right, his lifted hand holds a vajra. When painted in blue colour the image is encircled by flames with images of small Garudas; Nilambara-Vajrapani with one head, with a third eye, a crown made of skull with four or six arms and in some cases with untidy hair bedecked with vajra and snake. Two hands are crossed to the breast in mystic posture (mudra), the second right hand is lifted up and carries a vajra. Stepping to the right, regally crowned and lying over a bed of snakes; in \"Achala-Vajrapani\" form he is shown with four heads, four arms and four legs adorned with symbols of vajra, sword, lasso and skull cup (kapala) and trampling over demons; Mahachakra-Vajrapani is a form with three heads and a third eye, and with six arms and two legs. The icon is adorned with symbols of vajra, snake with \"yum\" held in its main hands, and as shakti it to his left is shown holding a skull-cup (kapala) and \"grigug\" (chopper or hooked knife). The icon is shown stepping over Brahma on the right and on Shiva to the left; in the Thunderbolt-Wielder form known as \"snake charm form\" to protect from snake bites, he is depicted sitting on a lotus throne carried by peacocks. The right hand posture holds one end of rope noose to capture snake demons while the left hand held over the hips carries the other end of the noose. He is followed by two bodhisattvas\u2014\"Sarvanivarana-Vishkambhin, Effacer of Stains, and Samantabhadra, the Entirely Virtuous One\". His adornments consist of a tall crown and snakes coiling his arms and ankles. In a painted form, usually in white colour \"crossed-vajra\" is held to the left raised above the accompanying Bodhisattvas but when painted in blue colour the left hand holds a double vajra; his Garuda form is with wings and claws or with human head with a beak or head with wings fully spread (his painted form is in blue colour). he may be trampling over a demon or dead naga (snake). In some images he is shown carrying a sword, a bottle in the shape of a gourd, a chopper or hands held in a prayer mode.\nIn Vietnam.\nIn Vietnamese Buddhism, Vajrapani is considered the Dharma and is said to have eight Vajrapani, called B\u00e1t b\u1ed9 kim c\u01b0\u01a1ng. S\u00f9ng Thi\u1ec7n Di\u00ean Linh stele (built 1122) in Long \u0110\u1ecdi Temple from the L\u00fd dynasty mentioned eight. These eight Dharma protectors are often arranged in Vietnamese Buddhist temples as to protect the Dharma, followers and Buddhist worship facilities. The eight Dharma protectors have their own names:\nAlthough they are eight, all eight are gathered into a unified group, divided into two rows, four in each row, not separated to worship.\nIn literature and art.\nVajrapani holds a prominent position in the Buddhist canon and is identified as a yaksha leader who has become a full-scale bodhisattva. This, reflected through the Mahayana sutras has become an \"emblem of esoteric knowledge and the revealer of Buddhist Tantra\". As a yaksha, he maintains a special relationship with mountains and caves. \nAccording to Buddhist scholar E. Lamotte, Vajrapani was the chief of the \"Guhayakas\" (\"genies des cavernes\"), who played an important role in Esoteric Buddhist and Brahmanical literature of India. Lamotte based his assessment on many textual passages which explained Vajrapani's use of his magic vajra to shake mountains. \nThe \"M\u016blasarv\u0101stiv\u0101da vinaya\" includes a narrative about how Vajrapani used his strength to destroy the boulder Devadatta used in his attempt to murder the Buddha. In the \"Sarvastivada vinaya vibhasha\", Vajrapani protects the pradakshina path with his magic weapon. This association correlates with the presence of large images of Vajrapani in Cave 6 at Aurangabad, located at both the entrance and exit of the circumambulation passage.\nStories.\nConversion of Ambattha.\nThe P\u0101li Canon's \"Ambattha Sutta\", which challenges the rigid nature of caste system, tells of one instance of him appearing as a sign of the Buddha's power. \nAt the behest of his teacher, a young Brahmin named Ambattha visited the Buddha. Knowing the Buddha's family to be the Shakya clan, who are caste, Ambattha failed to show him the respect he would a fellow Brahmin. When the Buddha questioned his lack of respect, Ambattha replied it was because the Buddha belongs to a \"menial\" caste. The Buddha then asked the Brahmin if his family was descended from a \u201cShakya slave girl\u201d. Knowing this to be true, Ambattha refused to answer the question. \nUpon refusing to answer the question for a second time, the Buddha warned him that his head would be smashed to bits if he failed to do so a third time. Ambattha was frightened when he saw Vajrap\u0101ni manifest above the Buddha's head ready to split the Brahmin's head in seven pieces with his thunderbolt. He quickly confirmed the truth and a lesson on caste ensues.\nVajrap\u0101ni and Mahe\u015bvara.\nA popular story tells how Vajrap\u0101ni kills Mahe\u015bvara, a manifestation of Shiva depicted as an evil being. The story occurs in several scriptures, most notably the \"Sarvatath\u0101gatatattvasa\u1e45graha\" and the \"Vajr\u0101pany\u0101bhi\u1e63eka Mah\u0101tantra\". The story begins with the transformation of the bodhisattva Samantabhadra into Vajrap\u0101ni by Vairocana, the cosmic Buddha, receiving a vajra and the name \"Vajr\u0101pani\". Vairocana then requests Vajrap\u0101ni to generate his adamantine family in order to establish a mandala. Vajrap\u0101ni refuses because Mahe\u015bvara \"is deluding beings with his deceitful religious doctrines and engaging in all kinds of violent criminal conduct\". Mahe\u015bvara and his entourage are dragged to Mount Meru, and all but Mahe\u015bvara submit. Vajrap\u0101ni and Mahe\u015bvara engage in a magical combat, which is won by Vajrap\u0101ni. Mahe\u015bvara's retinue become part of Vairocana's mandala, except for Mahe\u015bvara, who is killed, and his life transferred to another realm where he becomes a Buddha named \"Bhasme\u015bvaranirgho\u1e63a\", the \"Soundless Lord of Ashes\".\nAccording to Kalupahana, the story \"echoes\" the story of the conversion of Ambattha. It is to be understood in the context of the historical competition between Buddhist institutions and Shaivism.in south Asia and southeast Asia.\nPatron saint of Shaolin monastery.\nIn his book \"The Shaolin Monastery\" (2008), Prof. Meir Shahar notes Vajrap\u0101ni is the patron saint of the Shaolin Monastery. A short story appearing in Zhang Zhuo's (660\u2013741) Tang anthology shows how the deity had been venerated in the Monastery from at least the eighth century. It is an anecdotal story of how the Shaolin monk Sengchou (480-560) gained supernatural strength and fighting ability by praying to the Vajrap\u0101ni and being force-fed raw meat. Shaolin abbot Zuduan (1115\u20131167) erected a stele in his honor during the Song dynasty. It reads:\nInstead of being considered a stand-alone deity, Shaolin believes Vajrap\u0101ni to be an emanation of the Bodhisattva Guanyin. The Chinese scholar A'De noted this was because the \"Lotus Sutra\" says Guanyin takes on the visage of whatever being that would best help pervade the dharma. The exact \"Lotus Sutra\" passage reads: \"To those who can be conveyed to deliverance by the body of the spirit who grasps the \"vajra\" (Vajrap\u0101ni) he preaches Dharma by displaying the body of the spirit who grasps the \"vajra\".\"\nHe was historically worshiped as the progenitor of their famous staff method by the monks themselves. A stele erected by Shaolin abbot Wenzai in 1517 shows the deity's vajra-club had by then been changed to a \"gun\" staff, which originally \"served as the emblem of the monk\". Vajrap\u0101ni's yaksha-like Narayana form was eventually equated with one of the four staff-wielding \"Kinnara Kings\" from the \"Lotus Sutra\" in 1575. His name was thus changed from Narayana to \"Kinnara King\". One of the many versions of a certain tale regarding his creation of the staff method takes place during the Yuan-era Red Turban Rebellion. Bandits lay siege to the monastery, but it is saved by a lowly kitchen worker wielding a long fire poker as a makeshift staff. He leaps into the oven and emerges as a monstrous giant big enough to stand astride both Mount Song and the imperial fort atop Mount Shaoshi (which are five miles apart). The bandits flee when they behold this staff-wielding titan. The Shaolin monks later realize that the kitchen worker was none other than the Kinnara King in disguise. Shahar notes the part of the kitchen worker might have been based on the actual life of the monk Huineng (638\u2013713). In addition, he suggests the mythical elements of the tale were based on the fictional adventures of Sun Wukong from the Chinese epic \"Journey to the West\". He compares the worker's transformation in the stove with Sun's time in Laozi's crucible, their use of the staff, and the fact that Sun and his weapon can both grow to gigantic proportions.\nStatues and paintings of kinnaras were commissioned in various halls throughout Shaolin in honor of his defeat of the Red Turban army. A wicker statue woven by the monks and featured in the center of the \"Kinnara Hall\" was mentioned in Cheng Zongyou's seventeenth century training manual \"Shaolin Staff Method\". However, a century later, it was claimed that the Kinnara King had himself woven the statue. It was destroyed when the monastery was set aflame by the Kuomintang General Shi Yousan in 1928. A \"rejuvenated religious cult\" arose around kinnaras in the late twentieth century. Shaolin re-erected the shrine to him in 1984 and improved it in 2004."}
{"id": "756488", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756488", "title": "Philip Game", "text": "Sir Philip Woolcott Game (30 March 1876 \u2013 4 February 1961) was a Royal Air Force commander, who later served as Governor of New South Wales and Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis (London). Born in Surrey in 1876, Game was educated at Charterhouse School and entered the military at Royal Military Academy Woolwich, gaining his commission in 1895. Serving with the Royal Artillery, Game saw action in the Second Boer War and the First World War. After serving with distinction and bravery, Game transferred to the Royal Flying Corps in early 1916 serving as General Trenchard's chief staff officer. Finishing the War as an acting major-general, Game remained in the Royal Air Force after the close of hostilities. Notably he served as Air Officer Commanding RAF India and Air Member for Personnel. He retired from the military in 1929, having reached the rank of air vice-marshal.\nIn March 1930, Game was appointed Governor of New South Wales, serving during a time of political instability and coming into conflict with the NSW Labor government over attempts to abolish the New South Wales Legislative Council. Game dismissed the Government of Premier Jack Lang in May 1932, forcing the 1932 election. Ending his term in January 1935, Game returned to Britain and was appointed Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police in London. He held it during the tumultuous 1930s, the 1936 abdication crisis and the Second World War, before retiring at the end of the war in Europe in 1945. Between 1937 and 1949 he resided at Langham House, Ham Common, Surrey and was Vicar's Warden at St. Andrews church. Retiring with his wife Gwendoline to his home in Kent, Game died in February 1961, aged 84.\nEarly life and career.\nGame was born in Streatham, Surrey, on 30 March 1876 to George Beale Game, a merchant from Broadway, Worcestershire, and his wife Clara Vincent. Before entering the army, he was educated at Charterhouse School. Following officer training at the Royal Military Academy Woolwich, Game was commissioned as a second lieutenant on 2 November 1895 into the Royal Artillery. Promoted to lieutenant on 2 November 1898 and further promoted to captain on 3 June 1901, he served in the Second Boer War and was mentioned in dispatches (including the final despatch by Lord Kitchener dated 23 June 1902). As a young artillery captain he was made officer in charge of the gun carriage bearing the coffin of Queen Victoria at her funeral in February 1901. In July 1902, he was appointed divisional adjutant of the IX division Royal Field Artillery, stationed at Middelburg, Cape Colony. Following brief postings in India and Ireland, Game attended the Staff College, Camberley in 1910 and was posted as a General Service Officer (GSO) at the War Office. He later won the Royal United Services Institute Gold Medal Essay. On 11 August 1908 he married Gwendolen Margaret Hughes-Gibb (1882\u20131972), the daughter of Francis Hughes-Gibb of Dorset, and was promoted as a major on 15 February 1912.\nFollowing the outbreak of the First World War in 1914, Game served on the front in France, including at the Battle of Neuve Chapelle. In the war he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order, the Legion of Honour and the Order of the Crown of Italy and was five times Mentioned in Despatches. In early 1916 Game transferred to the Royal Flying Corps as a result of Hugh Trenchard's request for an experienced staff officer to serve in his headquarters. Game transferred to the Royal Air Force on its creation in 1918. At the end of the war, Game continued to work under Trenchard, but as Director of Training and Organisation in the RAF. In 1922 he was promoted to the rank of air vice-marshal and appointed Air Officer Commanding RAF India. The next year he took up the post of Air Member for Personnel and was appointed as a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath (KCB) a year later. Game retired suddenly on 1 January 1929, at the age of 52, allegedly owing to the rumours of his being appointed Chief of the Air Staff. On 1 March 1929 he was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire in the military division (GBE).\nGovernor of New South Wales.\nAt the height of the Great Depression, Game was appointed Governor of New South Wales in March 1930. He arrived in Sydney with his family aboard the P&amp;O liner, RMS \"Moldavia\" on 29 May 1930. On 30 June 1930, Game was appointed by King George V as a Knight of Grace of the Venerable Order of St John (KStJ). At the October 1930 State elections the Bavin Nationalist Government was defeated and the Labor Party leader, Jack Lang, became Premier.\nLegislative Council abolition.\nLang's previous term of office from 1925 to 1927 had brought him into conflict with Game's predecessor, Sir Dudley de Chair, over the proposed appointment of additional members to the Legislative Council, in order to enable the abolition of the house, using the same techniques used to abolish the Queensland Legislative Council in 1922. His inability to gain control in the Upper House obstructed Lang's legislative programme and in November 1930, claiming a mandate to abolish the council, Lang's Labor MLCs put forward two bills, one to repeal section 7A of the NSW Constitution (which prevented the abolition of the Council without a referendum), the other to abolish the council. Lang requested the necessary additional appointments to pass the legislation from Game. However, these requests were met with Game's refusal.\nBelieving that a referendum was necessary before the bills could become law, the Legislative Council permitted the bills to pass without a division on 10 December. Lang then announced his intention of presenting the bills for Game's Royal assent without a referendum. The following day, two members of the Legislative Council, Thomas Playfair and Arthur Trethowan, applied for and were granted an injunction preventing the president of the council, Sir John Peden, and the ministers from presenting the bills to the Governor without having held a referendum. On 23 December the Supreme Court of New South Wales in the case of \"Trethowan v Peden\", upheld the injunction and ordered the government not to present for royal assent, unless ratified by the electors in a referendum, bills to abolish the council. Lang immediately prepared an appeal to the High Court of Australia. In the case of \"Attorney-General (New South Wales) v Trethowan\", the appeal was rejected by a majority(3-2) of the court. Lang then appealed this decision to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in London. On 31 May 1932 the Privy Council dismissed the government's appeal.\nReflecting his status as a representative of the British Government, Game at all times informed the Dominions Office of political developments. In hard financial times, NSW soon came into conflict with the federal government as Lang's unorthodox financial policy opposed the economic orthodoxy advocated by Sir Otto Niemeyer, who was the main financial advisor to the Federal Scullin Labor government and later the Lyons United Australia Party Government. In July 1931, in a personal contribution towards economic recovery, Game notified Treasury to make a 25% deduction from his own monthly salary.\nLang's Government soon introduced legislation to cope with the economic problems the state was facing. Its first move was the Reduction of Interest Bill, which was intended to default on payments of overseas debts to British bondholders in an attempt to negotiate the interest rate. The Legislative Council prevented passage on 26 March 1931 by resolving that the bill be read again in six months time. Lang again asked for additional members to force his legislation through. Game, aware of the weight of opinion in the MacDonald Government in London, the Scullin government in Canberra, and Sydney against the Lang administration's financial policies, refused. On 28 March the Federal Labor Party expelled the New South Wales Labor Party for its opposition to the financial policy of the Federal government. Despite various petitions and demands that he dismiss Lang, Game declined to act. Game later informed the Dominions Secretary, James Henry Thomas, on 29 March 1931 that he was not convinced that Lang would lose an election at this time.\nIn March and June 1931 Lang repeatedly requested the necessary 80 appointments to swamp the council and prevent obstruction to his legislation. Game again refused, offering 21 appointments, which were enough to pass some of the legislation but not the most controversial bills, including the bill to default on debts. Finally, in a compromise move with Lang, on 19 November 1931 Game assented to 25 appointments, reasoning that it would not be possible to refuse Lang's requests until the Privy Council case was resolved. His telegram to the Dominions Secretary the next day explained further: \"I foresee if I refuse now I shall most probably be placed in position before long where...I should not be able to stop at twenty five but should have sooner or later to give sufficient appointments to carry rejected legislation. Such numbers might give Government a permanent majority to carry any and every extreme measure, and extreme factions would probably gain ascendancy owing to what they would represent as my obstinate partiality. Should I refuse appointments until appeal case is heard and should it result in abolition extremists would be in an even stronger position. After reviewing all arguments and considering possibilities I have reached conclusion that my proper and wiser course is to accept advice and have done so.\"\nDuring this Game questioned the result if Lang won the appeal to the Privy Council and the Legislative Council was abolished. Various correspondence between him and London confirms that had Lang succeeded, Game may have refused assent to the abolition bills, thereby making it the first time it had been withheld since 1708. This potential situation disappeared, however, with the judgment of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council on 31 May 1932. The judgment dismissed the appeal by the Government of New South Wales. The bills repealing Section 7A and abolishing the Legislative Council could not therefore be presented to the Governor for assent until they had been passed in a referendum. Faced with other problems, Lang's plans for abolition ultimately failed. His successor as Premier, Bertram Stevens, later passed major reforms to replace the appointed Legislative Council, by a Council elected by the whole parliament to terms equivalent to four Assembly terms. This was passed by referendum in 1933.\nHarbour Bridge opening.\nIn March 1932, in anticipation of the opening of the Sydney Harbour Bridge, when Lang decided that he would cut the ribbon and incurred the displeasure of the King, Game reassured the King that Lang had the right to cut the ribbon. Game and his family found much amusement in the controversy thrown up over the matter and the question of whether Game, as governor, should have a 17-gun salute. The far-right New Guard were nevertheless enraged over Lang's decision, culminating in Francis de Groot's cutting of the ribbon just before the scheduled official opening on 19 March 1932. The ribbon was hastily reattached and Lang opened the bridge with Game looking on, and he later gave a speech commemorating the occasion.\nDismissal.\nWhen the United Australia Party Government of Joseph Lyons came to power in January 1932, it passed the \"Financial Agreement Enforcement Act\", thereby forcing the NSW government to adhere to its debt commitments and to cut government spending.\nLang appealed the decision to the High Court. When the court ruled that the law was valid, Lang ordered Treasury officials to withdraw all the state's funds from government bank accounts so that the federal government could not gain access to the money. Game advised Lang that in his view this action was illegal. Game added that if Lang did not reverse it, he would dismiss the government in order to obtain ministers who would act lawfully. Lang stood firm, and issued a leaflet in defiance of Game. On 13 May, Game reluctantly decided to exercise his reserve powers and called Lang to Government House to sack him. However, Lang was not the first to hear of his impending dismissal. The pianist Isador Goodman, who had been befriended by Sir Philip and Lady Game, was at Government House for dinner that night. There were a number of interruptions, and Goodman asked if he perhaps ought to leave. Game replied, \"No, that's not necessary. You see, I am about to dismiss the Premier.\"\nGame appointed the Leader of the Opposition, Bertram Stevens of the UAP, as caretaker Premier. Stevens formed a coalition with Michael Bruxner's Country Party and immediately called an election, at which Lang's NSW Labor Party was heavily defeated. This was the first case of an Australian government with the confidence of the lower house of Parliament being dismissed by a vice-regal representative, the second case being when Governor-General Sir John Kerr dismissed Gough Whitlam's government on 11 November 1975. Game himself felt his decision was the right one, despite his personal liking of Lang. He wrote to his mother-in-law on 2 July 1932: \"Still with all his faults of omission and commission I had and still have a personal liking for Lang and a great deal of sympathy for his ideals and I did not at all relish being forced to dismiss him. But I felt faced with the alternative of doing so or reducing the job of Governor all over the Empire to a farce.\" Lang himself, despite objecting to his dismissal, conceded that he too liked Game, regarding him as fair and polite, and having had good relations with him.\nEnd of term.\nDuring his governorship Game was the patron of several organisations including the District and Bush Nursing Associations and the Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales, and was Chief Scout of the NSW Boy Scouts Association. Lady Game was President of the District and Bush Nursing Associations and the Girl Guides Association. The rest of his term was fairly uneventful, and he returned to Britain following the expiration of his term on 15 January 1935. Before he left Sydney he was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG), on the recommendation of Premier Stevens, for his service as governor. In honour of their service to the state, in 1933 Ku-ring-gai Municipal Council named a major road in Lindfield as Lady Game Drive, and a nearby park as Sir Phillip Game Reserve. In memory of Game's time as governor, a portrait was commissioned by public subscription and painted by R.G. Eves. It was then displayed at the National Art Gallery of New South Wales before being presented to Government House.\nMetropolitan Police Commissioner.\nUpon his return to Britain, Game served as Metropolitan Police Commissioner from November 1935 until 1945, the last senior armed forces officer to be appointed to that post (with the exception of his immediate successor, a senior civil servant, all successive commissioners have been career police officers). Not long after his appointment Game was responsible for policing the funeral of King George V and the 1937 Coronation of George VI and Elizabeth. For his work in the 1937 coronation, Game was appointed by King George VI a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO) on 11 May 1937. His time in the post also saw the experimental introduction of patrol dogs at Peckham in 1938.\nServing as Commissioner during very tumultuous times, Game had to deal with Fascist and Communist demonstrations, a bombing campaign waged by the Irish Republican Army and, during the Second World War, the organisation of the police role in air-raid precautions and relief. He dealt effectively with those problems and the consequent improvement in police morale was an important factor in the survival of London during the concentrated German air attack of 1940\u201341. In 1943, in an attempt to prevent burglaries, Game urged householders not to keep furs, adapting a verse from Chapter 9 of Ecclesiastes saying, \"they are no doubt warmer, and look nicer than a tweed coat, but a live dog is better than a dead lion.\"\nTowards the end of his time as Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Game worked to establish a boys' club. The Sir Philip Game Boys' Club, situated in Croydon, was opened in 1946. The club was officially opened on 19 July 1947 in Game's presence by the then Home Secretary, James Chuter Ede. On 2 May 1945 Game was appointed a Knight Grand Cross (GCB) in the Civil Division of the Order of the Bath (he was already a Knight Commander in the Military Division of the same Order); and he retired soon after on 1 June 1945.\nHe died at his home, Blakenhall, Sevenoaks, Kent, on 4 February 1961, survived by his wife, daughter, and by his elder son, Philip Malcolm Game, who in 1939 had married Vera Blackburn, an Australian artist and the daughter of Sir Charles Blackburn. His second son David, a lieutenant of the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve, had been killed in 1943 at age 29, while on active service at Taranto, Italy. His daughter Rosemary recalled her childhood and her father's work in her 1989 memoir, \"Growing Up at Government House\". New premises for the Boys' Club named after him were completed in 1964 and officially opened on 8 May 1966 by the then Home Secretary, Sir Frank Soskice, in the presence of Game's widow, who unveiled a plaque in memory of her husband."}
{"id": "756490", "revid": "29463730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756490", "title": "Frederick Oakeley", "text": "Frederick Oakeley (5 September 1802 \u2013 30 January 1880) was an English Roman Catholic convert, priest, and author. He was ordained in the Church of England in 1828 and in 1845 converted to the Church of Rome, becoming Canon of the Westminster Diocese in 1852. \nHe is best known for his translation of the Christmas carol \"Adeste Fideles\" (\"O Come, All Ye Faithful\") from Latin into English.\nEarly life.\nThe youngest child of Sir Charles Oakeley, 1st Baronet, he was born on 5 September 1802 at the Abbey House, Shrewsbury. In 1810 his family moved to the bishop's palace at Lichfield. Poor health prevented his leaving home for school, but in his fifteenth year he was sent to Charles Sumner for tuition. In June 1820 he matriculated at Christ Church, Oxford; he gained a second class in \"Literae humaniores\" in 1824. After graduating B.A. he won the Chancellor's Latin and English prize essays in 1825 and 1827 respectively, and the Ellerton theological prize, also in 1827.\nIn 1827 he was ordained, and was elected to a chaplain fellowship at Balliol College. In 1830 he became tutor and catechetical lecturer at Balliol, and a prebendary of Lichfield on Bishop Henry Ryder's appointment. In 1831 he was select preacher, and in 1835 one of the public examiners to the university. The Bishop of London, Charles Blomfield; appointed him Whitehall preacher in 1837, when he resigned his tutorship at Balliol, but he retained his fellowship.\nTractarian.\nDuring his residence at Balliol as chaplain-fellow (from 1827) Oakeley became connected with the tractarian movement. Partly under the influence of William George Ward, he had grown dissatisfied with evangelicalism, and in the preface to his first volume of \"Whitehall Sermons\" (1837) he avowed himself a member of the new Oxford school. In 1839 he became incumbent of Margaret Chapel, the predecessor of All Saints, Margaret Street, and Oxford ceased to be his home.\nDuring the six years that Oakeley passed as minister of Margaret Chapel (1839\u201345), he became, according to a friend's description, the \"introducer of that form of worship which is now called ritualism\". He was supported by prominent men, among the friends of Margaret Chapel being Mr. Serjeant Bellasis, Mr Beresford Hope, and William Gladstone. According to an account by Mr. Wakeling the innovations of Oakeley's time were limited to the proper furnishing of the altar, a good standard of preaching but little more in the way of ritual.\nThe year 1845 was a turning-point in Oakeley's life. As a fellow of Balliol he had joined in the election to a fellowship there of his lifelong friend and former pupil Archibald Campbell Tait, the future primate; but Tait had signed, with three others, the first protest against \"Tract XC\". The furore over this last Tract led Oakeley, like Ward, to despair of his church and university; and in two pamphlets, published separately at the time both in London and Oxford, he asserted that he held, \"as distinct from teaching, all Roman doctrine\". For this avowal he was cited before the court of arches by the Bishop of London. His license was withdrawn, and he was suspended from all clerical duty in the province of Canterbury until he had \"retracted his errors\" (July 1845).\nCatholic.\nIn September 1845 Oakeley joined John Henry Newman's community at Littlemore in Oxford, and on 29 October was received into the Roman communion in the little chapel in St Clement's, Oxford, over Magdalen Bridge. On 31 October he was confirmed at Birmingham by Nicholas Wiseman. From January 1846 to August 1848 he was a theological student in the seminary of the London district, St Edmund's College, Ware. In the summer of 1848 he joined the staff of the newly-built St George's Cathedral, Southwark; on 22 January 1850 he took charge of St John's, Islington; in 1852, on the establishment of the new hierarchy under Wiseman as cardinal-archbishop, he was created a canon of the Westminster diocese, and held this office for nearly thirty years, till his death at the end of January 1880, aged 77.\nWorks.\nOakeley published 42 works. Before his conversion were:\nAlso a number of articles contributed to the \"British Critic\".\nAfter his conversion he brought out many books in support of Catholicism, including:\nHe was a constant contributor to the \"Dublin Review\" and \"The Month\". To Cardinal Manning's \"Essays on Religious Subjects\" (1865) he contributed \"The Position of a Catholic Minority in a non-Catholic Country\". The last article he wrote was one in \"Time\" (March 1880), on \"Personal Recollections of Oxford from 1820 to 1845\" (reprinted in Lilian M. Quiller-Couch's \"Reminiscences of Oxford\", 1892, Oxf. Hist. Soc.) His \"Youthful Martyrs of Rome\", a verse drama in five acts (1856), was adapted from Cardinal Wiseman's \"Fabiola\"."}
{"id": "756492", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756492", "title": "USS Barb (SSN-596)", "text": "USS \"Barb\" (SSN-596), a \"Permit\"-class attack submarine, was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for the barb, a kingfish of the Atlantic coast.\nThe contract to build her was awarded to the Ingalls Shipbuilding Corporation in Pascagoula, Mississippi, and her keel was laid down on 9 November 1959. She was launched on 12 February 1962 sponsored by Mrs. Marjorie Fluckey, wife of Rear Admiral Eugene Bennett Fluckey, who earned the Medal of Honor as Commanding Officer of . The new \"Barb\" was commissioned on 24 August 1963.\nService history.\n1963\u20131967.\n\"Barb\" departed Pascagoula, Mississippi on 28 September for her shakedown cruise off the west coast. Sailing by way of the Panama Canal and Vallejo, California, she arrived in Puget Sound where she carried out a variety of trials between 30 October and 19 November. The submarine then concluded her shakedown training with a four-week, round-trip voyage to Hawaii. Upon her return to the United States West Coast on 17 December 1963, she entered the Mare Island Naval Shipyard for post-shakedown availability. Those repairs and modifications occupied her for nine months, carrying her well into 1964. On 1 July 1964, her home port was officially changed from Vallejo, California, to Pearl Harbor. Seven weeks later, \"Barb\" left the yard at Mare Island and began a somewhat circuitous voyage to her new base, traveling by way of Seattle, Washington.\nIn Hawaii, as part of Submarine Division 71, the boat pursued an active schedule of training missions in the local operating area. On 1 December 1964, \"Barb\" was designated flagship for the Commander, Submarine Force, Pacific Fleet. Local training operations in the Hawaiian Islands took up most of 1965. In fact, save for the period between 9 June and 25 July 1965 during which she voyaged to Mare Island Naval Shipyard for repairs to her sonar, the submarine operated in the Hawaiian area exclusively for two years. In the spring of 1966, Barb completed an advanced training exercise from 3 March to 15 May. In late 1966, the submarine made another extended voyage to the U.S. West Coast during which she visited San Francisco and then carried out weapons alignment tests at Dabob Bay, Washington, before undergoing repairs and modifications at the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard. \"Barb\" returned to Hawaii late in October and spent the rest of 1966 in Pearl Harbor in a restricted availability.\n1967\u20131969.\n\"Barb\" resumed a normal training schedule in the Hawaiian operating area through the first four months of 1967. Soon thereafter, however, her routine underwent a significant change when she embarked on her first deployment to the Far East on 9 May. She arrived at Naha, Okinawa, on 22 May, and sailed for Vietnamese waters on the 27th for a Vietnam War tour of duty with Task Group 77.9. After that assignment, \"Barb\" made a liberty call at Singapore before heading for Yokosuka on 19 June. The submarine spent nine days at Yokosuka and then returned to sea for almost three weeks of unspecified operations. Another upkeep period back at Yokosuka closed out the month of August, at which point \"Barb\" got underway for Hong Kong and a week-long liberty and goodwill visit. While on her way back to the Vietnamese war zone, she received orders diverting her to training duty at Naha, Okinawa. That employment lasted until the second week in October, at which time she headed for Guam. Though diverted briefly to Subic Bay, \"Barb\" reached her destination on 15 October. At the conclusion of some tactical exercises and upkeep at Guam, she set out on the voyage back to Hawaii on 24 October. The submarine ended her first Far Eastern deployment when she reentered Pearl Harbor on 1 November.\nFollowing post-deployment standdown, \"Barb\" resumed local operations in the Hawaiian Islands at the beginning of 1968. On 11 April 1968 \"Barb\" reported dozens of warships, including four or five submarines, of the Soviet Navy's Pacific Fleet all moving slowly and pinging with active sonar. The was missing, and a series of events that would prompt the building of the Hughes Glomar Explorer six years later had begun.\nIn late May 1968 she commenced regular overhaul at the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard. The maintenance and repairs took up the rest of 1968 and nearly all of 1969. The overhaul ended officially on 8 December 1969, just in time for the annual holiday standdown.\n1970\u20131972.\nEarly in January 1970, \"Barb\" sailed to Washington state again to carry out weapons systems' accuracy tests and to test a new type of torpedo. Returning to Hawaii late in February, \"Barb\" pursued a normal schedule of local training missions from her base at Pearl Harbor. That occupied her for the remainder of 1970; though, late in the year, she began preparations to deploy overseas.\nThe submarine left Pearl Harbor for the Western Pacific on 2 January 1971. She combined an extended special operation with her passage west that made the transit an unusually long one. She did not arrive in Yokosuka until 7 February. After two weeks of upkeep there, she headed for Subic Bay where she made a two-day stop. Departing Subic Bay on the 28th, \"Barb\" carried out another four weeks of special operations before returning to Subic Bay on 28 March. On the 30th, she embarked on the voyage to Hong Kong where she spent the first week in April. From Hong Kong, the warship sailed to the Mariana Islands, arriving at Guam on the 15th and remaining there for the rest of the month. On 1 May, she returned to sea for eight weeks of special operations. Her deployment ended on 25 June with her arrival back in Pearl Harbor.\nAfter post-deployment standdown, \"Barb\" began an extended shipyard availability at the end of July. She left the drydock in mid-October, but other repair work occupied her through the end of 1971 and into 1972 so \"Barb\" did not resume normal operations until the spring of 1972.\n1972\u20131976.\nOn 22 May 1972, the submarine deployed to the Marianas area once more and operated from Apra Harbor, Guam, for most of the remainder of the year.\nOn 8 July 1972, \"Barb\" lay in Apra Harbor completing repairs prior to a patrol in the Mariana Islands. Typhoon Rita was approaching Guam, and \"Barb\" intended to be at sea and submerged before the storm arrived. Shortly after 04:00 hours, \"Cobalt 2\", a B-52 Stratofortress of the Strategic Air Command commanded by United States Air Force Captain Leroy Johnson, took off from Andersen Air Force Base, intending to fly over the storm. Soon after takeoff, however, the aircraft became uncontrollable, and the crew bailed out. By 05:25, the six-man crew were in the ocean. A C-97 Stratofreighter spotted the survivors and radioed their location to Joint Search and Rescue at Agana. \"Barb\" and submarine were ordered to proceed at best speed to provide rescue. At about 23:00, \"Barb\" surfaced about from the reported location. The heavy weather had already forced surface ships to turn back, and caused the round-hulled submarine to roll and corkscrew violently. It was 01:15 hours the next morning before the boat's crew spotted the survivors' lights. They made numerous attempts to rescue the airmen through the night, but did not succeed.\nBy 07:40 hours, visibility had improved and the typhoon had moved from the immediate area, and the boat approached a group of three rafts. Several attempts to shoot a line to the survivors failed, so Chief Torpedoman Jon Hentz volunteered to swim to them, towing a line. At about 08:15, the rafts holding Major Ronald Dvorak, the Electronic Warfare Officer, Lieutenant William Neely III, the copilot, and Lieutenant Kent Dodson, the navigator, were secured to the submarine. Over the next hour, they were brought aboard, a task made more challenging by the waves that often exposed the submarine's screw and the ballast tank flood grates at the bottom of the boat. At about 10:00 hours, orbiting aircraft vectored \"Barb\" to the next survivor, Airman Daniel Johansen, the aircraft's gunner, who caught a line shot to him and was pulled aboard in less than a quarter-hour.\nMeanwhile, \"Gurnard\" arrived on the scene, found Captain Leroy Johnson, the aircraft commander, and brought him aboard. Lieutenant Colonel J.L. Vaughn, the radar navigator, had not survived the night. Aircraft sighted his body floating face down, still tied to his raft.\nThe survivors were carried back to Guam, where each boat was presented the Meritorious Unit Commendation, and ten submariners who played perilous topside roles received individual commendations. Torpedoman Hentz received the Navy and Marine Corps Medal.\nOn 15 December 1972, \"Barb\" returned to Hawaii. From January to early March 1973, she carried out normal training missions out of her home port. On 10 March, she stood out of Pearl Harbor on a three-month overseas assignment. Following another eight-week special operation, she visited Pusan, South Korea, for four days during the second week in May. From Pusan, the submarine sailed back to the Marianas, in the vicinity of which she operated for about a month before heading back to Hawaii on 10 June. She reentered Pearl Harbor on the 18th.\nAt the end of the usual month of leave and upkeep, \"Barb\" took up local training operations once again in July. In September, she participated in the multinational exercise RIMPAC 73. During the remainder of 1973, the submarine returned to local training duty and began preparations for her second refueling overhaul scheduled to begin the following spring. That overhaul commenced when she entered the Mare Island Naval Shipyard on 1 March 1974, and lasted for just over 20 months. During that time, her home port was changed from Pearl Harbor to San Diego so that, when she completed the overhaul early in November 1975, \"Barb\" began her refresher training out of that new home port. Similar assignments carried out all along the west coast of North America occupied her time for almost 16 months. She did not start preparing for another tour of duty overseas until late in 1976, and the deployment itself did not begin until early in 1977.\n1977\u20131979.\nOn 17 February 1977, \"Barb\" stood out of San Diego on her way to the Far East. On the first leg of her voyage, she participated in the multinational exercise RIMPAC 77 and then made a two-day call at her former home port, Pearl Harbor, at the end of the month. She then embarked on the transit to Subic Bay, the duration of which was extended by exercises with TG 37.9 and TG 77.3. The submarine arrived in Subic Bay on 18 March but returned to sea almost immediately for the passage to Chinhae, Korea. Along the way, she took part in exercises with units of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force and with elements of the South Korean Navy. \"Barb\" visited Chinhae from 29 March to 1 April and then called at Hong Kong between 11 and 14 April. From Hong Kong, she set out for the Marianas, exercising with units of the Royal New Zealand Air Force and United States Navy patrol aircraft along the way. The submarine spent the period 20 April to 9 May in port at Guam, then put to sea for the first of two special operations that she conducted in May and June. \"Barb\" reentered Guam on 24 May, but returned to sea the following day to begin the second and longer of her two special operations. That employment lasted until the end of June at which time she put into Subic Bay for a week of liberty before heading back to the United States on 7 July.\nOn the way home, \"Barb\" called at Hawaii for several days in the latter part of July, resuming the voyage home on the 25th. She arrived back in San Diego on 2 August. After several weeks of relative inactivity, the submarine embarked on a schedule of local operations highlighted by her selection as a test platform for the Tomahawk cruise missile in late October. She remained so occupied through the end of 1977 into the second quarter of 1978. On 26 April, the warship entered the Mare Island Naval Shipyard for a three-month availability. She resumed normal operations out of San Diego late in July and continued so engaged until deploying to the western Pacific once more on 27 September 1978. \"Barb\" spent the week between 3 and 10 October in Hawaii and then resumed her passage west arriving in Subic Bay on the 29th. She stayed in Subic Bay for three weeks and then set sail for Japan on 20 November. After four days of voyage repairs at Yokosuka, she returned to sea on 1 December for a month-long special operation that she concluded at Chinhae, Korea, on the last day of 1978.\nThe Chinhae visit extended three days into 1979 at which point the submarine set out for the Marianas. She reached Guam on 11 January and remained there through the end of the month. On 1 February, she embarked on the voyage to Subic Bay where she arrived on the 6th. Three days later, \"Barb\" put to sea to take part in MULTIPLEX 2-79 that lasted until the 21st. She returned to Subic Bay for the last week in February before setting out on the voyage home on the 28th. Almost three weeks later, on 17 March, \"Barb\" stood into San Diego and commenced seven weeks of post-deployment leave and upkeep. At the end of the first week in May, she embarked upon a normal training routine that she carried out in the southern California operating area. Similar evolutions occupied her for the rest of 1979 and into the first weeks of 1980.\n1980\u20131989.\nOn 7 February 1980, \"Barb\" deployed to the mid-Pacific region to conduct equipment tests and procedure evaluations and to take part in the multinational exercise, RIMPAC 80. Based at Pearl Harbor, she carried out those missions until early April when she returned to San Diego. Another seven-week upkeep period followed, after which she resumed local operations out of San Diego. The submarine continued to pursue training assignments locally until July. On 21 July, \"Barb\" entered the Mare Island Naval Shipyard for an unusually extensive overhaul, which lasted until late 1982. The propulsion plant underwent steam generator cleaning. The fire control and sonar systems were replaced with the latest AN/BQQ-5 sonar and digital fire control technology. \"Barb\" received the complete SUBSAFE package of modifications the Navy first began installing on submarines in the 1960s. What was to have been an 18-month overhaul stretched into 27 months due to shipyard repair quality problems and scheduling delays. \"Barb\" underwent not one but four sea trials as each trial identified additional re-work to be done at the shipyard. \"Barb\" eventually returned to the Point Loma submarine base in San Diego, California in December 1982. Additional re-work was done in floating dry-dock in San Diego in early 1983.\n\"Barb\" was deactivated on 10 March 1989, then decommissioned and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 20 December 1989. Ex-\"Barb\" entered the Nuclear Powered Ship and Submarine Recycling Program in Bremerton, Washington, and on 14 March 1996 ceased to exist."}
{"id": "756494", "revid": "41101663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756494", "title": "Tanya Roberts", "text": "Tanya Roberts (born Victoria Leigh Blum; October 15, 1949 \u2013 January 4, 2021) was an American actress. Some of her credits include playing Julie Rogers in the final season of the television series \"Charlie's Angels\" (1980\u20131981), Stacey Sutton in the James Bond film \"A View to a Kill\" (1985), Kiri in \"The Beastmaster\" (1982), Sheena in \"Sheena: Queen of the Jungle\" (1984), and Midge Pinciotti on \"That '70s Show\" (1998\u20132004).\nEarly life.\nTanya Roberts was born Victoria Leigh Blum in 1949 (although long given as 1955) in Manhattan, New York City, to Oscar Blum and his wife Dorothy (n\u00e9e Smith). Oscar Maximilian Blum was born in New York City. Oscar's father, Theodor Blum, did pioneering work in local anesthesia and the use of X-rays in dental care. Theodor was born in Vienna, Austria and immigrated to New York in 1904. Oscar earned a bachelor's degree from Cornell University in 1934 and was a first year student in the medical college there. In 1940, Roberts's father was working as an assistant manager for a music publishing house in New York City. He married in 1945 in Weymouth, England, to Dorothy Leigh Smith from Oldham, England. At age 22 Dorothy arrived in New York City in April 1945. In 1948, Dorothy returned to New York from a trip to England with Roberts's two-year-old sister, Barbara. Roberts's father was of Jewish descent and her mother was of English or Irish descent. It has also been reported that her father was of Irish descent and her mother was Jewish. She had one older sister, Barbara. The 1950 U.S. Census shows that, as of April 1950, the Blum family lived in the hamlet of Hewlett in Hempstead, NY and that Oscar Blum was a sales executive for a pen manufacturer. The Blum family were living in Scarsdale, New York in July 1950, purchasing the property in March 1951, and selling it January 1958. Later in the same month in 1958 Roberts's parents obtained a mortgage to buy a property in neighboring Greenburgh, New York and later sold it in July 1961.\nAfter meeting psychology student Barry Roberts while waiting in line for a movie, Victoria Blum proposed to him in a subway station and they were soon married in 1973. While Barry pursued a career as a screenwriter, she began to study at the Actors Studio with Lee Strasberg and Uta Hagen under the name Tanya Roberts.\nCareer.\n1970s: Early career and \"Charlie's Angels\".\nRoberts began her career as a model in TV ads for Excedrin, Ultra Brite, Clairol, and Cool Ray sunglasses. She played serious roles in the off-Broadway productions \"Picnic\" and \"Antigone\". She also supported herself as an Arthur Murray dance instructor. Her film debut was in \"The Last Victim\" (1975). This was followed by the comedy \"The Yum-Yum Girls\" (1976). In 1977, as Barry Roberts was securing his own screenwriting career, the couple moved to Hollywood. Roberts was then cast in \"The Private Files of J. Edgar Hoover\" (1977) and the following year, participated in the drama \"Fingers\". In 1979 Roberts appeared in the cult film \"Tourist Trap\", \"Racquet,\" and \"California Dreaming\". Roberts was featured in several television pilots which were not picked up: \"Zuma Beach\" (a 1978 comedy), \"Pleasure Cove\" (1979), and \"Waikiki\" (1980).\nIn the summer of 1980, Roberts was chosen from some 2,000 candidates to replace Shelley Hack in the fifth season of the detective television series \"Charlie's Angels\". Roberts played Julie Rogers, a streetwise fighter who used her fists more than her gun. Producers hoped Roberts's presence would revitalize the series's declining ratings and regenerate media interest in the series. Before the season's premiere, Roberts was featured on the cover of \"People\" magazine with a headline asking if Roberts would be able to save the declining series from cancellation. Despite the hype of Roberts's debut in November 1980, the series continued to draw dismal ratings and was canceled in June 1981.\n1982\u20131984: B-movies.\nRoberts played Kiri, a slave rescued by protagonist Dar (Marc Singer) in the adventure fantasy film \"The Beastmaster\" (1982), which became a cult film. She was featured in a nude pictorial in \"Playboy\" to help promote the film, appearing on the cover of the October 1982 issue. In 1983, Roberts filmed the Italian-made adventure fantasy film \"Hearts and Armour\" (also known as \"Paladini-storia d'armi e d'amori\" and \"Paladins \u2014 The Story of Love and Arms\"), based on the Renaissance epic poem \"Orlando Furioso\".\nShe portrayed Velda, the secretary to private detective Mike Hammer, in the television film \"Murder Me, Murder You\" (1983), based on crime novelist Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer private detective series. The two-part pilot spawned the syndicated television series \"Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer\". She declined to continue the role in the Mike Hammer series to work on her next project, the 1984 fantasy film \"Sheena: Queen of the Jungle,\" in which she played the main character. The film was a box-office failure, and garnered her a nomination for \"Worst Actress\" at the Razzie Awards. Writing in \"The New Yorker\", film critic Pauline Kael described Roberts as \"[having] a staring, comic-book opaqueness\" and \"a walking, talking icon\".\n1985\u20132005: \"A View to a Kill\" and \"That '70s Show\".\nRoberts appeared as Bond girl, geologist Stacey Sutton, in \"A View to a Kill\" (1985) with Roger Moore; the first choice for the role was Priscilla Presley. In the wake of this performance, Roberts was nominated for a second Razzie Award. Roberts's other 1980s films include \"Night Eyes\", an erotic thriller; \"Body Slam\" (1987), an action film set in the professional wrestling world (another cult favorite); and \"Purgatory\", a film about a woman wrongfully imprisoned in Africa. Towards the end of the decade, Roberts recorded the reference footage of \"The Legend of Zelda\" used by producers during the creation of the animated adaptation.\nRoberts starred in the erotic thriller \"Inner Sanctum\" (1991) alongside Margaux Hemingway. In 1992, she played Kay Egan in \"Sins of Desire\". She appeared on the cable series \"Hot Line\" in 1995, and in the video game \"The Pandora Directive\" in 1996.\nIn 1998, Roberts took the role of Midge Pinciotti on the television sitcom \"That '70s Show\". In her obituary in \"The Guardian\", Ryan Gilbey praises \"[h]er knowing performance\" in this role, \"slow on the uptake but growing dissatisfied with her life as a housewife\". She left the series after the 3rd season in 2001, because her husband had become terminally ill, returning for a few special guest appearances in the 6th and 7th seasons in 2004.\n2006\u20132021: Later ventures.\nIn 2007, Roberts recorded two television pilots with herself as presenter; \"Celebrity Tee Time\" involved Roberts playing golf on courses around the world with various celebrity friends, and \"Toolin' with Tanya\" about gardening and DIY. Both were filmed and sent to television networks, however neither were broadcast.\nRoberts wrote the foreword to the book \"The Q Guide to Charlie's Angels\" (2008).\nDuring the COVID-19 pandemic, she maintained an active social media presence by hosting video chats on Facebook and Zoom.\nPersonal life.\nRoberts was married to Barry Roberts from 1974 until his death in 2006. They had no children. Roberts lived in Hollywood Hills, California. Some time after his death, she became the partner of Lance O'Brien. Her sister, Barbara Chase, was married to Timothy Leary.\nRoberts was described by her publicist as an animal rights activist. \nDeath.\nWhile hiking on December 23, 2020, Roberts developed lower abdominal pain and difficulty breathing. She returned home to rest. Early the next morning, she fell out of bed and found she could not get up. She was taken to Cedars-Sinai Hospital, where it was determined she had developed a urinary tract infection that had advanced to sepsis. Her body's immune response to the infection resulted in multi-organ failure. She had to be placed on a ventilator to help her breathe. Her boyfriend, Lance O'Brien, was not allowed to see her due to restrictions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Her condition deteriorated, and on January 3, 2021, she was taken off life support. O'Brien was finally then allowed to visit her. Her death was prematurely reported early on January 4, though she died that evening at the age of 71. In a handwritten will, Roberts left her estate to O'Brien.\nRoberts's death was announced prematurely by her publicist."}
{"id": "756495", "revid": "47242410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756495", "title": "Urian Oakes", "text": "Urian Oakes (1631 \u2013 July 25, 1681) was an English-born American Congregational minister and educator who served as the fourth president of Harvard College from 1675 to 1681.\nEarly life.\nThe son of Edward and Jane Oakes, he was born in England in 1631 or 1632, and went, when a child, with his father to Massachusetts by the year 1640; Thomas Oakes was his brother. He graduated at Harvard College in 1649. Oakes returned to England during the time of the Commonwealth, and became a minister at Titchfield. He married, probably in England, to an unknown wife. He was one of many clergymen ejected from their living in 1662 as a result of the Act of Uniformity.\nOakes found work as a schoolteacher and nonconformist minister.\nConnection with Harvard.\nOakes' wife died in 1669. Two years later a deputation, sent to England to find a minister for the vacant church of Cambridge, Massachusetts, chose Oakes. He took up the post in November 1671, and soon after he became one of the governors of Harvard College. Leonard Hoar became President of Harvard in 1672, but was disliked by many, including some of the governors, among them Oakes. He and other of his colleagues resigned, and, in spite of the efforts of the general court of overseers, would not withdraw their resignation till Hoar himself vacated the presidency on 15 March 1675. The vacancy created was filled by the appointment of Oakes. He, however, would only accept it provisionally; but after discharging the duties of the office for four years, he in 1679 accepted the full appointment in form, and held it till his death in Cambridge on July 25, 1681. Calamy states that Oakes was noted for 'the uncommon sweetness of his temper,' and in New England he was greatly beloved by his congregation and popular with all who came in contact with him.\nLegacy.\nHe was known as a preacher and Latinist. His extant writings are three sermons\u2014two preached at the annual election of the artillery company in 1672 and 1676, and the third at the election of representatives in 1673\u2014and a monody in English verse (Cambridge, 1677) on the death of Thomas Shepard, minister of the church in Charlestown.\nReferences.\nAttribution'"}
{"id": "756497", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756497", "title": "Olsen gang", "text": ""}
{"id": "756498", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756498", "title": "Francis Oakley", "text": ""}
{"id": "756499", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756499", "title": "Francis C. Oakley", "text": ""}
{"id": "756501", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756501", "title": "USS Flasher (SSN-613)", "text": "USS \"Flasher\" (SSN-613), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for the flasher, a member of the fish family Lobotidae, which have an unusual placement of the second dorsal and anal fins, posteriorly located on the body, close to the tail.\nConstruction history.\nThe contract to build her was awarded to the Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics Corporation in Groton, Connecticut on 9 June 1960 and her keel was laid down on 14 April 1961.\nOriginally laid down as the eleventh submarine in the \"Thresher\"-class building program, \"Flasher\" was extensively modified during the construction period. These modifications consisted of lengthening the hull, lengthening the sail, and upgrading the watertight integrity of the sea water systems. The SUBSAFE Program was developed as a result of the loss of , the first submarine of the class; \"Flasher\" became the first submarine certified as SUBSAFE. This contributed to the lengthy delay between being laid down and commissioning.\nIn the nation's only simultaneous twin launching of Nuclear submarines, \"Flasher\" and were launched on 22 June 1963. \"Flasher\" was sponsored and christened by Mrs. Paul F. Fay, Jr., wife of the Under Secretary of the Navy. Vice Admiral Elton W. Grenfell, then Commander Submarine Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet (ComSubLant), delivered the principal address. She was commissioned on 22 July 1966, with Commander Kenneth M. Carr in command. The principal speaker at the commissioning was US Representative George W. Grider of Tennessee, who had commanded during World War II and presented Cdr Carr with the original WW II Flasher Battle Flag that was later mounted and hung in the crewsmess.\nService history.\n1966\u20131969.\nAfter commissioning, \"Flasher\" arrived at new her home port of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on 23 September 1966, under command of CDR Kenneth M. Carr. On 7 October 1966 she received a visit from the Director General of the Japanese Defense Agency Mr. Elkichi Kambayashiyama, in company with COMSUBPAC Rear Admiral John H. Maurer.\nIn late January 1968 Flasher deployed with the fleet assembled after the USS Pueblo was captured by the North Koreans. Her station was in the Sea of Japan off the harbor of Wonsan, NK. While patrolling she encountered a small ice flow that snapped off the top of a periscope. Flasher proceeded to Guam for 9 days to have the periscope replaced and then proceeded back to her station off North Korea. After leaving station Flasher obtained permission to have a port call at Yokosuka, Japan before sailing for her home port of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. For this deployment Flasher was awarded the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal and the Korean Defense Service Medal.\n\"Flasher\" sailed for her first Western Pacific (WESTPAC) deployment on 25 April 1969, and was awarded her first Battle Efficiency \"E\" for overall combat excellence on 4 July 1968. \"Flasher\" was awarded her second consecutive Battle Efficiency \"E\" on 1 July 1969. On 2 December 1969 \"Flasher\" was awarded her first Meritorious Unit Commendation for her service during the period March 1967 through August 1968.\n1970\u20131979.\nOn 15 June 1970 \"Flasher\" commenced her first major overhaul at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard, which was completed by 12 June 1971. In November 1971 \"Flasher\" commenced another WESTPAC deployment, visiting Guam, Mariana Islands; White Beach, Okinawa; Yokosuka, Japan; Subic Bay, Philippines, and Hong Kong, before returning to her home port in June 1972. On 1 July 1972 \"Flasher\" was awarded her third Battle Efficiency \"E\" for overall combat excellence, and on 13 July 1972 received a visit from Secretary of the Navy John Chafee. On 19 August 1972 \"Flasher\" was awarded a Presidential Unit Citation, at a ceremony, where CDR R.F. Bacon assumed command. Bacon would later go on to become Vice Admiral and Assistant Chief of Naval Operations for Undersea Warfare. \"Flasher\" then participated in the RIMPAC 72 exercise that September.\nOn 2 March 1973 \"Flasher\" was awarded a Navy Unit Commendation for her operations in 1970\u20131971. She commenced another WESTPAC deployment in early 1973, visiting Yokosuka, Japan, Guam, and Hong Kong before returning to Pearl Harbor on 24 December 1973. During this tour, on 1 July 1973, she was awarded her fourth Battle Efficiency \"E\" for overall combat excellence. In June 1974 \"Flasher\" completed a two-month special operation.\n\"Flasher\" commenced her second overhaul (Refueling and Overhaul) at Mare Island Naval Shipyard on 11 January 1975, changed homeport to Mare Island, and shifted administrative command to Submarine Squadron 3. The overhaul completed on 16 December 1976, she changed homeport to San Diego, California, on 22 December 1976.\nIn August 1977 she attended the Seattle Seafarer Festival.\n\"Flasher\" completed a 3-month Mid-Pac / special operation April to June 1978.\nIn January 1979 \"Flasher\" commenced a Selected Restricted Availability (SRA) at Mare Island Naval Shipyard, which was completed on 29 March 1979. In June 1979 she attended the Portland Rose Festival. On 1 July 1979 she was awarded her fifth Battle Efficiency \"E\".\n1980\u20131992.\nOn 12 November 1980 she was awarded her second Meritorious Unit Commendation for the period November 1979 through May 1980, and on 5 November 1982 was awarded a third Meritorious Unit Commendation for the period July 1981 through January 1982. The crew earned the Navy Expeditionary Medal for actions taken during this period.\n\"Flasher\" completed a 3-month Mid-Pac / special operation August to November 1982. The crew earned the Navy Expeditionary Medal for actions taken during this period.\n\"Flasher\" commenced her third overhaul at Mare Island Naval Shipyard on 9 May 1983, which was completed on 26 March 1985, and she shifted homeport back to San Diego, California.\nIn March 1986 \"Flasher\" began another WESTPAC deployment, and visited Yokosuka, Japan; Guam; and Subic Bay, completing the voyage in August 1986. The crew earned the Navy Expeditionary Medal for actions taken during this period.\n\"Flasher\" completed her last WESTPAC deployment, with visits to Guam; Yokosuka, Japan; Korea; and Hong Kong, in April 1990.\n\"Flasher\" completed a two-month special operation in August\u2013October 1990, and another in March\u2013May 1991.\n\"Flasher\" was awarded her Fourth Meritorious Unit Commendation in 1991 for the ship's last two-month special operation, and on 18 June 1991 an Inactivation Ceremony was held at the Naval Base Point Loma, San Diego, California.\nFate.\n\"Flasher\" was decommissioned on 26 May 1992 and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 14 September 1992. Ex-\"Flasher\" entered the Nuclear Powered Ship and Submarine Recycling Program in Bremerton, Washington. Recycling was completed on 11 May 1994.\nAwards.\n\"Flasher\" was highly decorated, receiving five Battle \"E\"s, four Meritorious Unit Commendations, a Navy Unit Commendation, and a Presidential Unit Citation during her 25-year career. She is one of only eight submarines to receive the Presidential Unit Citation since World War II.\nPresidential Unit Citation \u2013 1970\nFor extraordinary heroism and outstanding performance of duty as a member of the Submarine Force, United States Pacific Fleet, during the spring of 1970. USS FLASHER successfully accomplished an extremely difficult, demanding, and most sensitive operation of exceptional value and lasting significance to the readiness posture of the United States. The outstanding courage, resourcefulness, professional competence and inspiring devotion to duty displayed by the officers and men of USS FLASHER reflected great credit upon themselves and were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.\nShip insignia.\nThe insignia of the \"Flasher\" was adapted from the insignia of the original , commissioned on 25 September 1943. Popular lore was that this insignia was designed by Walt Disney. However, other sources indicate that the logo was designed by a graphic artist who also worked for Disney, and that at best Walt Disney merely looked over his shoulder and provided some suggestions. During the final days of construction on the SSN-613, the crew developed several designs based on the original. The two ships' numbers were added and the electron orbits added to symbolize nuclear power. The insignia became official in 1965."}
{"id": "756502", "revid": "41840956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756502", "title": "Kate (text editor)", "text": "The KDE Advanced Text Editor, or Kate, is a source code editor developed by the KDE free software community. It has been a part of KDE Software Compilation since version 2.2, which was first released in 2001. Intended for software developers, it features syntax highlighting, code folding, customizable layouts, multiple cursors and selections, regular expression support, and extensibility via plugins. The text editor's mascot is Kate the Cyber Woodpecker.\nHistory.\nKate has been part of the KDE Software Compilation since release 2.2 in 2001. Because of KParts technology, it is possible to embed Kate as an editing component in other KDE applications. Major KDE applications which use Kate as an editing component include the integrated development environment KDevelop, the web development environment Quanta Plus, and the LaTeX front-end Kile.\nKate has won the advanced text editor comparison in \"Linux Voice\" magazine.\n, development had started to port Kate, along with Dolphin, Konsole, KDE Telepathy, and Yakuake, to KDE Frameworks 5.\nIn 2022, the KDE text-editor KWrite was modified to use the same code base as Kate with deactivated features.\nFeatures.\nKate is a source code editor that features syntax highlighting for over 300 file formats with code folding rules. The syntax highlighting is extensible via XML files. It supports UTF-8, UTF-16, ISO-8859-1 and ASCII encoding schemes and can detect a file's character encoding automatically. Kate offers code completion and reference finding for various programming languages through its Language Server Protocol Client plugin. The default configuration supports C, C++, D, Fortran, Go, Latex, Python, Rust, and OCaml.\nKate's main text editor widget is called \"KatePart\", which is reusable under the terms of the LGPL version 2 license. It must not be confused with the KParts, a KDE plugin framework for user interface components that Kate also uses.\nKate can be used as a modal text editor through its \"vi\" input mode.\nKate features multiple document interface, window splitting, project editing and sessions to facilitate editing multiple documents. Using \"sessions\", one can customize Kate for different projects by saving the list of open files, the list of enabled plug-ins and the window configuration.\nKate includes the KDE terminal emulator Konsole through its Terminal Tool View plugin. Since version 23.04, the terminal is also available on windows.\nThe \"quick open\" feature allows searching opened files by name for quick recalling. Line modification indicators highlight lines with unsaved changes and lines added in the current session.\nBeing a KDE application, Kate transparently opens and saves files over all protocols supported by KIO libraries. This includes HTTP, FTP, SSH, SMB and WebDAV, among others.\n, unlike Xed, \"Kate\" is equipped with a session manager which allows naming, saving, and restoring sessions, meaning a list of momentarily open file tabs. Saved sessions are stored as key-value-formatted codice_1 files into codice_2.\nOther features are a clipboard history with up to ten items, the ability to jump to a line number, and source control integration using Git"}
{"id": "756503", "revid": "49087436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756503", "title": "Francis Christopher Oakley", "text": " use both this parameter and |birth_date to display the person's date of birth, date of death, and age at death) --&gt;\nFrancis Christopher Oakley (born 1931) is the former Edward Dorr Griffin Professor of the History of Ideas at Williams College, President Emeritus of Williams College and President Emeritus of the American Council of Learned Societies, New York. He also served as Interim Director of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute.\nBiography.\nBorn in England in 1931 to Irish immigrant parents and raised in Liverpool. He was educated at Oxford University and graduated in 1953 with First Class Honours in the Honours School of Modern History. Awarded a Goldsmiths' Company's Commonwealth Traveling Research Scholarship, he spent the next two years studying Latin Palaeography and the history of Medieval Philosophy at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto.\nOakley's graduate studies were interrupted by the need to return to England to serve for two years (followed by reserve duty) in the British Army, where he rose to the rank of lieutenant in the Royal Corps of Signals and was attached to the Commonwealth Communications Army Network (COMCAN). Having decided to return to North America, he completed his Ph.D in History at Yale University in 1959. He spent the next two years teaching in the Yale History Department before taking a position in the history department of Williams College. There, for forty years, he taught medieval and early-modern history, as well as courses in the Interdepartmental History of Ideas major (of which he was co-founder) and in the Environmental Studies Program until his retirement in 2002.\nOakley spent seventeen years of senior administrative service at Williams (1977\u201394), first as Dean of the Faculty, then as President of the College, and later, 2002\u201303, as President of the American Council of Learned Societies in New York City\u2014an interim appointment.\nOakley has held visiting research appointments at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, the National Humanities Center in North Carolina, and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C. During the academic year 1999-2000, he held the Sir Isaiah Berlin Visiting Professorship in the History of Ideas at Oxford University.\nOakley has written extensively on topics about medieval and early modern intellectual and religious history and American higher education, and is the co-editor of three volumes and the author of fifteen books. Prominent among the latter are his \"Omnipotence\", \"Covenant and Order: An Excursion in the History of Ideas from Abelard to Leibniz\", (1984), \"Community of Learning: The American College and the Liberal Arts Tradition\" (1992), and \"The Conciliarist Tradition: Constitutionalism in the Catholic Church 1300-1870\" (2003), which was awarded the Roland H. Bainton Book Prize in 2004. For ten years, Oakley worked on a trilogy with the overall title of \"The Emergence of Western Political Thought in the Latin Middle Ages\", published by Yale University Press between 2010 and 2015, and for which he received the 2016 Haskins Medal from the Medieval Academy of America. An honorary Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Oxford, he is also Fellow of the Medieval Academy of America (President of the Fellows, 1999-2002) and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He holds honorary degrees, LL.D., L.H.D. and Litt.D., from Notre Dame, Northwestern University, Wesleyan University, Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts, Sacred Heart University, Amherst College, Bowdoin College, Southern Methodist University, and Williams College.\nThe historian has served for many years on the boards of various non-profit organizations in the arts and higher education, among them the Williamstown Theatre Festival, the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art (MASS MoCA), the American Council of Learned Societies (board chair 1994-97), the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute (board president 1998-2005), and the National Humanities Center (board chair 2004-7). Oakley currently serves as the Interim Director of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute.\nHe is married to the former Claire-Ann Lamenzo of Manchester, CT, a fiber artist and horsewoman. They have four children\u2014Deirdre, Christopher, Timothy, and Brian\u2014and seven grandchildren: William, Charlotte, Ryann, Erin, Kevin and Joslyn Oakley."}
{"id": "756506", "revid": "50728611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756506", "title": "Richard Oastler", "text": "Richard Oastler (20 December 1789\u00a0\u2013 22 August 1861) was a \"Tory radical\", an active opponent of Catholic Emancipation and Parliamentary Reform and a lifelong admirer of the Duke of Wellington; but also an abolitionist and prominent in the \"anti-Poor Law\" resistance to the implementation of the \"New Poor Law\" of 1834. Most notably, as his sobriquet of the \"Factory King\" indicates, he was at the heart of the campaign for a ten-hour working day in its early years: although less so by the time of its successful culmination in the Factories Act 1847, he retained the sobriquet.\n\"Moved by pity and indignation at the long hours worked by young children in factories, he devoted his life to their emancipation, and was a tireless champion of the Ten Hours Factory Bill\" noted a commemorative plaque erected in Leeds parish church in 1925. \"He cannot altogether claim prominence as a political thinker...but history acclaims him not as a politician, but as an agitator\" commented the \"Yorkshire Post\" on that occasion.\nEarly years.\nBorn in Leeds, West Riding of Yorkshire, Oastler was the youngest of ten children born to Sarah (a daughter of Joseph Scurr) and Robert Oastler, a linen merchant. Robert continued to live in Leeds when he later became steward for Thomas Thornhill, the absentee landlord of Fixby, a large estate near Huddersfield, and of Calverley (between Leeds and Bradford, to the north of both). When Richard was six, his twelve-year-old brother Robert died as a result of a fire in a flax mill. Richard attended a Moravian boarding school from 1798 to 1806 (\"It was there that I learned to be bold, for I was taught there to fear nothing but sin\"), and then (his father vetoing Richard's desire to become a barrister) started training to become an architect.\nAfter four years his failing sight forced him to give this up; in 1810 he became a commission agent, dealing in oils and dry-saltery: he also acted as a steward for the Dixons of Gledhow Hall near Leeds, and was used by his father from time to time to carry out work for the Fixby estate (as when in 1812 he organised precautions against the Luddites). He became involved in charity work in Leeds; sick visiting with Michael Thomas Sadler and organising charitable relief of the destitute. In 1816, he married Mary Tatham, daughter of Mary (n\u00e9e Strickland, from Leeds) and Thomas Tatham, a Nottingham grocer. Richard and Mary had two children, both of whom had died by 1819. Early in 1820 he went bankrupt; later that year on the death of his father, he was invited to succeed him as steward of the Fixby estate, looking after a rent roll of \u00a318,000 per year, on an annual salary of \u00a3300. He accepted, moving to Fixby Hall in 1821. When in 1827 the vicar of Halifax (in which parish Fixby lay) attempted to increase his income by \"resuming\" collection of various tithes which he claimed to be \"customary\", Oastler was prominent in opposition. He later claimed that it was this struggle that had broken his health, leaving him liable to periodic breakdowns in health.\nPolitical philosophy.\nTo Oastler \"Tory-Radical\" was not a description of a political philosophy (and certainly not of his) but of a tactical alliance of the supporters of two different philosophies against the Whigs. He was a \"Church and King\" Tory but, as the Duke of Wellington noted, a strange one. He denied any element of Radicalism in his political philosophy, and regarded himself as an \"ultra-Tory\" rather than a Peelite \"Conservative\"; he thought Peel too readily accepted (and adopted) the Whig application of the modern doctrines of \"political economy\" to the country's problems. He held that God knew better than Malthus: nothing could supersede Biblical injunctions that the poor should not be oppressed and the distressed should be succoured. Market forces were not a \"hidden hand\" working for some greater good, nor was interference with them imprudent folly. On the contrary I believe that man is a fallen, selfish, ignorant being, and that every unregulated and unrestrained action of his is fraught with evil\u00a0\u2013 that, if left without the restraining and regulating laws of God (which, by our Constitution, must be part and parcel of the laws of the land), instead of preferring such schemes, in the search of his own advantage, as would be advantageous to the society, his selfishness would lead him to injure all for his own benefit. I learn this from the Holy Bible. I have often witnessed it.\n Reform on a Whig laissez-faire agenda had worsened the condition of the poor and led to chronic discontent, to which the response was greater centralisation and greater coercion; this was a vicious circle which could only end badly. He had seen the \"poor deluded famished Luddites\" and thought them to be pitied rather than feared\u00a0\u2013 only because they were famished had they allowed themselves to be deluded. English working people loved peace, order and their old local habits; they disliked change and confusion The great mistake in the minds of those raised above the working class is, that they think the people want plunder and anarchy. I know they want no such thing\u00a0\u2013 they want peace and rest\u00a0\u2013 and their rights. They want to be able to go out in a morning, get a good day's work done, and come home with a fair remuneration... If the working men of England were dealt with according to the Bible rather than \"political economy\" their economic woes would disappear. With those woes gone support for Reform, Radicalism, trades unionism etc. would evaporate. There would then be no need for a centralised coercive state apparatus: instead the throne (and the rest of the constitution) would rest on the securest foundation\u00a0\u2013 the love of the people. To Oastler, therefore, rich Whigs were a greater danger to the \"status quo\" than were working-class Radicals. Until the 1840s, very few Tories would have agreed with him: events such as the Bristol riots of 1831 seeming to provide evidence that coercion was essential.\nWorking class radicals were initially dubious about allying themselves with an opponent of their constitutional aspirations, but eventually came to value Oastler more highly than many of their ostensible allies; a co-belligerent \"above purchase and above suspicion\" on bread-and-butter issues: the portrait of Oastler reproduced in this article was given away by the Chartist Northern Star in its series of prints of \"Portraits of Patriots\".\nFactory Reform.\n\"Yorkshire Slavery\".\nIn 1830 Oastler, a committed abolitionist, was visiting John Wood of Horton Hall near Bradford, one of the largest worsted spinners in the country. Whilst an existing (virtually un-enforceable) Factory Act specified a minimum age and maximum hours of work for children in cotton mills, it did not apply to other textile industries (such as: silk, flax, woollen and worsted ). Wood, unhappy at the hours and conditions of work for children in Yorkshire worsted mills and his inability to persuade his competitors to ameliorate them, explained his concerns to Oastler and got him to promise to \"remove from our factory system the cruelties which are practised in our mills\". Oastler wrote the next day a letter to the Leeds Mercury the leading West Riding newspaper contrasting speeches made at Yorkshire anti-slavery meetings with the treatment of children in Yorkshire factories\u00a0\u2013 \"Yorkshire Slavery\":\nThousands of our fellow-creatures and fellow-subjects, both male and female, the miserable inhabitants of a Yorkshire town, (Yorkshire now represented in Parliament by the giant of anti-slavery principles) are this very moment existing in a state of slavery, more horrid than are the victims of that hellish system 'colonial slavery' These innocent creatures drawl out, unpitied, their short but miserable existence, in a place famed for its profession of religious zeal, whose inhabitants are ever foremost in professing 'temperance' and 'reformation' and are striving to outrun their neighbours in missionary exertions, and would fain send the Bible to the farthest corner of the globe aye, in the very place where the anti-slavery fever rages most furiously, her apparent charity is not more admired on earth, than her real cruelty is abhorred in Heaven. The very streets which receive the droppings of an 'Anti-Slavery Society' are every morning wet by the tears of innocent victims at the accursed shrine of avarice, who are compelled (not by the cart-whip of the negro slave-driver) but by the dread of the equally appalling thong or strap of the over-looker, to hasten, half -dressed, but not half-fed, to those magazines of British infantile slavery the worsted mills in the town and neighbourhood of Bradford!!!\nAfter a fortnight's delay, the Mercury published the letter. This triggered correspondence; it became clear that other readers of the Mercury were also perturbed at conditions for children not only in the worsted industry, but also in other unregulated textile trades carried out in the West Riding. Oastler took up the cause of factory regulation. However, the millowners organised to resist any attempt to regulate their mills.\nHalifax resolutions\u00a0\u2013 breach with the \"Mercury\".\nIn 1831, John Cam Hobhouse put forward a Bill to extend the Factory Act to other textile industries; Yorkshire millowners opposing the Bill met at Halifax and passed anti-Bill resolutions which the \"Mercury\" printed with an editorial endorsing the resolutions and opposing Hobhouse's Bill. Oastler wrote a long letter to the \"Mercury\" criticising the resolutions and reiterating the need for factory regulation. The \"Mercury\" printed his letter but omitted his detailed criticism of the resolutions, telling readers it had not printed the full letter because it 'outraged the judgement' and exceeded 'the bounds of reason and justice', objection being particularly taken to his 'brimstone rhetoric'. Oastler took great exception to this; the \"Leeds Intelligencer\", the great (Tory) rival of the (Whig) \"Mercury\" was happy to print the letter in full, including such passages as:Resolution 3\u00a0\u2013 attempts to persuade the public that if the manufacturers are not allowed to continue their present cruelties, the children will be starved and unemployed, and that, \"as these poor children are the main support of their strong and healthy parents\", why, forsooth, the parents must starve too! That compelling the masters to treat their children better \"will REDUCE wages\", and, what is very singular, \"will, at the same time RAISE THE PRICE of goods to the consumers\". Thus destroying \"at one fell swoop\" the maker, the buyer, the consumer\u00a0\u2013 both the home and foreign markets will be lost\u00a0\u2013 the agricultural and landed proprietor ruined:- all this they say will be the consequences if poor little English children are protected from the cruelty and oppression of their worse than Egyptian task-masters. Happy England, whose very existence depends upon thy cruelty to infants! ... Self interest and avarice, and \"not necessity\" now goad thee on to ruin. England, beware! Let her inhabitants consider. They pretend to be Christians, and their God hath said\u00a0\u2013 \"If thou seest the oppression of the poor and violent perverting of judgement and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: for he that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than they.\" \"But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days.\" \"Rob not the poor because he is poor, for the Lord will plead their cause and spoil the soul of those who spoil them\" \"Deliver the poor and needy, rid them out of the hand of the wicked.\" \"If the poor curse thee in the bitterness of his soul, his prayer shall be heard of him that made him.\"\" \"A prayer out of a poor man's mouth reacheth to the ears of God, and his reproach cometh speedily.\" \"He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his maker.\"\"\nFrom this time forward, Oastler used the \"Intelligencer\" as the chief outlet for his letters. The \"Leeds Patriot\", a Radical newspaper, commented favourably on the letter and gave Oastler its support on the issue.\n'Fixby Hall Compact'\u00a0\u2013 common cause with the Radicals.\nShort Time Committees (predominantly (but not exclusively) organisations of millhands in which Radicals and trades unionists were prominent) had sprung up in the West Riding textile towns (and also in Lancashire) to secure Parliamentary legislation regulating the hours of work in textile mills (for children explicitly, and with the further aim that regulation would be by means which meant that adults worked the same hours). After Hobhouse's Bill was lost when a General Election was precipitated by defeat of the Reform Bill, a deputation from the Huddersfield 'Short Time Committee' called on Oastler at Fixby and agreed with him (the 'Fixby Hall Compact'of 19 June 1831) to combine their efforts on the issue despite fundamental differences on other political issues.\n'The Factory King'.\nHobhouse reintroduced his Bill, but a combination of the pressure of parliamentary (Reform Bill) business and determined opposition by millowner MPs and MPs lobbied by millowners meant that although an Act was passed, it had lost virtually every significant provision in the original Bill. Michael Thomas Sadler, advised by Oastler, then introduced a 'Ten-Hour Bill' for which the Short Time Committees organised mass demonstrations of support. Oastler spoke at these meetings, soon showing himself to be \"one of the most accomplished popular orators that ever addressed a large assembly of the working classes\". At a monster demonstration by West Riding textile workers at York (Easter 1832) he said \"We will have our Act, whatever Parliament will vote\"; the \"Leeds Mercury\" seized upon this as showing even less respect than the King for the judgement of Parliament, and mockingly dubbed him 'King Richard' and hence 'the Factory King', a title Oastler was happy to accept. More significantly, Oastler urged his listeners that at future elections they should work for the return of candidates supporting a ten-hour bill, whatever their other political views. Sadler's bill failed to complete its passage through the Commons before Parliament was dissolved Thornhill (Oastler's employer) had had no objection to Oastler campaigning for factory reform, but intervened when told that at Huddersfield (where no Tory was standing in the 1832 election) Oastler was working for the return of a Radical.\nAlthorp's Act (1833)- the ten-hour movement outflanked.\nSadler failed to be elected to Parliament, and Parliament decided that a Factory Commission should make a thorough investigation of the matter to provide a sound basis for any further factory legislation. The Short Time movement saw no need for further investigation and Lord Ashley\u00a0\u2013 now the champion of factory reform in the Commons\u00a0\u2013 introduced another Ten-Hour Bill without waiting for the Commission's report. The short time committees of the textile districts organised mass demonstrations for a Ten-Hour Act, the rhetoric becoming more heated (\"Tt is a question of blood against gold. Infants' blood has been sold for nought, but if we are despised now., it shall be a question of blood in another sense\" Oastler told a vast demonstration at Wibsey Low Moor at the start of July) as the aim was no longer seen to be convincing the public of the need for factory reform, but rather deterring the government from using the Commission to avoid any meaningful reform. They attempted to organise a boycott of the Commission and to ensure that wherever the Commissioners went in the textile districts they were met with large demonstrations for a Ten-Hour Bill, and against the Commissioners. Oastler was the 'centre of communication' for the organisation, and prominent in the agitation against the Commission. When the Commission's report came out, it recommended an eight-hour day for children under thirteen, with a declared aim of allowing mills to operate sixteen hours a day by a 'relay system' employing two sets of children. This addressed the issue of child labour on which the short time movement had been able to gain public sympathy without giving any restriction on adult hours of work. Despite winning a number of Parliamentary votes, Ashley was unable to secure a majority for key clauses in his Bill, and withdrew it, leaving the way open for Lord Althorp to pilot through a Factory Act in line with the Commission recommendations. \nThe 1833 Factory Act was unsatisfactory not merely to the Ten-Hour movement but to all interested parties. Members of the government had openly described Althorp's Act as 'an evil forced upon the Government'. Mill-owners (whether reconciled to the principle of state intervention or not) objected that the textile districts did not have the significant pool of unemployed children needed for a 'relay system': it was therefore virtually impossible to attempt to comply with the Act. Furthermore, mill-owner magistrates, who had been barred from hearing cases brought under the previous Factory Acts, were allowed to hear cases under the 1833 Act, which they saw no point in enforcing: only if non-compliance came to the attention of a Factory Inspector (given powers to act as a magistrate by the Act) was there any prospect of a successful prosecution\nBlackburn speech of 1836.\nOastler's agitation for a Ten-Hour Act having failed, he was temporarily swept aside in favour of a Society for Promoting National Regeneration, the brainchild of John Doherty and Robert Owen, which aimed to secure an eight-hour day by concerted strike action but failed to organise a general strike of textile workers (partly because of pre-emptive anti-union action by millowners). Another Ten-Hour Bill was now contemplated for 1836, but was pre-empted by a government Bill to weaken the existing Act by reducing the age up to which only an eight-hour day could be worked to twelve. Oastler played a prominent part in agitation against the government Bill and for the introduction of a revived Ten-Hour Bill. The government Bill was withdrawn after it secured a majority of only two at Second Reading; the campaign for a Ten-Hour Act continued, but was seriously set back by a speech Oastler made at Blackburn in September 1836. The \"Blackburn Standard\" (a friend of the Ten-Hour Bill) published only an expurgated account of the meeting at which Oastler spoke, preceding it with an editorial in which they deplored the speeches of him and his fellow orators: Such of the sentiments to which they gave utterance, as we deem safe to publish, we report at some length in other columns, but we must say, that they delivered a vast deal of empty, impudent, nonsensical, mischievous, and disgusting balderdash, which we consider it to be our duty to exclude altogether from the Standard. ... we much regret that the management of this important ... measure should have fallen into the hands of these injudicious advocates. We do not hesitate to aver that they have, in one night, done more injury to the cause of the factory operatives in this town, by the disgraceful advice which they tendered to their hearers ... than the true friends of the people can repair by the most strenuous attention for many months. It is not surprising that Christian ministers decline to join in a crusade where the leaders are utterly devoid of Christian charity, and reckless of the consequences of their violence\nThe \"Standard\" therefore did not report that Oastler had talked of teaching children to sabotage mill machinery,; this was however seized upon by his opponents such as the \"Manchester Guardian\" which urged that either 'his friends should put him under some restraint' or 'the law should interpose to end the career of wickedness which he seems disposed to run'. In a justificatory letter to the \"Guardian\" Oastler said that he was only advocating sabotage where (as at Blackburn) magistrates were denying justice to factory children by openly refusing to enforce the Factory Act. \"If after this your magistrates should refuse to listen to your complaints under the factory act and again refer you to me, bring with you your children and tell them to ask their grandmothers for a few of their old knitting needles which I will instruct them how to apply to the spindles in a way which will teach these law-defying mill owner magistrates to have respect even to 'Oastler's law* as they have wrongly designated the factory law.\" \nThis caused widespread outrage and the rupture of relationships with Ashley and Wood the \"Leeds Intelligencer\" ceased to publish his letters : John Fielden however stood by him . Oastler's health broke down at the end of 1836; a meeting at Manchester in January 1837 was told he was unable to address it as 'his exertions on behalf of the factory slave had brought him to the edge of the grave'\n'The fiend-begotten ...new Poor Law'.\n Less than a fortnight later, though, he was back in action at a mass meeting in Huddersfield, but in a new cause : delivering a speech (subsequently published under the (representative) title of Damnation! Eternal damnation to the fiend-begotten 'coarser-food', new Poor Law !) urging resistance to implementation of the 'New Poor Law'. In the preface to this speech, Oastler denounced the Poor Law Amendment Act as an unjust, unChristian measure, declaring \nThe Poor Law Amendment Act.\nAlarmed at the cost of poor relief in the southern agricultural districts of England (where in many areas it had become a semi-permanent top-up of labourers' wages\u00a0\u2013 the 'allowance system', 'Roundsman system', or 'Speenhamland system' ) Parliament had set up a Royal Commission into the operation of the Poor Laws. Its report had recommended sweeping changes:\nThe ensuing Poor Law Amendment Act set up a three-man Poor Law Commission, an 'at arms' length' quango to which Parliament delegated the power to make appropriate regulations, without making any provision for effective oversight of the Commission's doings. Local poor-rates payers still elected their local Board of Poor Law Guardians and still paid for local poor law provisions, but those provisions could be specified to the Board of Guardians by the Poor Law Commission; where they were the views of the local rate-payers were irrelevant. The Act was passed by large majorities, despite Oastler personally lobbying Tory leaders (including the Duke of Wellington) to oppose it. Oastler's objections were that the Act pursued aims dictated by political economy by un-Christian treatment of the poor (and particularly of the married poor: \"whom God hath joined together let no man part asunder\"), and to ensure this was done with consistent heartlessness was setting up an unconstitutional body. Oastler told the Duke \"if that Bill passes, the man who can produce the greatest confusion in the country will be the greatest patriot, and I will try to be that man\". The chairman of the Commission was Sir Thomas Frankland Lewis, an exact contemporary of Thornhill at Eton\nResistance to the New Poor Law.\nThe new dispensation was implemented progressively, starting with the southern counties of England, where it achieved a considerable reduction in the poor rates. Not until January 1837 were the first steps taken to introduce the system into the West Riding by setting up 'poor law unions' and electing Boards of Guardians for them. The Poor Law Boards were then to appoint a clerk to administer whatever system of relief was specified for that Union by the central Commission. The Commission intended (or said they intended) to allow the new Poor Law Boards in manufacturing areas to continue out-relief, but opponents of the New Poor Law held that best way to defend out-relief was to prevent new Poor Law Boards being established (or clerks to Poor Law Boards being appointed), since their existence would greatly facilitate the cessation of out-relief should the Commission change its mind (or not be telling the truth). Short Time Committee men played a prominent part in organising protest meetings, disruption of Poor Law Board meetings (Keighley, Huddersfield) and/or election of anti- Poor Law 'Poor Law Guardians' (Huddersfield).\nA meeting of Fixby rate-payers agreed to take no part in the election of a Poor Law Guardian; Thornhill instructed his tenants (through Oastler) that they should. Oastler passed on the instruction, but wrote back to Thornhill defending opposition to the appointment of guardians, concluding his letter \"But it is no use my writing about these matters -you cannot understand me. My living is in your hands\u00a0\u2013 my conscience is my own.\" Oastler played little active part in the resistance until May. In April\u2013May 1837, he campaigned on the Ten-Hour Bill and the Poor Law \"a gross &amp; wicked law .. if it was truth, the Bible was a lie\" at a by-election in Huddersfield, but was defeated by 50 votes by the Whig candidate.\nOastler was a leading light in a series of intimidatory pickets of meetings of the Huddersfield Guardians. Violence at the third of these (in June) went beyond anything Oastler intended or would countenance (when the guardians refused to receive a deputation, demonstrators stormed the workhouse building and dispersed the meeting; when the meeting reconvened at a local hotel stones were thrown through the windows) but the crowd ignored Oastler's appeals to disperse, and Oastler had to personally shield the parish officers. The (Tory) Huddersfield magistrates threatened to read the Riot Act. but did not do so. A fresh election was held in July (Parliament automatically being dissolved on the death of King William IV); Oastler stood again at Huddersfield, and was again defeated by 22 votes by a different Whig opponent. When Oastler fell behind in the poll, a mob attacked the hustings and polling had to be suspended: the Riot Act was read and the cavalry called out to restore order. At the subsequent West Riding hustings at Wakefield, Oastler and a contingent from Huddersfield were prominent in the fighting between Whig and anti-Whig forces in which two people died.\nAt the start of May 1838, Oastler suffered another collapse. Whilst he was recovering, Thornhill dismissed him. Thornhill's letter noted that Oastler had become steward on the basis that this was a full-time job and complained that Oastler had not attended to estate affairs as Thornhill would have wished, but did not go into further details. Despite his convalescence and his dismissal, Oastler continued his activities as a polemicist (e.g. his open letter to Earl Fitzwilliam) and an orator. Lord Howick had dismissed petitions against the New Poor Law on the grounds that they came largely from areas where the new law was not yet in operation; the true views of the agricultural labourers in the areas where it had been applied was approbation as shown by agrarian unrest being much less than in 1830. Oastler responded in a speech in Halifax in July; telling his audience that there was little point in petitioning: the agricultural labourers had petitioned and government had laughed at them; they were now arming secretly. That could only lead to assassinations; better by far to arm openly, as was their right; the government and the poor law administrators would then treat them more civilly:\n\"I would recommend you, every one, before next Saturday night, to have a brace of horse pistols, a good sword and a musket, and to hang them up on your mantelpieces (not by any means to use them). \"They\" will petition for you\"\nAs with the Blackburn speech, this alarmed and alienated moderate support.\nThe Anti-Poor Law agitation was however rapidly overtaken and supplanted as the great working-class Radical cause by the more sweeping Chartist movement, (whose constitutional program Oastler did not support); when that collapsed in 1839 (with the failure of the National Petition and a Government crackdown with many leaders arrested and charged with seditious speeches and involvement in unlawful assemblies), so did organised resistance to the New Poor Law. Many of Oastler's associates were involved in Chartism, and Oastler did not disown them: he played a prominent part in raising funds for the defence of J R Stephens; his last public campaigning for 5 years.\nImprisonment for debt.\nThe prosecution of Chartist leaders did not include Oastler because, as Lord John Russell told the House of Commons, the Anti-Poor Law agitation \"was of a nature very difficult to meet by any execution of the laws of the country; for it was not applied to any purposes for the overturning of the institutions or the laws of the country or any particular political purpose; but pretended solely to an exclusive regard for the interests of the poorer classes, and whatever could be done for their benefit.\" Nonetheless, Oastler was to spend over three years in prison.\nPrevious difficulties with Thornhill.\nBy Oastler's own account, there had been past disagreements between him and Thornhill.\nFixby was entailed, and would not be inherited by Thornhill's children (including his only son) by his first wife but by his daughter by a second marriage. \nThornhill therefore wished to maximise the profits from Fixby and use them to build up his unentailed properties (worth roughly \u00a322,000 a year) which his son could inherit. Oastler, however, administered Fixby less in accordance with Thornhill's wishes than with the former practice of Thornhill's father: he would not employ labourers at less than a living wage, nor let farms at rents too high to allow the tenant's prosperity; callers at Fixby on estate business were offered a drink, and their horses were stabled. In 1834, accusations/advice by third parties led Thornhill to dismiss his sub-agent at Calverley for dishonesty. Oastler thought this unjustified (and was aggrieved that his views had not been sought); he therefore prepared to offer his resignation. In doing so he drew up accounts which showed that the expenses he had considered necessary to maintain the good name of Fixby and of Thornhill exceeded his salary; Oastler was indebted to the estate by over \u00a32,700. Thornhill had not at the time seen this as implying any dishonesty and had refused Oastler's resignation and increased his salary (but advised greater economy in future, and secured a promissory note from Oastler for the \u00a32,700). By July 1837, despite Oastler's election campaigns and his anti-Poor Law activities, the debt was under \u00a31750.\nFrom dismissal to prison.\nOastler had previously told other anti-Poor Law campaigners that Frankland Lewis was urging Thornhill to sack him, and his dismissal was described in various sympathetic papers as \"the rewards of independent resistance of Whig tyranny\". Placards advertising a procession to pay tribute to Oastler as he left Fixby (August 1838) offended Thornhill; he wrote a letter for publication saying that Oastler had been sacked, not because of his anti-Poor Law activities, but \"because he converted my money to his own use, and paid so little attention to my concerns and his duty that the persons employed under him have cheated me\" Thornhill's letter was written at Cowes (17 August 1838) and hence without the knowledge of his legal adviser, who (once shown it) persuaded Thornhill to instead send to the papers a letter (also dated as from Cowes, 17 August) saying that Oastler had been sacked because he owed Thornhill money and was devoting his efforts to politics, rather than repaying the debt. Through the incompetence of Oastler's successor as steward of Fixby both letters were published in (different) Yorkshire papers. \"He found he had gone too far, and having by his first letter dug a pit for his reputation, he writes another by way of putting a tombstone on it\" said Oastler, but his promissory note put him at Thornhill's mercy.\nThornhill went to law for prompt payment of the full sum due; he did so in Middlesex because he thought a Yorkshire jury would be prejudiced. In January 1839 Oastler failed to have the case heard in Yorkshire; at this stage Oastler intended his defence to involve all the estate business during Oastler's stewardship, and Oastler anticipated calling about 60 Yorkshire-based witnesses. Thornhill repeatedly postponed the action, which was not heard until July 1840. After the opening statement of Thornhill's counsel, Oastler said if his honesty was not being questioned he was prepared to settle. The Lord Chief Justice assured Oastler that there was no suggestion of dishonesty (Thornhill's counsel said only there had been no suggestion of dishonesty in the material he had laid before the court); there was an agreed verdict that Oastler owed Thornhill \u00a32600. He was unable to pay this: Thornhill's lawyer indicated that any indication that Oastler was prepared to declare himself bankrupt (under the Relief of Insolvent Debtors Act) if faced with debtors' prison would avoid any move to put him there, but Oastler scorned this and was imprisoned for debt in the Fleet Prison (Dec 1840).\nFleet Papers.\nOastler's imprisonment brought reconciliation with former allies who had broken with him, and visits and gifts not only from his supporters from every class but also from political opponents who thought Thornhill's conduct oppressive. Various intercessions on his behalf with Thornhill were fruitless; to a resolution passed by a Leeds meeting Thornhill replied \"that I have no enmity towards Mr Oastler, but that after the treatment I have received from him, I cannot in justice to myself, or my family, set him at liberty, without security for his debt to me.\"\nIn prison Oastler wrote (weekly) his \"Fleet Papers\", ostensibly letters addressed to Thornhill reviewing current political affairs, published and sold for 2d per issue . This was the only means by which he could earn money, and the only way he could continue to resist the advances of 'political economy': \"I can only now aid by my pen; but I will strive to do the duty of an Englishman, and, \"whether they will hear or they will forbear,\" I will warn the people of the danger to which the \"Liberal\" schemes of the self-styled Free-trading Philosophers must eventually lead them.\". Mixed with current politics were explanations of past events in his life and accounts of visits and gifts by sympathisers and well-wishers, and of life in the Fleet. A contrast with Thornhill's lifestyle was always lurking, and sometimes made. \nOastler ransomed.\nWhen Oastler was dismissed, an 'Oastler Testimonial Fund' had been inaugurated, intended to raise enough money to provide an adequate income for Oastler. This had not been successful, and on Oastler's imprisonment transformed itself into an 'Oastler Liberation Fund'; this initially also stalled well short of its target until relaunched in the summer of 1843 by an editorial in \"The Times\", followed by fund-raising meetings held across the factory districts and reported nationally. As with the gifts to Oastler in the Fleet, donations to the liberation fund came from across the political spectrum. By January 1844, over \u00a32000 had been raised, but the debt had risen to nearly \u00a33200 and there were concerns about Oastler's health. To secure his release, wealthy supporters guaranteed the shortfall, and Oastler was released in February 1844. On Shrove Tuesday 1844, a procession and meeting to mark his liberation were held at Huddersfield; he told the meeting that he now had no animosity towards his opponents, and that violent language was no longer necessary; the press and the public now fully supported further factory legislation and reform of the New Poor Law.\nAfter prison.\nOastler, initially recuperating at a nephew's country house, was soon drawn into a series of public meetings agitating for a Ten-Hour Bill, in the aftermath of the Government asserting that millworkers no longer wished for a Ten-Hour Act and making the retention of a twelve-hour limit in the 1844 Factory Act a question of confidence. He was now only a support speaker, and his speeches kept to the less violent tone promised at his Huddersfield homecoming.\nIn July 1844, having been advised by his Liberation Committee that money was not forthcoming to support him in public life, he advertised himself in Leeds papers as \"Umpire, Arbitrator, Agent for the Purchase or Sale of Estates, and for Obtaining or Opposing Private Bills in Parliament\". He was a Leeds sharebroker in 1845, by 1846 he was working in a London stockbroking office; in 1849 he was made bankrupt. Thereafter, Oastler was discreetly supported by his friends; from 1851 he edited a periodical \"The Home\" but this was never a paying proposition and closed in 1855.\nIn the autumn of 1846 he was summoned from retirement, by the West Riding Short-Time Committee, to be the principal speaker at public meetings to demonstrate the millworkers' continuing support for a Ten-Hour Act; following this he undertook a similar speaking tour of textile areas in Scotland.\nThe Ten Hours' Act was passed in 1847, but Oastler continued to be relied upon as a spokesman for the Short Time movement, pressing for full implementation of the Act and the outlawing of the 'false relay system'; he supported the unsuccessful opposition to the 1850 'Compromise Act', accusing Lord Ashley of \"betraying the poor\". He continued to argue for Protection, and against Free Trade and the \"Manchester School\", but his appearances at Short Time meetings were now to receive congratulatory addresses, to reminisce, and to pay tribute to former colleagues in the struggle. After an 'alarming illness' at the start of 1861, he recovered sufficiently to again visit Yorkshire to see old friends, but was taken ill en route near Harrogate (8 August 1861) and died there a fortnight later. He was buried in the family vault at Kirkstall, Leeds: he had asked for a simple and private funeral, but many of his old Short Time comrades attended and at their insistence the coffin was carried by twelve factory workers.\nMemorials.\nAt the nadir of Oastler's fortunes in 1840, the \"Leeds Intelligencer\" told its readers \"Important religious, moral, and social consequences have been the fruits of his herculean labours, and it is probable that posterity will decree him a statue\". After Oastler's death a national subscription was raised for a permanent memorial to Oastler. The \"Intelligencer\", supporting this, noted that the Ten Hour Act had been so beneficial that it could not serve as that memorial. The ten-hour day was now accepted as normal and proper: consequently it was now passing from remembrance that \"the agitation in favour of it was by no means well received, and the struggle that won it was a hard one\".\nThe money to erect a statue was raised (somewhat delayed by the Cotton Famine) and the West Riding town in which the statue was to be erected was voted for by subscribers, Bradford being the overwhelming preference. The statue was unveiled in Forster Square, Bradford (in front of the railway station) on Whit Saturday 1869 by the former Lord Ashley, now Lord Shaftesbury. Church bells were rung and all places of business in Bradford were shut for the occasion. It was estimated that the preliminary procession had involved about 30,000; the crowds at the ceremony and along the procession route totalling over 100,000. The figures, sculpted by John Birnie Philip, were cast from three tons of bronze and cost \u00a31,500. A public house (previously a chapel) in Park Street Market, Brighouse, and a school in the Armley district of Leeds, West Yorkshire, also bear his name."}
{"id": "756508", "revid": "49831361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756508", "title": "Gyo Obata", "text": "Gyo Obata (\u5c0f\u5703 \u6681, February 28, 1923 \u2013 March 8, 2022) was an American architect, the son of painter Chiura Obata and his wife, Haruko Obata, a floral designer. In 1955, he co-founded the global architectural firm HOK (formerly Hellmuth, Obata + Kassabaum). He lived in St. Louis, Missouri, and worked in HOK's St. Louis office. He designed several notable buildings, including the McDonnell Planetarium and GROW Pavilion at the Saint Louis Science Center, the Independence Temple of the Community of Christ church, the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C., and the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in Springfield, Illinois.\nBiography.\nObata was born and raised in San Francisco. Due to his family's Japanese heritage, he was nearly incarcerated with other Japanese-Americans during World War II. Though his family was sent to a concentration camp, he avoided it by leaving the School of Architecture at the University of California, Berkeley, to study architecture at the School of Architecture at Washington University in St. Louis, the only university in the United States willing to accept Japanese nationals at that time. He earned his bachelor of architecture degree there in 1945.\nHe then studied under master Finnish architect Eliel Saarinen at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, receiving his master's degree in architecture and urban design in 1946.\nAfter serving in the U.S. Army from 1946 to 1947 and working as an architect in the Chicago office of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill from 1947 to 1951, Obata returned to St. Louis in 1951 to join the firm of Minoru Yamasaki (who would later design the World Trade Center towers), another Nisei architect. Four years later, in 1955, he joined architects George Hellmuth and George Kassabaum in establishing the St. Louis-based architecture firm Hellmuth, Obata and Kassabaum.\nDue in part to Obata's prowess and growing reputation, the firm achieved global renown, and Obata himself has won numerous awards for his designs. Today, HOK has more than 1,800 employees in 23 offices worldwide.\nIn 2010, Obata was featured in a book written by Marlene Ann Birkman and published by The Images Publishing Group titled, \"Gyo Obata: Architect | Clients | Reflections.\" The book features 30 of Obata's projects (and clients) spanning five decades.\nObata's design philosophy is \"to provide spaces which are not only functional, but also enhance the quality of life for those who work and live in them.\" In \"Gyo Obata: Architect | Clients | Reflections,\" he says that, \"The language that architects use to define space is daylight. Each project offers new potential for discovery, for understanding the site and program, and an opportunity to do a thoughtfully designed building that will bring meaning and enjoyment to the people who will occupy it.\"\nObata died in St. Louis, Missouri, on March 8, 2022, at the age of 99.\nProjects.\nObata's national and international projects include:\nSt. Louis projects include:\nOther projects include:"}
{"id": "756509", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756509", "title": "Lisa Scott-Lee", "text": "Lisa Scott-Lee (born 5 November 1975) is a Welsh singer from St Asaph, Wales. She is a member of the pop group Steps, formed in 1997. Scott-Lee signed a record deal with Mercury Records and launched a solo career in 2003, achieving only minor success after the release of debut single \"Lately\". She was dropped after her second solo single. She released her debut solo album \"Never or Now\" in 2007 through Concept Records.\nEarly life and education.\nLisa Scott-Lee was born on 5 November 1975 in St Asaph to parents Anthony and Janet. Her younger siblings are Andy, Anthony and Steven, who were in the group 3SL. She attended the Italia Conti Academy of Theatre Arts stage school. Her grandfather, Jason Scott Lee, was the first footballer of Chinese heritage to play for Manchester United albeit in wartime league matches. \nCareer.\n1997\u20132001: early career with Steps.\nScott-Lee is a member of the UK pop group Steps. The group, which came together in 1997 and had 14 top 5 singles in the UK, split up on Boxing Day 2001 before reforming in May 2011.\nEver since the group's break-up, rumours had been circulating that they would reunite in one form or another. In 2009, Lee Latchford-Evans revealed that the group had been approached to perform a series of concerts. He hinted that a future reunion was possible, but that \"it isn't the right time right now\".\n2002\u20132008: Solo career and \"Totally Scott-Lee\".\nScott-Lee spent a short time managing her three younger brothers, including Andy, in a group of their own called 3SL. After little success they were dropped from their label and disbanded. Scott-Lee then signed a solo recording contract with Mercury Records, releasing her debut solo single, \"Lately\", which she co-wrote, in May 2003. The song became a UK top 10 hit, peaking at number 6. On 8 September 2003, Scott-Lee released her second single (which she also co-wrote), \"Too Far Gone\", which narrowly missed out on the top 10, peaking at number 11. Mercury parted company with Scott-Lee when they feared her success as a solo artist might be limited, which left her without a record company. As a result, her album, \"Unleashed\", was cancelled, although promotional samplers had already been released.\nScott-Lee went on to be featured in the Girls of FHM music video for \"Do You Think I'm Sexy?\" in the summer of 2004, while preparing to release a new single, \"Get It On\", with Intenso Project. As both Scott-Lee and Intenso Project did not have a record deal, the music video was self-funded. Eventually Ministry of Sound picked up the song and released it on 28 November 2004. Despite numerous personal appearances, various promotional events, and a B-list placing on Capital Radio, the song peaked at number 23. The \"Get It On\" music video, however, was ranked in the FHM top 100 sexiest music videos.\nIn the summer of 2005 it was revealed that a camera crew from MTV UK had been following Scott-Lee, as well as her husband (Johnny Shentall of Hear'Say), her brother (Andy Scott-Lee), her publicist (Sean Borg), her manager (Nathan Moore), and her brother's girlfriend Michelle Heaton (of Liberty X) for nearly a year. The show, which was intended as the UK version of MTV's US hit \"\" followed Scott-Lee's attempts to revitalise her career. In the show, titled \"Totally Scott-Lee\" (originally \"Scott-Lee Unlimited\"), Scott-Lee vowed that she would quit the music industry if her next release missed the UK top 10.\nScott-Lee was signed to a small record label, Concept Records, and began recording songs for her next single. Concept chose \"Electric\" and started making plans for its release. The single had to be released on 10 October 2005 to meet with deadlines for the show, with the chart position to be revealed live on MTV on Sunday 16 October 2005. Roseann McBride, assistant to managing director Max Bloom of Concept Records went on record several times to indicate that she was against the record being released on this date, as it would have very little promotion time (5 weeks as opposed to the usual 8\u201310 weeks). The song was released as planned, but despite a television show backing her and extensive media coverage, it failed to reach the top ten, charting at number 13.\nFollowing the chart reveal Scott-Lee indicated she regretted her earlier vow, admitting she had only agreed to it to please other people and wished she had never said it.\nFollowing the failure of \"Electric\" to achieve its targeted top 10 position, plans were announced to release \"Electric\" in Japan, Australia, Germany and South Africa. In Australia, \"Electric\" spent two weeks in the Top 100, but failed to reach the Top 40. She went to South Africa and Germany to promote the single and released \"Boy on the Dancefloor\", a song from her then-unreleased album, on her website as a Christmas gift to her fans in 2005.\nOn 1 October 2006 it was announced that Scott-Lee would \"film a great new TV show for mainstream TV\" on her official website. It later emerged that the TV show in question was the second series of ITV's \"Dancing on Ice\", although this was not officially confirmed until late December 2006. Her participation in \"Dancing On Ice\" began on 20 January 2007. On 24 February 2007 she lost in the dance off, finishing in 6th place. Scott-Lee's association with \"Dancing On Ice\" continued between March and May 2007 when she took part in which toured across the UK.\nScott-Lee's first full-length solo album was \"Never or Now\". The UK digital release date was supposed to be 26 March, presumably to capitalise on her success in \"Dancing on Ice\". However, following her defeat in the sixth episode, the debut album was delayed again. It was released in South Africa by Sheer Music on 26 March 2007 and in the UK as a music download on 18 June 2007. A CD version was also released in Belgium and the Netherlands. On 16 July, the album had an import release and was confirmed by Play.com and Amazon.co.uk.\nScott-Lee appeared in the 2007 Christmas special of the Ricky Gervais comedy \"Extras\". She appeared in the Derby pantomime as 'Jack's wife' alongside her husband Johnny Shentall who played 'A Beanstalk' in 2007\u201308. In September 2008, Scott-Lee was a contestant on ITV2's flight attendant-based reality series \"CelebAir\" alongside husband Johnny. On 2 October 2008. the pair were eliminated from the show in the fifth week, after abandoning their cabin crew duties to party for two hours at Eden.\n2011\u20132022: Steps reformation.\nSteps reformed in May 2011 for a four-part documentary series on Sky Living titled \"Steps: Reunion\". The series started airing on 28 September, following an announcement of a second greatest hits album, \"The Ultimate Collection\", that was released on 10 October 2011. The album entered the charts at number one, becoming the band's third album to achieve this feat. The second series of \"Steps: Reunion\" titled \"Steps: On the Road Again\" aired on Sky Living in April 2012; the series followed the band as they embarked on their sellout 22-date UK tour. On 24 September 2012, the group confirmed they would release their fourth studio album \"Light Up The World\" on 12 November 2012, alongside a six-date Christmas tour, starting from 30 November and ending on 5 December. The group reformed for a second time on 1 January 2017 in celebration of their 20th anniversary, and later announced their fifth studio album \"Tears on the Dancefloor\", which was released in April 2017 and entered the charts at number 2. On 5 March 2017, the group confirmed the release of the new album, alongside its lead single, \"Scared of the Dark\", and a 22-date tour, Party on the Dancefloor. A deluxe edition of the album, titled , was released on 27 October.\nIn November 2017, Faye Tozer announced that the reunion was no longer just a 20th-anniversary celebration and that the group intends to continue after their 2018 Summer of Steps tour. In April 2018, Richards announced that following their summer tour, they would begin work on their sixth studio album. In February 2019, Richards announced the group would begin recording their next album during the summer months.\nOn 7 September 2020, via their social media accounts, Steps announced the release date of their album entitled \"What the Future Holds\". The album was released on 27 November of the same year, with pre-orders available from 8 September. The next day, they confirmed a new 14-date UK tour (with special guest Sophie Ellis-Bextor) starting in November 2021. The first single from the album was the Greg Kurstin-and-Sia-penned \"What the Future Holds\", released on 9 September 2020. It was followed by \"Something in Your Eyes\" on 27 October 2020. \"To the Beat of My Heart\" was released as the album's third single in January 2021.\nThe first single of \"What the Future Holds Pt. 2\" was confirmed as a reworked version of \"Heartbreak in This City\" featuring Michelle Visage.\n2023: \"Never or Now\" 20th anniversary.\nOn 27 February 2023, Scott-Lee announced an expanded deluxe version of the \"Never or Now\" studio album would be released, in celebration of twenty years since the release of her debut solo single, \"Lately\". She also performed a solo show at the Mighty Hoopla festival on 4 June 2023 as part of the celebrations. \"Never or Now\" debuted at number 24 on the UK Album Downloads Chart on 20 October 2023. On the Scottish Album Chart, the album debuted at number 39.\nPersonal life.\nScott-Lee became engaged to former Steps dancer and Hear'Say singer, Johnny Shentall in April 2001 and they married on 14 August 2004. Together, they have two children, a boy named Jaden and a girl named Star-Lily The family moved to Dubai in 2011, and in 2014 Scott-Lee and Shentall founded a performing arts school there, the Dubai Academy of Performing Arts. Scott-Lee serves as headteacher of the school."}
{"id": "756511", "revid": "20318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756511", "title": "Dimitrije Obradovic Dositheus", "text": ""}
{"id": "756512", "revid": "20318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756512", "title": "Dimitrije Dositheus", "text": ""}
{"id": "756513", "revid": "2308770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756513", "title": "Dositej Obradovi\u0107", "text": "Dositej Obradovi\u0107 (, ; 17 February 1739 \u2013 7 April 1811) was a Serbian writer, philosopher, pedagogue, translator, educational reformer, linguist and the first minister of education of Serbia. An influential protagonist of the Serbian national and cultural renaissance, he advocated Enlightenment and rationalist ideas, while remaining a Serbian patriot and an adherent of the Serbian Orthodox Church.\nLife.\nEarly life and education.\nDositej Obradovi\u0107 was born Dimitrije Obradovi\u0107, probably in 1739, in the Banat village of \u010cakovo, in the then Habsburg monarchy, now Ciacova, in present-day Romania. From an early age, he was possessed with a passion for study. Obradovi\u0107 grew up bilingual (in Serbian and Romanian) and learned classical Greek, Latin, modern Greek, German, English, French, Russian, and Italian.\nOn 17 February 1757 he became a monk in the Serb Orthodox monastery of Hopovo, in the Srem region, and acquired the name \"Dositej\" (Dositheus). He translated into Serbian many European classics, including \"Aesop's Fables\". Having devoured the contents of the monastery library, he hungered for further learning. On 2 November 1760, he left the monastery of Hopovo, bound for Hilandar, Mount Athos.\nFurther education and travel.\nIn 1761, he went to Zagreb, where he studied Latin. From 1761 to 1763, he was a teacher in a Serbian school in Kninsko Polje. For a brief period, he taught at a monastery in the Bay of Kotor before he was ordained as a priest by Vasilije Petrovi\u0107. After falling ill, he returned to teach in Dalmatia in the village of Golubi\u0107 near Knin. He then went to Corfu, where he studied Greek before going to Venice and then coming back to Dalmatia, where he became a teacher again, in Plavno. He enrolled at the University of Halle in 1782, where he studied philosophy.\nIn 1783, he transferred to the University of Leipzig and published his first work. He was a student of Johann Eberhard who himself was a disciple of Christian Wolf. More than a third of his life was spent in Austria where Obradovi\u0107 became influenced by the ideas of Joseph II and the German Enlightenment. Additionally, he was an Anglophile and influenced by English educators, seeing England as the land of spiritual freedom and modern civilization. In 1785 Obradovi\u0107 presented his books printed in Leipzig to the British Museum Library in London. These were the first modern Serbian books acquired by the British Museum Library. Besides these countries, his forty-year travel journeys across Europe and Asia Minor also took him to Greece, Hungary, Turkey, Romania, France, Russia, England, and Poland.\nLater life and death.\nAt the time of the First Serbian Uprising (1804) Obradovi\u0107 was in Italy, where he published his pivotal poem Rise O Serbia (Vostani Serbije) in honor of Kara\u0111or\u0111e Petrovi\u0107 and the insurgents. In Dositej's song, Serbia is pictured as a \u2018sleeping Beauty\u2019, asleep for centuries. The verses call upon her to wake up and give an example to her \u2018sisters\u2019, Bosnia, Herzegovina and Montenegro. In 1807 Obradovi\u0107 moved to Belgrade at the invitation of Kara\u0111or\u0111e Petrovi\u0107, to become, in the newly organized government, Serbia's first minister of education. In 1809, he founded Higher School, the first higher education institution in Serbia that later developed into a university. The school was located in a two-story building in Zajrek, one of the oldest parts of Belgrade. The building now serves as the Museum of Vuk and Dositej.\nObradovi\u0107 wrote, first individual biographies, and quickly the genre expanded to the form of biographical collection modelled on examples of Nepos, Suetonius, Plutarch, or Diogenes Laertius.\nObradovi\u0107 helped introduce to the Serbs the literature of certain western European countries. He and Vuk Karad\u017ei\u0107, whom Obradovi\u0107 influenced, are recognized as the fathers of modern Serbian literature. Because the Serbian populace often suffered famine, Obradovi\u0107 also introduced potato cultivation to Serbia.\nDositej Obradovi\u0107 died in Belgrade, Serbia, in 1811. He was honored with a large funeral procession and buried in St Michael's Cathedral. A monument to Obradovi\u0107 was erected by the Kalemegan park entrance in 1914. It was moved in 1930 to a prominent spot at the newly opened Academic Park, close to the University of Belgrade administration and governance building, where it still stands."}
{"id": "756514", "revid": "23512014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756514", "title": "Milo\u0161 Obrenovi\u0107", "text": "Milo\u0161 Obrenovi\u0107 I (; ; 18 March 1780 \u2013 26 September 1860), born Milo\u0161 Teodorovi\u0107 (; ), also known as Milo\u0161 the Great (), was the Prince of Serbia twice, from 1815 to 1839, and from 1858 to 1860. He was an eminent figure of the First Serbian uprising, the leader of the Second Serbian uprising, and the founder of the house of Obrenovi\u0107. Under his rule, Serbia became an autonomous principality within the Ottoman Empire. Prince Milo\u0161 was an autocrat, consistently refusing to decentralize power, which gave rise to a strong internal opposition. Despite his humble background, he eventually became the most affluent man in Serbia and one of the wealthiest in the Balkans, possessing estates in Vienna, Serbia and Wallachia. During his rule, Milo\u0161 bought a certain number of estates and ships from the Ottomans and was also a prominent trader.\nEarly life.\nMilo\u0161 Teodorovi\u0107 was the son of Teodor \"Te\u0161a\" Mihailovi\u0107 (died 1802) from Dobrinja, and Vi\u0161nja (died 18 June 1817). His family descended from the Bratono\u017ei\u0107i tribe. This was the second marriage of his mother Vi\u0161nja, from which also sprung Jovan (1787\u20131850) and Jevrem (1790\u20131856). From Vi\u0161nja's first marriage, with Obren Martinovi\u0107 (died 1780) from Brusnica, Milo\u0161 had half-brothers Jakov (died 1811) and Milan (died 1810), and half-sister Stana. After the death of Obren, Vi\u0161nja moved from Brusnica and married Teodor in Dobrinja.\nAlthough many historians put 1780 as the year when Milo\u0161 was born, according to foundation plaque in the wall of the Old Church in Kragujevac, his capital, he was 35 when the church was finished in 1818, implying a birth in 1782/3. After the death of his half-brother Milan, a famed revolutionary with great reputation among the people, Milo\u0161 adopted the surname Obrenovi\u0107. In official documents, his name was sometimes written Milo\u0161 Teodorovi\u0107 Obrenovi\u0107 (; ).\nFirst Serbian Uprising.\nMilo\u0161 fought in the First Serbian uprising until its very end in 1813. He was wounded in the battle for U\u017eice. His half-brother Milan also took part in the uprising, rising to become the voivode of the Rudnik district, until his death in 1810. After Milan's death, Milo\u0161 adopted the surname of his half-brother, Obrenovi\u0107. This name was the patronymic which his half-brother derived from Obren, the first name of his own father (Milo\u0161's step-father). After the rebellion collapsed, Milo\u0161 was among the few of its leaders that remained in Serbia to face the returning Ottomans.\nInterlude.\nAfter the suppression of the First Serbian Uprising, Grand Vizier Hurshid Pasha sent his commander Ser\u010desma to the still rebellious parts of Serbia with a large army to return the Serbs under Ottoman suzerainty and ensure them of their rights. Ser\u010desma went to the Rudnik and \u010ca\u010dak nahiyas where he knew \"vojvoda\" Milo\u0161 Obrenovi\u0107 held out and had him surrender his weapons at the Takovo church, with Ser\u010desma returning all but his sabre (to give to Hurshid as a token), as a sign of trust in him and his rule over his people in the area, and other commanders followed suit.\nSer\u010desma appointed Latif Agha from Sli\u0161ane the \"mutesellim\" (mayor) of \u010ca\u010dak, and A\u0161in-beg the \"mutesellim\" of Brusnica. Milo\u0161 befriended A\u0161in-beg. After completing his tasks, Ser\u010desma took Milo\u0161 with him to Belgrade before Hurshid Pasha, who recognized him as governor of the Rudnik nahiya. Shortly after this, Hurshid left the Belgrade Pashalik and appointed his \"keth\u00fcda\" Darendeli Ali Pasha as Vizier. Darendeli promoted Milo\u0161 to governor of the Kragujevac and Po\u017eega nahiyas, as well. Darendeli was soon replaced with Sulejman Pasha Skopljak, who didn't follow Hurshid's and Darendeli's acceptable holding towards Serbs, but instead disarmed and extorted them and sent the army into Serb areas to be fed, an administration in the likes of the Dahije. The Ottoman army brought plague into Serbia, and this, together with instances of murder, resulted in a rebellion led by Had\u017ei-Prodan.\nSecond Serbian Uprising.\nIn April 1815, Prince Milo\u0161 organized and led the Second Serbian uprising. After defeating the Turks, and Napoleon's defeat in Russia, the Turks agreed to the terms of the agreement from 1815. After the killing of Kara\u0111or\u0111e Petrovi\u0107, in 1817, Obrenovi\u0107 became the leader of the Serbs. As a result of the agreement, Serbia gained some autonomy, but remained under Ottoman sovereignty. Milo\u0161 Obrenovi\u0107 was left in power as its absolute ruler.\nBetween the end of 1828 and the autumn of 1830, Prince Milo\u0161 created a so-called \"legislative commission\" to translate the Code Napol\u00e9on into Serbian and codify the laws and customs of the country. After discussing the commission, Milo\u0161 invited two distinguished legal specialists to come from Hungary to prepare a more suitable criminal and civil code of laws for Serbia. They were Vasilije Lazarevi\u0107, \"B\u00fcrgermeister\" (mayor) of Zemun, and Jovan Had\u017ei\u0107, lawyer, poet, and member of the municipal senate of Novi Sad.\nIn January 1831, Prince Milo\u0161 informed a great national assembly that he had obtained an imperial edict from the Sultan ending all direct obligations of Serbian peasants to their former Turkish lords, guaranteeing Ottoman recognition of Serbian autonomy in most matters of internal administration, and offering Serbia the prospect of territorial aggrandizement, as well as the express right to institute schools, courts, and a governmental administration of her own. The Sultan's decrees of 1830 and 1833 expanded the same rights to a larger territory, and made Serbia a sovereign principality, with Milo\u0161 Obrenovi\u0107 as hereditary prince. A Metropolitanate of Serbia was established in Belgrade as an autonomous unit of the Patriarchate of Constantinople. Russia's status as the guarantor of Serbia's autonomy was also recognized.\nReign.\nThe supporters of the rule of law often rebelled against Milo\u0161's government. Following one such rebellion, he agreed to adopt a constitution, the \"Sretenje\" (or Candlemas) Constitution of 1835. The move was opposed by neighboring Austria, the ruling Ottoman Empire and Russia. It is believed that the three great empires saw the constitution as a danger to their own autocratic systems of government. Metternich's Austria particularly ridiculed the fact that Serbia had its own flag and foreign ministry. Milo\u0161 abolished the constitution at the demand of Russia and Turkey, and it was replaced by the \"Turkish\" Constitution of 1838.\nMilo\u0161 abdicated in 1839 in favor of his sons\u2014Milan, who died a few weeks later, and Mihailo, who then became prince. Mihailo was deposed in 1842, and the family was out of power until 1858, when it returned with Milo\u0161 restored as prince for the last two years of his life.\nThanks to his good contacts during his stay in Vienna, Johann Strauss II composed the \"Serben-Quadrille\" intended for Serbian balls.\nLegacy.\nMilo\u0161 Obrenovi\u0107 was given the epithet \"the Great\". He was proclaimed \"Father of the Fatherland\" by the National Assembly.\nMarriage and children.\nIn 1805, Milo\u0161 married Ljubica Vukomanovi\u0107 (September 1785 \u2013 Vienna, 26 May 1843). The couple had eight children whose names are known. It is speculated that Ljubica had other pregnancies that resulted in miscarriages, stillbirths, or children who died shortly after birth, with some sources giving a number as high as 17 pregnancies.\nWith mistress Jelenka, he had a son who died in infancy:"}
{"id": "756517", "revid": "45215721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756517", "title": "Edward O'Brien", "text": "Edward, Ed, Eddie or Ted O'Brien may refer to:"}
{"id": "756518", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756518", "title": "Edward J. H. O'Brien", "text": ""}
{"id": "756522", "revid": "57939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756522", "title": "Edward Joseph Harrington O'Brien", "text": "Edward Joseph Harrington O'Brien (December 10, 1890 \u2013 February 24, 1941) was an American writer, poet, editor and anthologist.\nAs Edward J. O'Brien, he created a series of annual anthologies containing his selection of the previous year's best short stories by U.S. authors, \"The Best American Short Stories\" (originally \"The Best Short Stories of 1915\", and so on). In that he was succeeded by Martha Foley, who continued the work until her own death in 1977 without a great change in format.\nHe went to live in Europe in 1919. He married his first wife, English writer Romer Wilson, in 1923. Two years after her death in 1932, he married German writer Ruth Gorgel, who survived him.\nHe died at his home in Gerrards Cross, England. The cause of death was heart failure. At the time, he was the European story editor for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's England studios."}
{"id": "756532", "revid": "99667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756532", "title": "Lawrence F. O'Brien", "text": ""}
{"id": "756533", "revid": "51972200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756533", "title": "Maadi", "text": "Maadi ( ) is a leafy and once suburban district in the Southern Area of Cairo, Egypt, on the east bank of the Nile about upriver from downtown Cairo. The modern extensions north-east and east of Maadi, New Maadi and Zahraa al-Maadi are administratively part of the Basatin district.\nThe Nile in Maadi is paralleled by the Corniche, a waterfront promenade and the main road north into Cairo. There is no bridge across the Nile at Maadi; the nearest one is located at El Mounib along the Ring Road (Tarik El-Da'eri, ) on the way north to the downtown.\nMaadi's population was estimated to be 85,000 according to the 2017 census. The district is popular with expatriates as well as Egyptians and is home to many embassies, as well as major international schools, sporting clubs, and cultural institutions such as the Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt and the national Egyptian Geological Museum.\nName.\n\"Maadi\" is the plural form of the word ( ), which means \"ferry\"; hence, el-Maadi literally means \"The ferries\". The story goes that the name comes from a ferry crossing in the area where ferries carried people from the east side of the Nile to the west.\nHistory.\nMaadi today stands on the site of a town that has turned out to be a significant predynastic, Ancient Egyptian archaeological site that includes artifacts from the Maadi-Buto culture, founded ca. 3500 B.C. Building activity in the area has destroyed some archaeologically sensitive places.\nIn Middle Ages the area of Maadi became a Coptic monastic region comprising \"Deir at-Tin\" (, ) and \"Deir al-Adawiya\" (, ).\nMaadi traces its modern history to 1904, when the railway between Cairo to the north and Helwan to the south was built. This, in combination with land speculation by the Mosseri cousins and city planning by Alexander Adams, gave rise to a new town. Construction was originally limited to the area adjacent to the railway, but eventually spread west to the Nile. Also, a large British army camp was built east of the railway.\nThe town planning was done in 1905 by a Canadian retired officer, Captain Alexander J. Adams. His vision led to the wide streets and large villas still seen in Maadi today. There were very strict rules associated with residential development in Maadi with regards to the size of houses, how much of the property could be occupied by the house and how much had to be left for the garden, and the size of the sidewalks. Even window shutters had prescribed colours. Other regulations included wireless radio noise control after 22:00 and fines for not maintaining gardens properly.\nThe world's first solar thermal power station was built in Maadi.\nAn example of British colonial life in Maadi may be found in \"The house at Maadi\", a short story by Gerald Bullett from his collection \"The street of the eye\" (1923).\nSecond World War.\nDuring the period between 1940 and 1945, Maadi had an important role in the Military of New Zealand during World War II.\nThe Divisional Cavalry Regiment disembarked on 14 February 1940 and entrained for the New Zealand base camp at Maadi. In total around 76,000 members of the 2nd New Zealand Expeditionary Force trained at a camp near Maadi at the base of the desert slopes of Wadi Degla and Tel al-Maadi. During that time this area belonged to the Delta Land Company which created Maadi in 1907. The rocky plateau was leased to the New Zealand Military Forces, and for the next six years it became the central depot and training area for 2\u00a0NZEF in the Middle East.\nA British Army interrogation centre was also located in Maadi. In July 1942, at the height of the Western Desert Campaign, two German spies revealed under questioning that they had been using a copy of Daphne du Maurier's \"Rebecca\", found among their possessions, as a codebook for secret, coded radio transmissions. Their equipment, stored on a houseboat on the River Nile, had been examined by a young signals officer from the Egyptian Army, future President of Egypt Anwar Sadat.\nPost-1952 revolution.\nFollowing the 1952 revolution (which ended the British occupation of the Suez Canal) and the 1956 Suez Crisis, in which Britain, France and Israel launched an invasion of Egypt to regain control of the canal, British and French expatriates living in Maadi and elsewhere were forced to leave by the Egyptian government. As a result, some of their institutions, such as St John's Anglican Church, were taken over and run temporarily by other nationalities.\nAdministrative divisions and population.\nMaadi is a district in the Southern Area of Cairo, and is subdivided into five shiakhas (census blocks).\nIn the 2017 census Maadi had a total population of 108,575 people spread over the five shiakhas as follows:\nMaadi today.\nThe oldest area in Maadi is El Sarayat, composed mostly of villas and low rise buildings. It is the most affluent part of Maadi along with the adjacent Degla area. These two areas are recognizable by the high number of roundabouts, quiet atmosphere and greenery.\nThere are many flats in Maadi, mostly in lowrise buildings. There are several highrises along the Corniche by the river, as well as in the newer, eastern part of Maadi, known as Degla.\nThe new Maadi areas include El-Laselky St. and the Autostrad, as well as Masaken El Arays, Saqr Kuraish and the houses of the Kuwaiti company, and El Basatin El Sharkya. which is between Saqr Kuraish and the houses of the Kuwait company. It is characterized by the large number of oil companies, most notably the Gulf of Suez Oil Company, as well as some other companies.\nThe Arab region is also the most popular areas in Maadi and the Arab Maadi which is available from shops and crafts and various means of transport and its location, which connects all areas of Maadi.\nMaadi is the highest densely populated district in Greater Cairo, and much of it is inhabited by well-to-do Egyptians, as well as expatriates, many of whom are connected with embassies, ambassadorial residences and international corporations located in Maadi. The Cairo office for the USAID is also located in Maadi.\nMany streets in Maadi continue to have speed bumps as a traffic calming measure.\nAtmosphere.\nMaadi has a reputation for being green, quieter and more relaxed than urban Cairo. In some parts of Maadi, most notably around Cairo American College, there is virtually no traffic noise. The abundant greenery bears little resemblance to most of the crowded areas seen in urban Cairo. This reputation is true of the original core of Maadi and Degla; however, outlying developments such as \"New Maadi\" have brought in the same treeless neighborhoods and mundane architecture as found in much of the rest of Cairo's metropolitan sprawl.\nEconomy and retail.\nAlong with its affluent residents, Maadi is home to many major restaurants, outlets and chains as well as a variety of high-end clothing shops, and other retail businesses, many of which are located along the locally famous \"Road 9\", Nasr st, or new Maadi as well as Maadi's original \"downtown\" located just south of the Maadi Metro stop on the east side of the track. Road 9 still remains a hub for both locals and expats with its diverse dining options as well as coffee shops and even bookstores.\nTaisei Corporation has its North Africa office in Maadi.\nTransportation.\nMaadi is served by the Cairo Metro's Line 1, which has now taken over the Cairo-to-Helwan railway. There are three stops in Maadi \u2013 from north to south: Hadayek El Maadi, Maadi and Sakanat (Thakanat) El Maadi. Further metro construction in Maadi is foreseen, especially related to Line 6, but nothing is beyond the proposal stage as yet.\nEgyptian National Railways also operates a line through Maadi, although it is strictly a freight line. There is no longer any passenger service; the station is now closed.\nCulture.\nCultural life in Maadi is geared to a great extent towards serving the large expatriate and affluent, bilingual Egyptian populations. For expatriates, Maadi offers a variety of community activities: religious institutions (many churches and a synagogue), amateur theatre groups, sporting clubs, adult courses, and other interest groups. The Maadi Sporting Club, for example, has served the local expat and Egyptian communities since 1921. It is also associated with the Maadi Sporting &amp; Yacht Club by the Nile. Maadi has also become a popular place for foreigners to study Arabic, as the suburb now hosts a number of local language schools.\nCultural venues include the new Egyptian Geological Museum and the large Maadi Library.\nCultural life, locally, largely revolves around dining out and shopping. In addition to numerous Western restaurant chains and caf\u00e9s, Maadi offers a variety of international cuisine. The most popular places for westerners to shop at \"local\" stores is along Road 9. There are also international and multilingual bookshops selling foreign newspapers and magazines catering to Maadi's multi-ethnic population.\nEducational institutions.\nMaadi has a variety of public and private schools. Here are some international schools in Maadi:\nSport.\nDuring World War II members of the 2nd New Zealand Expeditionary Force based at Maadi Camp competed in regattas on the Nile against local Egyptian rowing clubs. At a regatta held on 20 November 1943 the Maadi Camp Rowing Club \"Kiwi\" oarsmen beat the Cairo River Club by 11 points to six to win the Freyberg Cup, which they then gifted to the competitors. In return, as a token of friendship, Youssef Bahgat presented the Kiwis with a cup.\nYoussef Bahgat's cup was offered to the NZARA (now NZRA) as a trophy for an annual boys' eight-oared race between secondary schools and was brought to New Zealand at the end of the war. Renamed the Maadi Cup it was first raced for in 1947 at Wanganui where it was won by Mount Albert Grammar School. The Maadi Cup gained its native timber pyramid-shaped base from Mt Albert Grammar's woodwork master, Jack Jenkin, in 1951.\nThe Maadi Sporting Club and Yacht, founded in 1920 by British expatriates who mainly worked at the Delta Real Estate Company, today offers a range of sports, such as Tennis, Football, Swimming, Squash, handball, hockey, Judo, Table Tennis, Sailing, and Rowing.\nVictory College is no longer the home of a men's and women's softball league; softball has not been played there since 2015.\nEmbassies.\nThere are a number of embassies in Maadi: "}
{"id": "756534", "revid": "47713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756534", "title": "Sea grass", "text": ""}
{"id": "756537", "revid": "44020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756537", "title": "Lawrence Francis O'Brien", "text": ""}
{"id": "756538", "revid": "20151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756538", "title": "William Occam", "text": ""}
{"id": "756540", "revid": "47713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756540", "title": "Color burst", "text": ""}
{"id": "756541", "revid": "49950315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756541", "title": "Achille Occhetto", "text": "Achille Leone Occhetto (; born 3 March 1936) is an Italian politician. He served as the last secretary-general of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) between 1988 and 1991, and was the first leader of the Democratic Party of the Left (PDS), the parliamentary socialist successor of the PCI, from 1991 to 1994.\nEarly life and career.\nOcchetto was born in Turin. He served as secretary of the Italian Communist Youth Federation, to which he had belonged starting from 1953, from 1963 to 1966. Subsequently, he was the regional secretary of the PCI in Sicily, where he distinguished himself for his war against any kind of mafia.\nIn 1986, Occhetto was appointed as national coordinator of the PCI and became its secretary in 1988, succeeding Alessandro Natta. Under his leadership, the party witnessed the collapse of both the Berlin Wall and the Soviet Union. He responded by declaring the Communist state experience over, and persuaded the PCI to dissolve and refound itself as a democratic socialist party, the PDS. This political shift, known in Italian politics as the \"Svolta della Bolognina\" (the name derives from the celebration of a partisan battle in World War II), during which he announced that the PCI would change its name, logo, and orientation, was accepted by approximately 70% of the members at the 20th National Congress held on 8 February 1991.\nIn 1994, Occhetto challenged and was defeated by Silvio Berlusconi in the 1994 Italian general election, leading the Alliance of Progressives; because of this loss, he resigned as party secretary. He returned to politics in the 2004 European Parliament election in Italy, being elected to the European Parliament on a joint ticket with anti-corruption campaigner Antonio Di Pietro; he immediately resigned and was replaced by Giulietto Chiesa. After the 2006 Italian general election, he returned to the European Parliament by taking up one of the seats vacated by an elected deputy, and sat as an Independent member of the Party of European Socialists group. In 2009, he joined the new left-wing formation Left Ecology Freedom. He is an atheist.\nPersonal life.\nOcchetto was married to the activist and former actress Elisa Kadigia Bove, with whom he had two sons, Malcolm and Massimiliano (both born in Sicily); he was later married to fellow party member Aureliana Alberici."}
{"id": "756543", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756543", "title": "Rio Hondo (California)", "text": "The Rio Hondo (Spanish: \"R\u00edo Hondo\", meaning \"Deep River\") is a tributary of the Los Angeles River in Los Angeles County, California, approximately long. As a named river, it begins in Irwindale and flows southwest to its confluence in South Gate, passing through several cities (though not the city of Los Angeles). Above Irwindale, its main stem is known as Santa Anita Creek, which extends to another northwards into the San Gabriel Mountains where the source, or headwaters, of the river are found.\nBackground.\nThe Rio Hondo has sometimes been described as a second channel of the San Gabriel River. For much of its length, the rivers flow parallel to each other about two miles (3\u00a0km) apart. Both rivers pass through the Whittier Narrows, a natural gap in the hills which form the southern boundary of the San Gabriel Valley. Here, both rivers are impounded by the Whittier Narrows Dam, which the Army Corps of Engineers describes as, \"the central element of the Los Angeles County Drainage Area (LACDA) flood control system\". During major storms, the outlet works at Whittier Narrows Dam can direct water to either channel, or runoff can be stored.\nThe Rio Hondo and San Gabriel River have both been part of a revitalization program called the Emerald Necklace. The goal of this program is to create a \"necklace\" of parks and reclaimed wild spaces with the two rivers. They are connected by a narrow strip in Irwindale and by Whittier Narrows to give them the appearance of a necklace if viewed from above. The project garnered broad support from organizations such as the Sierra Club along with the governments of the many cities the rivers pass through.\nMost of the Rio Hondo is a concrete-lined channel to serve its primary flood control function, but in two places the river flows over open ground: the Peck Road Water Conservation Park, and the Whittier Narrows Recreation Area. Large spreading grounds for water conservation surround much of the river, and its bike paths are very popular.\nThe river passes through the location of the Battle of Rio San Gabriel, fought on January 8, 1847, and which resulted in a U.S. victory. Although the battle was actually fought on the west bank of the present-day Rio Hondo near where it is crossed by Washington Boulevard, the battle is named after the San Gabriel, which at that time flowed along these banks. A flood in 1867 caused the San Gabriel to change course, which it retains at present. The old San Gabriel was renamed the Rio Hondo after this flood. In Downey, California, the Rio Hondo was once known as the \"Old River\", because it was the old course of the San Gabriel River. The Old River School was named for it, and Old River School Road was named for the school. The \"New River\" is the present course of the San Gabriel River.\nLegacy.\nThe Rio Hondo College and Rio Hondo Preparatory School were named after the river.\nIn what is now the Bosque del Rio Hondo Natural Area, Marrano Beach was born on the riverfront property of El Rancho de Don Daniel, a Mexican land grant from the nineteenth century that had belonged the Repetto-Alvarado family, a prominent family of California land owners. El Rancho de Don Daniel encompassed riparian wetlands and ponds surrounding the Rio Hondo, which flowed year-round, and the seasonal Mission Creek. With few opportunities for respite after toiling in the fields, Mexican-American residents of the local barrios cultivated recreational lifestyles around this section of the river and embraced it as a bucolic resource for community and family activities.\nParks and recreation.\nThe Rio Hondo River Trail is a multi-use trail that runs parallel to Rio Hondo through the San Gabriel Valley. The northern end starts along the reservoir at the Peck Road Water Conservation Park and continues along the channel to Whittier Narrows Recreation Area. The trail is 15.6 miles long. Allowed uses include hiking, mountain biking, horseback riding and walking dogs on leash. There is also bird and wildlife watching.\nCrossings.\nFrom mouth to source (year built in parentheses):"}
{"id": "756544", "revid": "51470478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756544", "title": "Punsalmaagiin Ochirbat", "text": "Punsalmaagiin Ochirbat (; 23 January 1942 \u2013 17 January 2025) was a Mongolian politician who served as the first president of Mongolia from 1990 to 1997. He was the first president to be elected by direct popular vote.\nEarly life and career.\nOchirbat was born on 23 January 1942 in T\u00fcdevtei district, Zavkhan Province. His father is from Govi-Altai Province. He adopted his mother's name \"Punsalmaa\" after his father died in 1947. From 1951 to 1960, he attended school in Ulaanbaatar and then studied at the Leningrad Higher School of Mining, graduating in 1965 with a degree in mining engineering. That same year he returned to Ulaanbaatar and joined the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party.\nIn 1967, Ochirbat was named Chief Engineer at the Sharyn Gol coal mine in Darkhan-Uul Province before becoming deputy Minister of Mining and Geology in 1972. In 1976, he became a deputy in the People's Great Khural, a member of the MPRP Central Committee, and was concurrently promoted to full Minister of Mining and Geology. In 1985, he was appointed Chairman of the State Commission for Foreign Economic Relations and then became Minister of Foreign Economic Relations and Supplies when the commission was elevated to ministry status in 1987.\n1990 Democratic Revolution in Mongolia.\nOchirbat was named Chairman of the Presidium (titular head of state) of the People's Great Khural on 21 March 1990 following the resignation of Jambyn Batm\u00f6nkh and other government leaders in the wake of the 1990 Democratic Revolution. He was re-elected to the People's Great Khural in July 1990 parliamentary elections and then chosen by Khural members for the newly created position of President of the Mongolian People's Republic. The new Constitution of 1992 changed the official name of the country to Mongolia and Ochirbat's official title to \"President of Mongolia and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces\". The new constitution also set new presidential elections, the first to be decided by direct popular vote, for the following year, 1993.\nPresidential term.\nAlthough Ochirbat strongly advocated policies of rapid national revitalisation and economic reform to break the country from its socialist past and adopt capitalism by the year 2000, he had a reputation for flexibility and willingness to compromise and his persuasiveness helped diffuse confrontations and political crises in the lead up to the first free elections in June 1993. Nevertheless, ideological splits within the MPRP lead the party leadership to reject Ochirbat as their presidential candidate and instead nominate hardliner Lodongiin T\u00fcdev, editor in chief of the communist newspaper \"\u00dcnen\". Sensing an opportunity, a coalition of opposition parties, including the National Democrats and Social Democratic party, nominated Ochirbat as their candidate. On June 6, 1993, Ochirbat soundly defeated Tudev, winning 57.8 percent of the vote to become the first president ever elected by popular vote in Mongolia.\nOchirbat's term in office was beset by a series of political and economic crises. By the end of 1993, Ochirbat had become a harsh critic of government's failure to address the country's worsening economic situation. The country suffered food and energy shortages and high inflation. Ochirbat accused the government of not meeting its social welfare obligations. He was also critical of the Mongolian Intelligence services for failing to prevent the rise of transnational organised crime in Mongolia. He blamed over burdensome local and central bureaucracies for blocking faster economic improvement and called for reducing the overall size of the bureaucracy and speeding up privatization of government owned assets. By 1995 only 19.2% of economy had been privatised.\nWhen in March 1994 opposition parties withdrew from parliament, Ochirbat publicly called for a protection of the rights of the minority parties and accused the ruling MPRP of exploiting the media to their advantage by limiting press coverage of parliament. He also supported reforms to election law to open elections to all parties in advance of parliamentary elections in 1996. In 1994, he vetoed a parliamentary decree to promote Cyrillic script in Mongolia and delay introduction of classical script.\nIn foreign affairs, Ochirbat called for a re-orientation of Mongolian foreign policy to broaden international cooperation with all nations, especially with Mongolia's two powerful neighbours China and Russia. He rejected the transport and stationing of weapons of mass destruction in Mongolia, and declared Mongolia a nuclear free zone. In 1994, Ochirbat undertook official visits to South and Southeast Asia, signed cooperation agreements with India and Laos, and obtained financial assistance from Thailand to address the food shortage crisis. Ochirbat was the first Mongolian leader ever to officially visit the United States as well as the first Mongolian head of state in 30 years to visit Beijing, although relations with China suffered in autumn of 1995 when workers at the Mongolian embassy in Beijing discovered electronic bugs that had presumably been in place more than 10 years. \n1997 presidential election.\nOchirbat again ran for president in the May 1997 election, but faced a Mongolian public unhappy with the economic dislocation caused by the fast pace of reforms. The country was racked by high unemployment, 30 percent inflation, widespread shortages of foodstuffs and energy supplies and a falling GDP. According to the World Bank, one third of population was living in poverty. Winning only 29 percent of the vote, Ochirbat lost the election to the chairman of the MPRP Natsagiin Bagabandi who had pledged to try to slow down the Government's radical reforms.\nAfter politics.\nAfter the election, Ochirbat left Mongolian politics and founded the \"Ochirbat Foundation\", a non-profit, non Governmental organisation that focused on poverty alleviation and self-sufficiency, environmental, and education programs. In 2000 he became Director of the Center for Ecology and Sustainable Development at Mongolian University of Science and Technology. In 2005 he was appointed Member of the Constitutional Court of Mongolia and re-appointed in 2010.\nPersonal life and death.\nOchirbat was married to Sharav Tsevelmaa and had two children.\nOchirbat died on 17 January 2025, at the age of 82. Following his death, Mongolia\u2019s current President, Ukhnaa Khurelsukh, issued a decree declaring a period of national mourning from January 24 to January 25, 2025.\nAwards.\nOchirbat was the recipient of several awards and medals, including; Order of Chinggis Khan, Order of the Polar Star, Honoured medal of labour, Medal of the 50th, 60th, 80th anniversary of the People's Revolution, Medal of Military Force, Medal of the 800th Anniversary of the foundation of the Great Mongolian State, and Medal of the 20th Anniversary of the Democratic Revolution."}
{"id": "756545", "revid": "43283345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756545", "title": "Eugenio de Ochoa", "text": "Eugenio de Ochoa Montel (19 April 1815 \u2013 28 February 1872) was a Spanish author, writer, and translator."}
{"id": "756549", "revid": "47713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756549", "title": "Polyethyleneterephthalate", "text": ""}
{"id": "756550", "revid": "29615425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756550", "title": "Twist ending", "text": ""}
{"id": "756551", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756551", "title": "Muppet newscaster", "text": ""}
{"id": "756553", "revid": "46469420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756553", "title": "Paul Davenport", "text": "Paul Theodore Davenport, (born December 24, 1946) was the tenth president of the University of Alberta and ninth president of the University of Western Ontario.\nBorn and raised in Summit, New Jersey, he graduated magna cum laude from Stanford University in 1969 with a BA in economics. He moved to Canada and earned an MA and Ph.D in economics from the University of Toronto.\nFrom 1973 until 1989, he taught economics at McGill University and from 1986 to 1989, he was Vice Principal for Planning &amp; Computer Services. He served as president of the University of Alberta from 1989 until 1994, and became president of the University of Western Ontario on July 1, 1994. Davenport's tenure as President of the University of Alberta was tumultuous. Several years into his term, during a period of tight provincial budgets, he sought to close the Faculty of Dentistry and drop the Football program. These controversial proposals proved unpopular and brought resistance on many fronts, including that of the university's Board of Governors, and he was not offered a second term.\nHe has honorary degrees from the University of Alberta (1994), the University of Toronto (2000), and the International University of Moscow (2002). He was made a Chevalier de la L\u00e9gion d'honneur in 2001, one of only a few foreigners to be awarded this honour. He was also named an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2002. Among UWO students, especially the student newspaper The Gazette, he was often referred to as \"the French knight.\"\nHe is a member of the economics department at UWO and continues to supervise theses and publish articles. His term ended 2009, making him only the third president of Western to serve longer than ten years. He was succeeded by Amit Chakma.\nDavenport is the chair of the board of governors of the University of Rwanda, and is also a member of Rwandan president Paul Kagame's Presidential Advisory Council."}
{"id": "756556", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756556", "title": "Multi member plurality system", "text": ""}
{"id": "756558", "revid": "48513863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756558", "title": "Pi Puppids", "text": "The pi Puppids are a meteor shower associated with the comet 26P/Grigg-Skjellerup. The meteoroid streams approach the Sun at around 37 km/s and have to overtake Earth that is orbiting the Sun at 30 km/s, resulting in atmospheric entry at a relatively slow 15 km/s.\nThe meteor stream is viewable around April 24 but only in years around the parent comet's perihelion date, the next being in 2023. However, in 1999 the planet Jupiter perturbed the comet's perihelion to beyond Earth's orbit, and it is uncertain how strong the shower will be in the future.\nThe pi Puppids get their name because their radiant appears to lie in the constellation Puppis, at around right ascension 112 degrees and declination \u221245 degrees. This made them only visible to southern observers.\nThey were discovered in 1972 and have been observed about every 5 years - at each perihelion passage of the comet - but often at very low rates per hour.\n2019.\nWith a large error bar, the Pi Puppids may have briefly reached a Zenithal hourly rate of around 380 on 17 April 2019. Comet 26P/Grigg-Skjellerup had come to perihelion in October 2018."}
{"id": "756563", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756563", "title": "Monarchs of Naples and Sicily", "text": ""}
{"id": "756569", "revid": "40808726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756569", "title": "Struga", "text": "Struga ( ; , ) is a town and popular tourist destination situated in the south-western region of North Macedonia, lying on the shore of Lake Ohrid. The town of Struga is the seat of Struga Municipality.\nName.\nThe name Struga was first mentioned in the 11th century. It is of Slavic origin. and means a \"river bed\".\nThe ancient name of the city is Enchalon (\u0395\u03b3\u03c7\u03b1\u03bb\u03ce\u03bd), the ancient Greek word for eel, which may be related to the Illyrian Enchele tribe that was known to live in the region. According to E. Hamp, a connection with Albanian \u2019ngjal\u00eb\u2019 makes it possible that the name Enchele was derived from the Illyrian term for eels, which may have been anciently related to Greek and simply adjusted to the Greek pronunciation. In Polybius the word 'Enchele' is written with a voiceless aspirate \"kh\", \"Enchelanes\", while in Mnaseas it was replaced with a voiced \"ng\", \"Engelanes\", the latter being a typical feature of the Ancient Macedonian and northern Paleo-Balkan languages.\nHistory.\nIn ancient times, the Lake Ohrid region, including Enchalon (ancient name of modern Struga) was inhabited by the Illyrian Enchele and Dassareti tribes. The Via Egnatia ran through the Lake Ohrid region, and is believed to have passed west of Enchalon.\nEtymologist Qemal Murati believes that the name Strug\u00eb-a was first used as the name of a village; this name was used in a document of Tsar Dusan in the 14th century in the form of Struga. Later, in the 16th-17th centuries, the Codex of Slep\u00e7an, the name 'Strugi' was used.\nIn the 16th century the city was visited by the Venetian Ambassador Lorenzo Bernardo who described it as a city in Bulgaria which was more akin to a small village. He describes the town as an important destination for wheat shipments and a town with fertile plains and valleys, and he speaks highly of the local eel and trout.\nStruga was visited by Henry Fanshawe Tozer in his travels in the Ottoman Empire, who spoke highly of the region and the Ohrid Lake which he compared to Italian lakes and to Biblical sites such as the Sea of Galilee, he considered Struga to be a head-quarters of fishery in European Turkey and that the fishery in Struga was property of the Ottoman Sultan who sublet it to locals for a large sum, he spoke highly of the endemic Ohrid trout. According to him the marshes in the region were turned into a habitable region by tzar Samuel of Bulgaria at the time when he made the city of Ohrid Bulgarian capital. He visited a large local Bulgarian school and mentioned the admiration that the Byzantine princess Anna Comnena had for the hundred of channels, embankments and watercourses in the city.\nIn the late 19th and early 20th century, Struga was part of the Manastir Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire.\nStruga is the home-city of the Miladinov brothers poets who played a crucial part in the Bulgarian national revival and in whose honor the Struga Poetry Evenings are held in the city. Struga was also the birthplace for a number of IMARO revolutionaries such as Hristo Matov.\nStruga was the birthplace in 1865 Ibrahim Temo, who would go on to be a doctor and one of the founders of the Ottoman reform movement known as the Committee of Union and Progress.\nStruga was part of the Socialist Federative Republic of Yugoslavia since 1945 as part of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia until the 1991 Macedonian independence referendum when Macedonia peacefully seceded from the federation.\nGeography.\nStruga is located in an open valley on Lake Ohrid. The Black Drin river (Crn Drim) starts at the lake and divides the city.\nDemographics.\nDuring the 16th century, Struga was located in the Sanjak of Ohrid of the Ottoman Empire. It was registered as a Christian village in the Nahiya of Ohrid with 184 Christian families, 20 unmarried men and 36 widows, as well as 8 Muslim families.\nIn statistics gathered by Vasil Kanchov in 1900, Struga was inhabited by 4,570 people, consisting of 3,000 Christian Bulgarians, 1,000 Turks, 350 Muslim Albanians and 220 Romanis. The Bulgarian researcher Vasil Kanchov wrote in 1900 that many Albanians declared themselves as Turks. In Struga, the population that declared itself Turkish \"was of Albanian blood\", but it \"had been Turkified after the Ottoman invasion, including Skanderbeg\", referring to Islamization. Jordan Ivanov, professor at the University of Sofia, wrote in 1915 that Albanians, since they did not have their own alphabet, due to a lack of consolidated national consciousness and influenced by foreign propaganda, declared themselves as Turks, Greeks and Bulgarians, depending on which religion they belonged to. Albanians were losing their mother tongue in Struga.\nAccording to the 1943 Albanian census, Struga was inhabited by 2,876 Orthodox Macedonians, 2,063 Muslim Albanians, 443 Aromanians, 14 Serbs and 10 Russians.\nAs of the 2002 census, the city of Struga has 16,559 inhabitants and the ethnic composition was the following:\nThe mother tongues of the city's residents were the following:\nThe Gheg and Tosk dialects of Albanian are both spoken by the Albanians in Struga, and speakers are divided in the settlement by the Black Drin. The Albanian dialects in Struga are somewhere between Central Gheg and Northern Tosk, and they do not have many distinguishing features between them. The differences between them lie mainly in phonetics and morphology, with very few differences in terms of lexicology. Also, the Tosk spoken language and the town one - which is a transitive spoken language - do not have many differences from today's contemporary language.\nThe religious composition of the city was the following:\nUntil the last few decades of the 20th century Albanian Tosk, in particular the geographically central variety of the dialect dominated among speakers of Albanian in Struga. The local Romani population of Struga speaks and sings in the southern Tosk Albanian dialect, as does the local Turkish population.\nCulture.\nStruga is also a place of important cultural significance in North Macedonia, as it is the birthplace of the poets Konstantin and Dimitar Miladinov.\nThe main event of the cultural life in Struga is the world's largest poetry gathering, Struga Poetry Evenings, whose laureates have included several Nobel Prize for Literature winners such as\nand many others since 1966.\nThere are several cultural monuments in Struga and in its vicinity such as\nStruga's old architecture dates from the 18th and 19th centuries. \nSports.\nLocal football clubs FC Struga and FK Karaorman have both played in the Macedonian First Football League. A third club Vllaznimi, currently plays in the Macedonian Third League (Southwest Division).\nEconomy.\nTourism.\nMuch of the town's income is through internal tourism. Struga's location on Lake Ohrid makes it a slightly quieter and more peaceful experience than the more bustling Ohrid.\nWhen visiting this quiet town of North Macedonia, there are a few other places that show the beauty and culture, like the clay chamber pots at the house of the Miladinovci Brothers, the old bazaar, the century-old churches and mosques.\nBefore the evenings you can enjoy on 3 kinds of beaches called \"Male beach\" (ma\u0161ka pla\u017ea), \"Female beach\" (\u017denska pla\u017ea) and Galeb (\"Gull Beach\"), located just before the estuary of the river Crn Drim (Black Drim) in its own flow, and between the two previous beaches.\nJust in front of the \"Male beach\", at the estuary of the river Crn Drim it is located the biggest 5 star Hotel Drim in Struga.\nOut of the town there is another tourist place near the lake called Biser (Pearl), also a hotel.\nEvery August the Struga Poetry Evenings (SPE) are held at the \"Poetry Bridge\" () and are attended by poets, writers and artists from across the world. \nInternational relations.\nTwin towns \u2013 Sister cities.\nStruga is twinned with:"}
{"id": "756571", "revid": "39405234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756571", "title": "Rowlf the Dog", "text": "Rowlf the Dog is a Muppet character created and originally performed by Jim Henson. Known most notably as the resident pianist on the sketch comedy television series \"The Muppet Show\", Rowlf is an anthropomorphic scruffy brown dog of indeterminate breed with a rounded black nose and long floppy ears. Laid-back and wisecracking, his humor is characterized as deadpan and as such, he is one of few Muppets who is rarely flustered by the show's prevalent mayhem. Henson's closest collaborators and family members have claimed Rowlf to be the Muppet character most similar to Henson's real-life personality.\nRowlf was created in 1962 being introduced as the spokesman of Purina Dog Chow television commercials aired in Canada, in which he appeared with Baskerville the Hound. Rowlf was designed and performed by Henson, and was built by Don Sahlin; it was Sahlin's first Muppet construction. In 1966, Ideal Toys produced Rowlf and Kermit the Frog puppets. Rowlf subsequently appeared on \"The Jimmy Dean Show\" from 1963 to 1966, becoming the first Muppet to appear regularly on network television. In the 1970s and 1980s, Rowlf appeared as a regular character on \"The Muppet Show\" (1976\u20131982), as well as in \"The Muppet Movie\" (1979), \"The Great Muppet Caper\" (1981), and \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\" (1984). After a brief hiatus following Henson's death, Rowlf returned to the forefront in Muppet films and television series with Bill Barretta performing the character since \"Muppets Tonight\" (1996).\nCareer.\n\"The Jimmy Dean Show\".\nRowlf rose to popularity as Jimmy Dean's sidekick on \"The Jimmy Dean Show\", performed by Henson with Frank Oz assisting. He was the first Muppet with a regular spot on network television, appearing in 85 of the 86 total episodes from 1963 to the show's end in 1966. Jimmy Dean stated that Rowlf's segments were one of the most popular parts of the show, and that Rowlf drew two thousand fan letters a week. Henson was so grateful for the exposure Dean offered on his show, even proposing that Dean take a 40% stake in Henson's company. Dean refused, however, later saying in 2005, \"I didn't do anything to earn that.\" Dean and Rowlf appeared together for the last time in an episode of \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" airing on October 8, 1967, performing \"Friendship\" while doing the \"herd of cows\" gag.\n\"Sesame Street\".\nIn 1968, Rowlf appeared with Kermit the Frog on the pitch reel for \"Sesame Street\". At the end of the pitch reel, Rowlf is depicted as being eager to join the \"Sesame Street\" cast, while Kermit seems reluctant to do so; however, it was Kermit who became a \"Sesame\" star, while Rowlf appeared only in one filmed segment and was never a part of the show's regular cast.\n\"The Muppets\".\nIn 1976, Rowlf joined the recurring cast of \"The Muppet Show\" as the show's pianist. Rowlf also played Dr. Bob, the wisecracking doctor in the recurring medical drama parody skit \"Veterinarian's Hospital\", alongside nurses Janice and Miss Piggy. Though considered one of the main characters, he rarely interacted with any of the backstage plots involving the show's weekly guest stars.\nRowlf has a primary role in \"The Muppet Movie\" (1979). In 1984, Baby Rowlf debuted playing a toy piano during a musical number in \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\". This fantasy sequence with the Muppets as babies was so popular that it resulted in the successful animated cartoon spinoff \"Muppet Babies\". He was voiced on that program by Katie Leigh.\nJim Henson's last public performance as Rowlf before his death was as guest on \"The Arsenio Hall Show\" in 1989. For several years afterward, the character was retired out of deference to Henson's memory (only returning for silent cameos in \"The Muppets Celebrate Jim Henson\", \"The Muppet Christmas Carol\" and \"Muppet Treasure Island\"), as he was both the first Muppet to achieve popularity and, according to some sources, the character closest to Jim Henson's personality, with Henson's son Brian saying in the introduction to episode 117 of \"The Muppet Show\": \"Kermit was my father's best known character, but a lot of people think he was more like Rowlf in real life except he couldn't play the piano as well.\"\nSince 1996, Rowlf has been portrayed by puppeteer Bill Barretta. Barretta has gradually transitioned into the role. Rowlf's first words since Henson's death were in the second episode of \"Muppets Tonight\". Rowlf also had several lines of dialogue in \"The Muppet Show Live\" (2001) and spoke two lines of dialogue (\"Hey, Kermit!\" and \"Yeah! Heh, heh. Oh!\") in \"It's a Very Merry Muppet Christmas Movie\" (2002). In 2005, Rowlf had a 190-word monologue in the second episode of '. Rowlf appeared in the \"Keep Fishin'\" music video for rock band Weezer. Although he's only briefly seen, Rowlf had a more prominent role in the behind-the-scenes making-of special that accompanied it, \"Weezer and the Muppets Go Fishin.\nAdditionally, Bill Barretta recorded the vocals as Rowlf singing \"The Christmas Party Sing-Along\" for the 2006 \"\" album.\nRowlf and Kermit appeared together at the 2011 Disney D23 Expo to honor Jim Henson's posthumous induction as a Disney Legend, singing a live duet of \"The Rainbow Connection\", as they were Henson's first two Muppet characters.\nRowlf appears in \"The Muppets\" (2011), initially saddened he wasn't included in the montage depicting the principal Muppets being reunited (Rowlf was asleep, and was simply woken up by Kermit and easily convinced to join the cause), and helps rebuild the Muppet theater. He also performs \"Smells Like Teen Spirit\" in a barbershop quartet with Sam the Eagle, Beaker, and Link Hogthrob during the Muppet Telethon, as well as an unwilling (and captive) Jack Black.\nAs of 2014, Rowlf is on long-term display at the Center for Puppetry Arts in Atlanta, Georgia.\nIn 2019, Rowlf appeared with Darci Lynne on \"\", singing \"Can't Smile Without You\".\nAlbum.\nA solo album titled \"Ol' Brown Ears is Back\" was released by BMG in 1993 and featured 14 songs recorded by Jim Henson as Rowlf. The album had been recorded in 1984 but went unreleased until three years after Henson's death."}
{"id": "756576", "revid": "37052726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756576", "title": "Streetlight", "text": ""}
{"id": "756579", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756579", "title": "Glass blowing", "text": ""}
{"id": "756581", "revid": "342538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756581", "title": "Rio Hondo", "text": "R\u00edo Hondo (Spanish for \"deep river\") or Hondo River may refer to:"}
{"id": "756583", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756583", "title": "Watch dog", "text": ""}
{"id": "756584", "revid": "47713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756584", "title": "Rubberstamp", "text": ""}
{"id": "756585", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756585", "title": "Max Rosenberg", "text": "Max J. Rosenberg (September 13, 1914 \u2013 June 14, 2004) was an American film distributor and producer, whose career spanned six decades. He was particularly known for his horror or supernatural films, and found much of his success while working in England.\nLife and career.\nRosenberg was born in The Bronx, New York City, to a family of Jewish immigrants. In 1945, he entered the film business by becoming a film distributor, using the business names Classic Pictures Inc. and, occasionally, National Roadshows. As such, he first distributed mainly reissues, but by 1950 was adding a range of film types (from Murder in the Cathedral to Chained For Life). \nHe entered production with the film \"Rock, Rock, Rock\" (1956), a rock-and-roll story. His partner in the production of this film was Milton Subotsky. Subsequently, he and Subotsky emigrated to England, where they founded the British company Amicus Productions in 1962. With Amicus, he primarily produced horror or supernatural films, such as Dr. Terror's House of Horrors in 1965, the title of which he had originally used for a National Roadshows film of 1945. \nOver the course of his career, Rosenberg produced more than 50 films, although his work was not always credited. Among the other horror and supernatural films he produced were such titles as \"Tales from the Crypt\" (1972), \"The Land That Time Forgot\" (1974), and its sequel, \"The People That Time Forgot\" (1977).\nRosenberg also produced a children's film, \"Lad, a Dog\" (1962), director Richard Lester's first film, \"It's Trad, Dad!\" (1962), and two films based on the \"Doctor Who\" British science-fiction television series: \"Dr. Who and the Daleks\" (1965) and \"Daleks' Invasion Earth 2150 A.D.\" (1966). He was particularly proud to have produced the 1968 film of Harold Pinter's \"The Birthday Party\", starring Robert Shaw and directed by William Friedkin. Rosenberg continued to work well into his 80s; his final film credit was 1997's \"Perdita Durango\" (a.k.a. \"Dance with the Devil\").\nRosenberg died in Los Angeles, California in 2004, at the age of 89."}
{"id": "756588", "revid": "18285885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756588", "title": "Unbiased", "text": ""}
{"id": "756589", "revid": "47713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756589", "title": "Tramstop", "text": ""}
{"id": "756590", "revid": "7770027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756590", "title": "PQQ", "text": "PQQ may refer to:"}
{"id": "756591", "revid": "12331483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756591", "title": "Terabit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756593", "revid": "40043980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756593", "title": "Windows Console", "text": "Windows Console is a GUI application for running console applications in Windows. Windows Console is used for running text-based programs such as operating system shells (e.g. Command Prompt and PowerShell), utilities (e.g. Far Manager) and some, generally older, applications (e.g. Midnight Commander).\nWindows Terminal was introduced in Windows 10 as a replacement for Windows Console. In 2019, the console host was open-sourced under the MIT License, alongside Windows Terminal.\nUse.\nFull-screen mode.\nWindows Console runs in either window or full-screen mode. The mode can be toggled by pressing .\nIn window mode, the console writes text in a window and uses an operating system's font rendering. In this mode, an application's user interaction is controlled by the windowing system, analogous to X Window System applications such as xterm.\nIn Windows XP and earlier, the full-screen console uses a hardware text mode and uploads a raster font to the video adapter, analogous to a text-based system console. This early full-screen mode only supports VGA-compatible text modes, giving it a maximum character resolution of 80 columns by 28 rows. This mode was removed in Windows Vista, although until Windows 8, it was possible to circumvent this issue by installing a Windows XP display driver. \nWindows 10 features a full-screen mode once again. The implementation uses the native Windows rendering subsystem instead of the text mode, and supports rows and columns to fill the screen.\nProgrammatic access.\nA program may programmatically interact with its host console via the Windows API, which exposes both high-level functions (such as codice_1, codice_2, codice_3, and codice_4) and low-level functions (e.g. codice_5 and codice_6).\nFonts and colors.\nA user can configure the console font or color palette, either system-wide or at the application level. An instance of a console application, however, cannot change its font or color palette on the fly.\nDistinction from DOS.\nA console application is distinct from an MS-DOS application, even though on Windows (especially on Windows 9x), they may not look different. A console application has access to the Windows API and does not run on MS-DOS or compatible systems. A DOS application cannot access the Windows API and only runs on a 32-bit version of Windows with the aid of Virtual DOS machine (VDM).\nDesign.\nInput/output buffering.\nAn instance of a Windows Console has a screen buffer and an input buffer. The input buffer is a queue where events are stored (from keyboard, mouse etc.). The output buffer is a rectangular grid where characters are stored, together with their attributes. A console window may have several output buffers, only one of which is active (i.e. displayed) for a given moment. \nImplementations.\nIn Windows 3.1 and earlier, there is no native support for consoles. Because those version are merely a graphical interface for MS-DOS, most text programs that ran on earlier Windows versions were actually MS-DOS programs running in a window. To simplify the task of porting applications to Windows, early versions of Visual C++ are supplied with QuickWin, a library that implements basic console functionality inside a regular window. A similar library for Borland C++ was called EasyWin.\nWindows 9x.\nWindows 9x support is relatively poor compared to Windows NT, because the console window runs in the system virtual DOS machine and so keyboard input to a Win32 console application had to be directed to it by conagent.exe running in a DOS VM that are also used for real DOS applications by hooking the keyboard interrupt. codice_7 then calls Vcond (which is a VxD). Vcond then had to pass the keyboard input to the System VM, and then finally to the Win32 console application. Besides performance, another problem with this implementation is that drives that are local to a DOS VM are not visible to a Win32 console application. This can cause confusion.\nUnder Windows 9x, the screen buffer mirrors the structure of VGA text buffer, with two bytes per character cell: one byte for character code, one byte for attributes (the character must be in OEM character set, the attribute is with high-intensity background/no blinking). This speeds up operation considerably if the actual VGA text mode is used.\nWindows NT and Windows CE.\nTraditionally, the Client/Server Runtime Subsystem (CSRSS) has been responsible for managing console windows on the Windows NT family of operating systems. In Windows 7, CSRSS spawns one codice_8 for each console window, to manage it. In Windows 8 and later, the console applications spawn their codice_8 processes directly. This change has both security and usability implications. While CSRSS runs in a highly privileged security context, each codice_8 runs in the same security context as the console app. In addition, in Windows 7, this change enabled console windows to have the features of the Aero Glass theme.\nOn Windows NT and Windows CE, the screen buffer uses four bytes per character cell: two bytes for character code, two bytes for attributes. The character is then encoded in a 16-bit subset of Unicode (UCS-2). For backward compatibility, the console APIs exist in two versions: Unicode and non-Unicode. The non-Unicode versions of APIs can use code page switching to extend the range of displayed characters (but only if TrueType fonts are used for the console window, thereby extending the range of codes available). Even UTF-8 is available as \"code page 65001\" (displaying only from the UCS-2 subset of full Unicode).\nAs of the Windows 10 October 2018 update, the Windows Console has full Unicode support."}
{"id": "756595", "revid": "12331483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756595", "title": "Petabit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756600", "revid": "37052726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756600", "title": "4x4", "text": ""}
{"id": "756604", "revid": "12331483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756604", "title": "Exabit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756605", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756605", "title": "Mark Robert Rypien", "text": ""}
{"id": "756606", "revid": "1306352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756606", "title": "Zettabit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756610", "revid": "12331483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756610", "title": "Yottabit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756611", "revid": "2248816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756611", "title": "Chaim Yosef David Azulai", "text": "Haim Yosef David Azulai ben Yitzhak Zerachia (; 1724 \u2013 1 March 1806), commonly known as the Hida (also spelled Chida, the acronym of his name, ), was a Jerusalem born rabbinical scholar, a noted bibliophile, and a pioneer in the publication of Jewish religious writings. He is considered \"one of the most prominent Sephardi rabbis of the 18th century\".\nAzulai embarked on two extensive fundraising missions for the Jewish community in Hebron. His first journey, spanning 1753\u20131757, crossed Italy and German lands, reaching Western Europe and London. A second trip, between 1772\u20131778, saw him travel through Tunisia, Italy, France, and Holland. Following his travels, Azulai settled in the Italian port city of Livorno, a major center of Sephardic Jewish life. He remained there until his death in 1806.\nThe Hida's intact and published travel diaries, similarly to those of Benjamin of Tudela, provide a comprehensive first hand account of Jewish life and historical events throughout the Europe and Near East of his day.\nSome have speculated that his family name, Azulai, is an acronym based on being a Kohen: (\"Leviticus\", 21:7), a biblical restriction on whom a Kohen may marry.\nBiography.\nAzulai was born in Jerusalem, where he received his education from some local prominent scholars. He was the scion of a prominent rabbinic family, the great-great-grandson of Moroccan Rabbi Abraham Azulai. The Yosef part of his name came from his mother's father, Rabbi Yosef Bialer, a German scholar.\nHis main teachers were the Yishuv haYashan rabbis Isaac HaKohen Rapoport, Shalom Sharabi, and Haim ibn Attar (the \"Ohr HaHaim\") as well as Jonah Nabon. At an early age he showed proficiency in Talmud, Kabbalah, and Jewish history, and \"by the age of 12 he was already composing chiddushim on Hilchos Melichah.\"\nIn 1755, he was\u2014on the basis of his scholarship\u2014elected to become an emissary (\"shaliach\") for the small Jewish community in the Land of Israel, and he would travel around Europe extensively, making an impression in every Jewish community that he visited. According to some records, he left the Land of Israel three times (1755, 1770, and 1781), living in Hebron in the meantime. His travels took him to Western Europe, and North Africa. \nIn 1755 he was in Germany, where he met the Pnei Yehoshua,\n who on the basis of prior written communication confirmed Hida's identity. In 1764 he was in Egypt, and in 1773 he was in Tunisia, Morocco, and Italy. He seems to have remained in the latter country until 1777, most probably occupied with the printing of the first part of his biographical dictionary, \"Shem HaGedolim\", (Livorno, 1774), and with his notes on the \"Shulhan Aruch,\" entitled \"Birke Yosef\", (Livorno, 1774\u201376). In 1777 he was in France, and in 1778 in Holland. Wherever he went, he would examine collections of manuscripts of rabbinic literature, which he later documented in his \"Shem HaGedolim\".\nOn 28 October 1778 he married, in Pisa, his second wife, Rachel; his first wife, also Rachel, had died in 1773. Noting this event in his diary, he adds the wish that he may be permitted to return to the Land of Israel. This wish seems not to have been realized. In any event, he remained in Leghorn (Livorno), occupied with the publication of his works, and died there twenty-eight years later in 1806 (Friday night, 11 Adar 5566, Shabbat Zachor). He had been married twice; he had two sons by the names of Abraham and Raphael Isaiah Azulai.\nReburial in Israel.\nIn 1956, the 150th anniversary of Hida's death, Israel's Chief Rabbi Yitzhak Nissim \nbegan work on a plan to reinter Hida in Israel. This included getting the approval and cooperation of the Leghorn Jewish community, acquiring a special 600 square meter plot on Har Hamenuchot, and constructing an ohel over the grave. On Tuesday, 20 Iyar 5720 (17 May 1960), 154 years after his death, Hida's final written wish, to return to Israel, \"came true.\"\nHis early scholarship.\nWhile being a strict Talmudist, and a believer in the Kabbalah, his studious habits and exceptional memory awakened in him an interest in the history of rabbinical literature.\nHe accordingly began at an early age a compilation of passages in rabbinical literature in which dialectic authors had tried to solve questions that were based on chronological errors. This compilation, which he completed at age 16, he called \u05d4\u05e2\u05dc\u05dd \u05d3\u05d1\u05e8 (\"Some Oversights\"); it was never printed.\nAzulai's scholarship made him so famous that in 1755 he was chosen as \"meshulach\", (emissary), an honor bestowed on such men only as were, by their learning, well fitted to represent the Holy Land in Europe, where the people looked upon a rabbi from the land of Israel as a model of learning and piety.\nAzulai's literary activity is of an astonishing breadth. It encompasses every area of rabbinic literature: exegesis, homiletics, casuistry, Kabbalah, liturgics, and literary history. A voracious reader, he noted all historical references; and on his travels he visited the famous libraries of Italy and France, where he examined the Hebrew manuscripts.\nHis works.\nAzulai was a prolific writer. His works range from a prayerbook he edited and arranged ('Tefillat Yesharim') to a vast spectrum of Halachic literature including a commentary on the \"Shulchan Aruch\" titled 'Birkei Yosef' which appears in most editions. While living and traveling in Italy, he printed many works, mainly in Livorno and Pisa but also in Mantua. The list of his works, compiled by Isaac ben Jacob, runs to seventy-one items; but some are named twice, because they have two titles, and some are only small treatises. The veneration bestowed upon him by his contemporaries was that given to a saint. He reports in his diary that when he learned in Tunis of the death of his first wife, he kept it secret, because the people would have forced him to marry at once. Legends printed in the appendix to his diary, and others found in Aaron Walden's \"Shem HaGedolim He\u1e24adash\" (compare also \"Ma'aseh Nora\", pp.\u00a07\u201316, Podgorica, 1899), prove the great respect in which he was held. Many of his works are still extant and studied today. His scope was exceptionally wide, from \"halakha\" (\"Birkei Yosef\") and \"Midrash\" to his main historical work \"Shem HaGedolim\". Despite his Sephardi heritage, he appears to have been particularly fond of the \"Chasidei Ashkenaz\" (a group of Medieval German rabbis, notably Judah the Chasid).\n\"Shem HaGedolim\".\nHis historical notes were published in four booklets, comprising two sections, under the titles \"Shem HaGedolim\" (The Name of the Great Ones), containing the names of authors, and \"Va'ad la-\u1e24akhamim\" (Assembly of the Wise), containing the titles of works. This treatise has established for Azulai a lasting place in Jewish literature. It contains data that might otherwise have been lost, and it proves the author to have had a critical mind. By sound scientific methods he investigated the question of the genuineness of Rashi's commentary to \"Chronicles\" or to some Talmudic treatise (see \"Rashi,\" in \"Shem HaGedolim\"). However, he does assert that Rashi indeed is the author of the \"Rashi\" commentary on Neviim and Ketuvim, contrary to some others' opinions.\nNevertheless, he firmly believed that Haim Vital had drunk water from Miriam's well, and that this fact enabled him to receive, in less than two years, the whole Kabbalah from the lips of Isaac Luria (see \"\u1e24ayyim Vital,\" in \"Shem HaGedolim\"). Azulai often records where he has seen in person which versions of certain manuscripts were extant.\nBibliography.\nA complete bibliographical list of his works is found in the preface to Benjacob's edition of \"Shem HaGedolim\", Vilna, 1852, and frequently reprinted;\nHis role as Shadar.\nThe Hida served the role of shadar (\"shaliach derabanan\"), or emissary, for the Jewish community of Hebron. He left Israel twice on five-year-long fundraising missions that took him as far west as Tunisia and as far north as Great Britain and Amsterdam. The Hida collected money on behalf of the Jewish communities in Israel who suffered from poverty and persecution.\nThe Hida, like many emissaries, was a qualified and highly regarded personality who was chosen to represent his community. A shadar often had to be able to arbitrate matters of Jewish law for the local Jewish communities Ideally, emissaries were multi-lingual so that they could communicate with both Jew and Gentile along the way. Emissaries had to be willing to undertake dangerous journeys mission that would separate them away from their families for so long. One in ten emissaries sent abroad for these fundraising missions never made it back alive. Emissaries would often divorce their wives before leaving, so that if they died along the way and their deaths could not be verified, their wives would be able to legally remarry. If they returned safely from their journey, they would remarry their wives, who would sometimes wait as long as five years for their husbands to return from their mission.\nMoreover, the Hida records numerous instances of miraculous survival and dangerous threats of his day, among them, close scrapes with the Russian Navy during its support of the Ali Bey uprising against the Turks, the danger of boarding and worse by the Knights of Malta, the hostility of the English government officials towards anyone entering the country from France or Spain, as well as those aforementioned countries' wrath against someone crossing back over from their hated enemy, England, and the daily danger of running into various anti-semitic locals and nobles throughout mainland Europe (especially Germany).\nTravelogue: Ma'gal Tov.\nAzulai authored a detailed travelogue recounting his two journeys to Europe. The travelogue documents Azulai's encounters with various communities, rare books and manuscripts, and the challenges of overseas travel, including storms, pirates, custom officials, and occasional hostility from non-Jewish inkeepers. Likely intended for personal use, the travelogue was first printed in the 1930s by Aron Freimann based on the original autograph manuscript.\nIn his travelogue, Azulai also shows an interest in tourist attractions, visiting landmarks such as the Leaning Tower of Pisa, the Boboli Gardens of Florence, the Palace of Versailles, and the Tower of London. He also climbed the Campanile in Venice for a panoramic view of the city and explored destinations like the new promenade in Nizza, an ancient temple in southern France, and the natural science museum in Amsterdam. "}
{"id": "756612", "revid": "38984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756612", "title": "Lancelot du Lac", "text": ""}
{"id": "756613", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756613", "title": "Hunting rifle", "text": ""}
{"id": "756615", "revid": "1306352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756615", "title": "Kibibit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756616", "revid": "12331483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756616", "title": "Mebibit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756617", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756617", "title": "Patrick A. O'Boyle", "text": ""}
{"id": "756618", "revid": "35585582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756618", "title": "Metsovo", "text": "Metsovo (; ) is a town in Epirus, in the mountains of Pindus in northern Greece, between Ioannina to the west and Meteora to the east.\nThe largest centre of Aromanian (Vlach) life in Greece, Metsovo is a large regional hub for several small villages and settlements in the Pindus region, and it features many shops, schools, offices, services, museums, and galleries. The economy of Metsovo is dominated by agriculture and tourism, the latter flourishing in winter.\nMetsovo is served by Greek National Road 6 (Ioannina \u2013 Trikala) and by the A2 motorway.\nEtymology.\nFrom medieval times till well into the 19th century, Metsovo was known, in various sources, as \"Metzovo\". From the end of the 18th century on, the literary form of \"Messovon\" makes its appearance. The town is known as \"Aminciu\" in Aromanian (Vlach), and as \"Mi\u00e7ova\" in Ottoman Turkish.\nOttoman census records.\nIn the Ottoman census records we see the word \"Mcwh\" (\u0645\u062c\u0648\u0647), which is usually pronounced \"Mi\u00e7ova\". In Aromanian, Metsovo is called \"Amin\u02a4u\", a word combining the preposition \"a\" (meaning \"to, into\") and the word \"Min\u02a4u\".\nVarious names.\nFrom \"Min\u02a4u\" derive terms signifying ethnic origin \"Mi\u02a4anu\" and \"Mi\u02a4an\u0259\"\u2014meaning, respectively, \"man from Metsovo\", \"woman from Metsovo\"\u2014as well as the adjectives \"mi\u02a4\u0259nescu\" and \"mi\u02a4\u0259neasc\u0259\"\u2014meaning \"Metsovite\", \"of Metsovo\"\u2014which are used today by the residents of Metsovo. The Aromanian part of the population, that part which does not use the term \"Amin\u02a4u\", uses the name \"Me\u02a4ova\". Some firman refer to Metsovo as Derveni.\nModern form.\nThe derivation of the name \"Metsovo\"\u2014from the words \"Mitsous\" and \"Mesovounon\" or from the unattested Slav word \"*M\u1eb9\u010dovo\", meaning bear-place\u2014which has been proposed by academics and historians, is not confirmed by linguistic research. Alternatively, there appears to be an etymological relation between the Aromanian \"Min\u02a4u\" and the Greek \"Metsovo\", the latter being a combination of the stem \"Mets\" and the Slavic-ending \"ovo\".\nHistory.\nIn the 15th century Metsovo came under Ottoman rule and became part of the Sanjak of Ioannina. Throughout the late period of Ottoman rule (18th century-1913) the Greek and Aromanian population of the region (Northern Pindus) suffered from Albanian raiders. On one occasion, during the local Greek revolt of 1854, the town was plundered by both Ottoman troops and the men of Theodoros Grivas, a former general in the Greek military, during their struggle for control of the town. \nDuring the First Balkan War, Metsovo was burnt by raiding bands. In the last 10 days of October 1912, military volunteers from Crete, together with about 340 soldiers of the tactical Greek army under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Mitsas, advanced through Thessaly to the then Greek-Turkish border along the mountains east of Metsovo. On October 31, 1912, the Greek troops assisted by rebel groups from Epirus and volunteers from Metsovo, having crossed the Katara-Zygos mountain ridge overnight, attacked the Turkish garrison of Metsovo, which then comprised 205 soldiers and two cannons. The battle lasted until 4 pm when the Ottoman soldiers inside the besieged Turkish garrison raised a white flag and surrendered.\nSocial stratification.\nSocially, the residents of Metsovo, up until the beginning of the 20th century, were divided into three classes: the \"arhontzi\" (arxondz\u0268), the \"vinitsi\" (vinits\u0268) and the \"algi\" (al\u025fi) or, mockingly, \"gizari\" (\u025fizari). This socioeconomic stratification developed during the Ottoman occupation.\n\u00c1rhontzi.\nThe arhontzi were the wealthiest part of society. Their revenues derived from wholesale and retail commercial activities. Although locally very powerful, they were not a closed group in terms of social mobility. Wealth gave anyone the right to climb up the social ladder to the next higher level, although such ascent often gave rise to serious conflicts.\nV\u00ednitsi.\nThe vinitsi comprised the middle and lower classes of the settlement that were not occupied in livestock breeding. It mostly included farmers, small business owners, technicians, mule drivers, and small-scale merchants. Despite the economic and professional diversification among the vinitsi, they saw themselves as a unified social class, which was evident in their social relations. For example, they would marry among themselves but never with members of the algi.\n\u00c1lgi.\nThe algi were the class of traveling sheepherders, whose occupation was large-scale sheepherding, livestock breeding, as well as woodcarving. They had set rules regarding the social roles of their members, and a strict patriarchal structure that governed their class.\nDistinctions between vinitsi and algi.\nThe social differences between the two lower classes were not based on income criteria but on the fact that their members came from very different economic structures. In the past, the distinction between sheepherders and non-sheepherders existed in all developed Aromanian settlements of Pindos, and could possibly be concealing, in a latent form, the socioeconomic reality of past times. This was not a class distinction based on wealth, since in most cases the members of both groups belonged to the poorer segments of the population, but a differentiation related to the establishment of the settlements during the Ottoman period, which produced the co-existence of populations with the same linguistic base but with clearly different economic and social structures.\nOttoman tax district.\nKarye-iMi\u00e7ova denoted the tax district of the Ottoman timar that constituted the area of Metsovo. Six settlements are recorded in it. Each settlement's name is preceded by the indication \"karye\" and usually followed by the phrase \"t\u00e2bi'-iMi\u00e7ova\" meaning \"subject to Metsovo\".\nThe word \"karye\", as a term in the organizational structure of the Ottoman Empire, defined a settlement or a group of settlements constituting a unified tax district. In the Greek language it is usually translated by the word \"chorion\". However, it does not correspond to the term \"settlement\" as used in modern statistical terminology, but rather to \"community\". In other words, it does not signify a group of buildings, but a well-defined geographical area with a self-contained legal entity. A karye could include more than one settlements regardless how far apart they were from each other.\nIn the 1506 census, Karye-iMi\u00e7ova is followed by the phrase \"t\u00e2bi'-i \u03a4irhala\" meaning \"subject to Trikala\". The names of eight settlements appear in it. Before the name of each settlement, the indication \"karye\" of the 1454\u201355 census has been replaced by \"mahalle\". The specific administrative structure of the area constituted the basis for its administrative organization in the centuries to come. In administrative documents of the 18th century, the present settlement of Metsovo is termed \"chora\" and the other villages as \"mahalades\".\nThe privileges of Metsovo.\nStarting in the mid-17th century, the residents in the region of Metsovo were relieved from the obligation to pay the regular and ad hoc taxes that were usually paid by Christian residents in other Ottoman regions, on the condition that they would pay a lump sum per year. The Ottoman administration often made such arrangements for groups of its subjects that offered a special service to the state.\nThe case of Metsovo.\nThe special service provided by the Metsovo residents was the guarding of the local mountain passes and the servicing of travelers. The special tax regime did not mean self-government in theory. The notion of autonomy was unknown to the Ottoman understanding of polity. In practice, however, the granting of tax exemptions was equivalent to self-governance of the area.\nSince the 18th century, the management of \"lasa\", or bequests left to a community, constituted one of the most important municipal functions. The love for their birthplace and the social altruism of the Metsovites living abroad resulted in the amassing of significant benefactor funds in Metsovo. As early as the beginning of the 19th century, there was a special logbook where the wills and testaments of the benefactors were recorded. The logbook was destroyed in 1854; it was then redrafted by the patriarchal exarchate of Metsovo but destroyed again in 1941.\nManagement of state property.\nIn theory, the sultan was the undisputed owner of all land in Metsovo and had the right to dispose of it as he wished. That is why firmans were only temporarily applicable and defined the area as the property of Ottoman officials, to whom the Sultan granted tenure rights.\nReduced taxes.\nThe reduction of taxes meant keeping a larger share of the local surplus crop production. In consequence, regardless of the theoretical framework that governed the land ownership and political regime of the Ottoman Empire, the lands of Metsovo were gradually falling under the absolute possession, ownership, and management of its residents, which corresponded to political self-governance. This development had a cost. Every year, the corresponding taxes and other contributions had to be pre-paid to the Ottoman landlord of the area, otherwise the Chora or Mukataa of Metsovo could lose its status and be combined with neighboring Ottoman regions.\nThe phenomenon of beneficence.\nBeneficence by Metsovites is a powerful phenomenon, the dimensions of which were formed through the processes relating to the socioeconomic growth of Metsovo during the Ottoman period. It is mainly the expression of the cultural notions that governed the ruling class of Metsovo at the time. Despite the long absence of the men of the community from Metsovo, due to their business and commercial activities, their hometown remains in their hearts as their financial and family seat. Consequently, a large part of their revenue is channeled into the local economy by themselves or their families, as charity or investment capital to be used for the conservation of the social and political superiority of their class.\nBeneficence as a notion is directly connected with the special political regime granted by the Ottoman state to the Chora Metsovou. The demonstration of altruism, signaling and confirming their social distinction and status, provides Metsovites with the option to have social and economic control of their homeland. At first, their social solidarity is expressed as a church-sponsoring funding activity according to the standards of a cultural notion that derives from the medieval past of the Orthodox church.\nThe Exarchate of Metsovo.\nAfter 1659, the area of Metsovo, thus far under the bishopric of Stagoi, was formed into its own exarchate under a patriarchal exarch. The \"Catholic Exarch of Metsovo\"\u2014a person appointed by the Patriarch of Constantinople\u2014resided in Constantinople and was paid 15 kuru\u015flar annually for his role as supervisor of the region. In actuality, his duties were performed by a local clergyman, who was elected by the people of Metsovo, approved by the patriarchate, and was obliged to act in the name of the catholic exarch. From 1818, the election of the clergyman was by vote of the ephors of the schools of Metsovo, with his election then being ratified by the patriarchate. The spiritual jurisdiction of the exarch comprised the settlements of Metsovo, Anilio, Derventista (now Anthohori), Votonosi, Milia, Koutsioufleani (now Platanistos), and Malakasi. In 1924, the Exarchate of Metsovo was temporarily upgraded to a metropolis, in order to accommodate the placement of clergy from Asia Minor who had lost their seats. In 1929, the metropolis was abolished without reinstating the exarchate. The region came under the Metropolis of Grevena until 1932, when Metsovo, Anilio, Votonosi and Derventista were annexed to the Metropolis of Ioannina. The Exarchate of Metsovo, functioning as the local representative of the religious ideals of the Patriarchate, played a major part in the formation of the religious and national conscience of the higher social classes of Metsovo.\nThe scholars and clergy of Metsovo.\nThe economic and social growth of Metsovo during the 18th century is reflected in the efforts of the residents to upgrade their level of education. Indicative of these efforts is the establishment of a school as early as the beginning of the 18th century, the continuous care to maintain its operation, and studying abroad in European universities to receive higher education. The result of this process is the appearance of a class of scholars, teachers, and clergymen who participate actively in the intellectual life in the territories of modern Greece. Among these scholars we find Parthenios Katzoulis, Anastasios Metsovitis, Konstantinos of Metsovo, Tryfon of Metsovo, Demetrios Vardakas, Adam Tsapekos, Anastasios of Metsovo, Dositheos Driinoupoleos, Konstantinos Peltekis, Konstantinos Tzikas, Triantafyllos Hatzis Stergiou, Christoforos Varlamitis, the Kyriakos brothers, Konstantinos and Theofilos Tzarzoulis, as well as their father Nikolaos Tzartzoulis who is considered one of the \"Teachers of the Nation\" by Greek historians.\nThe merchants of Metsovo.\nThe merchants in Metsovo were peddlers that became very active in commercial trade, in both the Ottoman Empire and in Europe.\nSocioeconomic growth of Metsovo.\nThe impressive socioeconomic growth of Metsovo during the Ottoman occupation is mainly due to the involvement of a large part of its population in the commercial activities of both the Ottoman Empire and of Europe. Taking into account the fact that the residents of Metsovo had been migrating for a long time, it is difficult to determine the beginning of its commercial growth.\nTestimonies \u2013 sources.\nSubstantial information about the commercial development of Metsovo are found from the mid-17th century onward, when we see testimonies of the presence of peddlers from Metsovo in Constantinople and Venice, which indicates an early phase of their involvement in commercial trade in the eastern Mediterranean. During the 18th century we see testimonies of the presence of Metsovite merchants in Constantinople, Bucharest, and Vienna. By the end of the 18th century there is an established community of merchants in Metsovo, which, through a collaborative or overlapping trade network, spread its operations over a rather extensive geographic area.\n19th century.\nThe first decade of the 19th century signaled the beginning of the most dynamic phase of commercial activity by the Metsovites. Now the geographic and economic reach of their activity exceeds its initial range. Their activity extends as far as Moscow, Cairo, Malta, Livorno, and Trieste.\nCities of activity.\nRecords show that Metsovite merchants had a permanent presence in the following cities and towns: Corfu, Serres, Filippoupoli, Odessa, Brody, Moscow, Petersburg, Sevastopol, Nizna, Thessaloniki, in the Romanian cities of Orsova, Chisinau, Iasi, Ismail (Bessarabia), Craiova, Focsani, Galatsi, and Odessa, and a presence in the trade fairs and open-air markets of Perlepe, Sistov, Uzungiova, Rostov, Smyrna, Cyprus, and Damascus. Naturally, the old trade strongholds of Constantinople, Bucharest, and Vienna continued to present the largest concentrations of Metsovite merchants.\nAlexandria.\nAnother significant overseas hub of commercial activity for Metsovites is the port of Alexandria, in Egypt. The latest records show that the nature of their trading has changed dramatically from the times of their traditional land transport and trade fairs in the Balkans. Although the traditional method of commerce still occupies the merchants that are based in Metsovo or Ioannina, a large number of Metsovite merchants has established trading companies and agencies in distant places where they are occupied with all types of import and export trade.\nProvince.\nThe province of Metsovo () was one of the provinces of the Ioannina Prefecture. Its territory corresponded with that of the current municipality of Metsovo, except for most of the municipal unit of Egnatia. It was abolished in 2006.\nMunicipality.\nThe present municipality of Metsovo was created by the 2011 local government reform, by the merger of the following 3 former municipalities that became municipal units:\nThe municipality of Metsovo has an area of , the municipal unit of Metsovo has an area of , and the community of Metsovo has an area of .\nClimate.\nMetsovo has a temperate climate with snowy winters and pleasant summers. Precipitation is high all year with a drying trend in summer.\nTransportation.\nIn the 1980s, a nearby tunnel was constructed that was the longest in Greece, alleviating traffic that would otherwise clog Metsovo's twisting roads. In 2006, the junction between the A2 motorway and a section of Greek National Road (Ioannina \u2013 Trikala) made for a superhighway with two exits at Metsovo.\nCulture/attractions.\nCuisine.\nThe town is famous for its local cheeses (Metsovone and Metsovela, among others) and for its winemaking industries, including the \"Kat\u00f3gi\" vineyard of the Averoff family.\nOther.\nA museum named Averoff Gallery is dedicated to Georgios Averoff. Metsovo is a popular winter vacation destination and ski resort town. The Metsovo Ski Centre is situated not far from the centre of Metsovo.\nMetsovo is included in the Aromanian traditional song \"Di la Aminciu p\u00e3n' la Ameru\" (\"From Metsovo to Milea\").\nNotable people.\nNotable individuals from Metsovo include:"}
{"id": "756619", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756619", "title": "Patrick Aloysius O'Boyle", "text": ""}
{"id": "756620", "revid": "49434279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756620", "title": "Chida, Pakistan", "text": "Chida is a village in Narowal District of Punjab province, Pakistan. It is located at 32\u00b014'0N 74\u00b049'0E with an altitude of 242 metres (797 feet). Neighbouring settlements include Lala, Qila Sobha Singh and Depoke."}
{"id": "756621", "revid": "51406684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756621", "title": "Peter Baynham", "text": "Peter Baynham is a Welsh screenwriter, stand-up comedian and performer. His writing work includes collaborations with comedy figures such as Armando Iannucci, Steve Coogan, Chris Morris, Sacha Baron Cohen and Sarah Smith. Born in Cardiff, Wales, Baynham served in the British Merchant Navy at age 16 with a desire to travel the world after leaving school and later pursued a career in comedy as a stand-up comedian and then he became a writer and a performer for various news and sketch comedies in radio and television. He also became a writer in feature film.\nIn television, with Iannucci and Coogan, Baynham is a writer for the sitcom \"I'm Alan Partridge\" and a presenter for the satirical comedy sketch show \"The Saturday Night Armistice\". With Morris, he is a writer for the satirical comedy miniseries \"The Day Today\", \"Brass Eye\" and \"Jam\". Baynham himself created, wrote and directed the adult animated black comedy miniseries \"I Am Not an Animal\". In feature film, with Baron Cohen, Baynham is a writer for the comedy films \"Borat\" (2006), \"Br\u00fcno\" (2009), \"Grimsby\" (2016) and \"Borat Subsequent Moviefilm\" (2020). With Smith, he is a writer for the animated films \"Arthur Christmas\" (2011) and \"Ron's Gone Wrong\" (2021). With Iannucci and Coogan again, Baynham is a writer for the crime comedy film \"\" (2013). Other feature films as a writer include the romantic comedy film \"Arthur\" (2011) and the animated film \"Hotel Transylvania\" (2012).\nEarly life.\nBaynham was born and raised in Cardiff, Wales as the second of four children. He attended St Mary's Primary School in Canton and Lady Mary RC High School in Cyncoed. Baynham said he found school difficult, finding himself shy, weedy and unpopular. He found himself too unathletic to enjoy rugby, despite expectations from his father. He left school with eight O-Levels, four with an \"A\" grade and joined the British Merchant Navy at age 16 with a desire to travel the world. Baynham described his experience in the British Merchant Navy as unsuited to his character, saying \"I was with men who drank beer for breakfast. A lot of them were fascist, and I mean really fascist. They say travel should broaden the mind but these blokes would have been kicked out of the Ku Klux Klan for being too extreme\". Duties included performing operations on a chemical tanker while wearing a hazmat suit. He reflected by saying \"I'm small and would basically float around inside the suit like a confused foetus, trying to pick up spanners and operate a walkie-talkie\". Baynham is qualified to navigate a supertanker. After five years, he was made redundant due to government cuts in defence. He went on to serve as second mate on a private yacht in Monte Carlo, Monaco as a summer job.\nCareer.\n1987\u20132004: Radio and television.\nIn 1987, Baynham moved to London, England with his brother and worked by selling some advertising space in \"The Guardian\" newspaper. He began attending a comedy workshop The Comedy Store. He became a stand-up comedian and created the character \"Mr. Buckstead\", a psychotic teacher and poet. Baynham said the act consisted of \"[talking] about the terrible things he did to his pupils\". During this period, he financially supported himself with self-employment income under the Enterprise Allowance Scheme, his redundancy cheque (from the British Merchant Navy) and a bank loan that was nominally meant for buying a car. He earned around \u00a320 (GBP) per gig and made \u00a34,500 in his first year. To additionally support himself, Baynham wrote sketches for the satirical radio current affairs sketch show \"Week Ending\". He earned \u00a318 for each minute of material and contributed around two minutes of material each week. After four years, Baynham felt that his stand-up career was not progressing and he decided to commit to radio. He became a cast member for the BBC television sketch series \"Fist of Fun\".\nAiming to break into television, Baynham wrote one-liner jokes for a Terry Wogan-presented Friday Night show. He was unimpressed by Wogan's delivery of the jokes. While working at the BBC offices and looking for photocopier paper, Baynham encountered Armando Iannucci who would introduce him to Chris Morris who was creating the satirical sketch comedy miniseries \"The Day Today\". Although Morris was not interested in accepting more writers for the project, Baynham was born a writer after Morris was impressed by a sketch that he wrote that involved horses who infest the London Underground. Baynham also appears in a sketch as a reporter (named \"Colin Poppshed\") who presented \"Gay News\" where he farcically announces the gayness of various roads, periodic table elements, cars and walls. Baynham also became a guest and contributor for the radio show \"The Chris Morris Music Show\", but he was suspended by the BBC for two weeks for conceiving a joke where Morris falsely implies on air that Michael Heseltine had died. Baynham stated that Morris technically did not announce his death, saying \"if there is any news of Michael Heseltine's death in the next hour, we'll let you know\". Baynham even became a cast member for the radio series \"Lee and Herring\".\nBaynham became a writer for the sitcom \"I'm Alan Partridge\", a spin-off of the comedy character Alan Partridge (as performed by Steve Coogan in \"The Day Today\"), an incompetent sports reporter who gets progressed as a tactless and self-satisfied television personality. Baynham thought that Alan Partridge was underdeveloped because the format of \"The Day Today\" made him \"bracketed and contained within presenting to [the] camera\". Baynham would realise that Alan Partridge would be a \"three-dimensional\" character. Baynham, with the writing team of Coogan and Iannucci, applied worldbuilding such as establishing the geography of Alan Partridge's residence of \"Linton Travel Tavern\". Coogan credited Baynham for making Alan Partridge more human and sympathetic. Baynham described his work on \"I'm Alan Partridge\" as a highly productive and enjoyable period of his career, saying \"It's my happiest, most fun writing experience ever really, it was just so exciting\".\nIn the same period, \"Fist of Fun\" transferred to television where Baynham makes an on-screen appearance of his character \"Peter\", a 32-year-old Welshman. Baynham also served as a presenter of the satirical comedy sketch show \"The Saturday Night Armistice\". Baynham created and performed the character \"Terry from Pontypridd\" in a popular television advertising campaign for Pot Noodle, promoted with the catchphrase \"they're too gorgeous\". The campaign propelled Baynham to unexpected fame which he reported that strangers would shout \"gorgeous\" at him in public and that a university student would threw a Pot Noodle at him on stage, while touring with Lee and Herring. Baynham has written with Morris for the satirical black comedy miniseries \"Brass Eye\" and its controversial special \"Paedogeddon!\" that attracted widespread media attention for its comedic portrayal of paedophilia. Baynham also wrote the \"Bob and Margaret\" episode \"Neighbors\" as well as writing the additional material for the three episodes of the sketch show \"Big Train\". He even served as a writer for the radio series \"Blue Jam\" which was adapted into the TV miniseries \"Jam\" that Baynham and Morris worked together on. Baynham also became a guest for the eighteen episodes of the radio comedy game show \"The 99p Challenge\". He created the adult animated black comedy miniseries \"I Am Not an Animal\" which follows a group of intelligent talking animals who escape a vivisection laboratory.\n2005\u2013present: Feature film.\nBaynham felt uncertain about his future in television after \"I Am Not an Animal\" was poorly received by BBC executives in which one of them said to him: \"I won't be paying a return visit to this\". Meanwhile, Baynham received a phone call from Sacha Baron Cohen who asked him if he could help continue his faltering feature film project of Borat Sagdiyev. Baynham replied that he was not interested because he was working on creating his own sitcom, but then he changed his mind and phoned Baron Cohen later that day by expressing interest and then Baynham became a writer for the 2006 mockumentary comedy film \"Borat\". After the film's success, Baynham continued his collaboration with Baron Cohen and he became a writer for the 2009 mockumentary comedy film \"Br\u00fcno\". Under director Jason Winer, he became a writer for the 2011 romantic comedy film \"Arthur\", a remake of the 1981 film of the same name.\nEarlier in 2005, Baynham conceived of a Christmas story (where Santa Claus has an \"impractical and useless\" son) and collaborated with Sarah Smith at Aardman Animations to write a screenplay for the 2011 animated film \"Arthur Christmas\". The story deals with Santa's global operation to deliver presents to every child, which Baynham said he considered with a \"pedantic\" detail such as what would be mathematically possible in 12 hours with one million elves and a mile wide spaceship. Under director Genndy Tartakovsky, Baynham became a writer for the 2012 animated film \"Hotel Transylvania\". He even became an executive producer for the 2012 political satire black comedy film \"The Dictator\" which he worked with Baron Cohen on. He collaborated with Armando Iannucci and Steve Coogan again to create an Alan Partridge feature film and he became a writer for the 2013 crime comedy film \"\". With Baron Cohen again, Baynham became a writer for the 2016 spy action comedy film \"Grimsby\" and continued this collaboration as a writer for the 2020 mockumentary comedy film \"Borat Subsequent Moviefilm\", a sequel to the previous \"Borat\" film. In 2021, Baynham launched the six-episode surreal comedy podcast series \"Brain Cigar\" with his close friend and long-time collaborator Jeremy Simmonds. In the same year, Baynham also collaborated with Smith on her animation studio Locksmith Animation's first animated feature film \"Ron's Gone Wrong\".\nReputation.\nJames Rampton of \"The Independent\" described Baynham as \"an anonymous foot-soldier in Armando Iannucci's all-conquering comedy army\". Brendon Connelley of \"/Film\" said \"Baynham isn't exactly comedy royalty in the UK \u2014 more like a secret power behind the thrones\". Baynham himself said \"It feels quite cool, in a mad way, to be someone who skulks about in the shadows\". Kathryn Williams of \"WalesOnline\" argued that Baynham, Iannucci, Steve Coogan and Chris Morris \"revolutionised both topical satire and character comedy in the 1990s\".\nPersonal life.\nBaynham settled in Los Angeles, California after completing \"Borat\". He is a citizen of the United States."}
{"id": "756623", "revid": "12331483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756623", "title": "Gibibit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756625", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756625", "title": "William O'Connell", "text": "William or Bill O'Connell may refer to:"}
{"id": "756627", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756627", "title": "William H. O'Connell", "text": ""}
{"id": "756628", "revid": "1427850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756628", "title": "William Henry O'Connell", "text": "William Henry O'Connell (December 8, 1859 \u2013 April 22, 1944) was an American cardinal of the Catholic Church. He served as archbishop of Boston in Massachusetts from 1907 until his death in 1944, and was made a cardinal in 1911. He previously served as bishop of the Diocese of Portland in Maine from 1901 to 1906.\nEarly life.\nWilliam O'Connell was born on December 8, 1859, in Lowell, Massachusetts, to John and Bridget (n\u00e9e Farrelly) O'Connell, who were Irish immigrants. The youngest of eleven children, he had six brothers and four sisters. His father worked at a textile mill and died when William was four years old. During his high school career, he excelled at music, particularly the piano and organ.\nO'Connell entered St. Charles College in Ellicott City, Maryland, in 1876. At St. Charles, he was a pupil of the poet John Banister Tabb. He returned to Massachusetts two years later and entered Boston College. He graduated there in 1881 with gold medals in philosophy, physics, and chemistry. He then furthered his studies at the Pontifical North American College in Rome.\nPriesthood.\nO'Connell was ordained to the priesthood by Cardinal Lucido Parocchi on June 8, 1884. A pneumonia and bronchial congestion cut short his pursuit of a doctorate in divinity at the Pontifical Urban Athenaeum, forcing him to return to the United States in 1885.\nThe archdiocese first assigned O'Connell as curate of St. Joseph Parish in Medford, Massachusett. In 1886, he was transferred to St. Joseph Church in the West End of Boston. Returning to Rome, O'Connell was named rector of the North American College in 1895. The Vatican elevated him to the rank of domestic prelate in 1897.\nEpiscopal career.\nBishop of Portland in Maine.\nOn February 8, 1901, O'Connell was appointed the third bishop of Portland by Pope Leo XIII. He chose for his episcopal motto \"Vigor In Arduis\" meaning \"Strength in Adversity\". He received his episcopal consecration on May 19, 1901, from Cardinal Francesco Satolli, with Archbishops Edmund Stonor and Rafael Merry del Val, in Rome at the Basilica of St. John Lateran. Upon his arrival in Maine, he was given an official reception by Governor John F. Hill. He was presented with a reliquary of the True Cross by Pope Pius X after the latter's election in 1903.\nIn 1905, in addition to his duties as a diocesan bishop, O'Connell was named papal envoy to Emperor Meiji of Japan; he was also decorated with the Grand Cordon of the Order of the Sacred Treasure and made an assistant at the pontifical throne in 1905. He was viewed as having actively campaigned to become archbishop of Boston, donating to numerous Vatican causes and publicly expressing his loyalty to the pope.\nArchbishop of Boston and Cardinal.\nO'Connell was named coadjutor archbishop of Boston with right of succession and titular archbishop of \"Constantina\" by Pope Pius X on February 21, 1906. As coadjutor, he served as the designated successor of Archbishop John Williams, then in declining health. He succeeded Williams as archbishop after his death on August 30, 1907.\nOn November 27, 1911, O'Connell became Boston's first archbishop to become cardinal, and was given the title of cardinal-priest of S. Clemente. He arrived late to two papal conclaves in a row, in 1914 and 1922, due to having to cross the Atlantic Ocean by ship. He complained about it to Pope Pius XI, who then lengthened the time period between the death of the pope and the start of the conclave. O'Connell was able to participate in the 1939 conclave.\nO'Connell favored a highly centralized diocesan organization, encompassing schools, hospitals, and asylums in addition to parishes. He wielded immense political and social power in Massachusetts, earning him the nickname \"Number One\". For instance, he was responsible for defeating a bill to establish a state lottery in 1935, and for defeating a referendum liberalizing state birth control laws in 1942. The only politician who had anywhere near O'Connell's political clout was Massachusetts Governor (and future U.S. President) Calvin Coolidge, but even Coolidge picked his battles carefully, preferring to ignore the O'Connell whenever possible. In the years leading up to the Second World War O'Connell became a powerful force for the neutralists in trying to keep the United States out of war in the pre-Pearl Harbor era.\nViews.\nHaving presided over the marriage of Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., and Rose Fitzgerald in 1914, he asked actress Gloria Swanson to end her affair with Kennedy.\nHe opposed the Child Labor Amendment and called Hollywood \"the scandal of the nation\".\nHe denounced the theories of Albert Einstein as \"authentic atheism, even if camouflaged as cosmic pantheism\".\nHe opposed euthanasia, calling suffering \"the discipline of humanity\".\nHe told his priests that they might refuse communion to women wearing lipstick.\nIn 1932, O'Connell condemned crooning, a singer style that was popular in the 1930s: \"No true American man would practice this base art. Of course, they aren't men. ... If you will listen closely [to crooners' songs] you will discern the basest appeal to sex emotion in the young.\"\nHe had a cool relationship with his auxiliary bishop Francis Spellman, who later was the Archbishop of New York. O'Connell once said, \"Francis epitomizes what happens to a bookkeeper when you teach him how to read.\"\nHe was also decidedly non-ecumenical. In 1908 he said, \"The Puritan has passed. The Catholic remains.\"\nInfluence.\nHe was very influential with the growth of the Catholic Church. He was called by politicians \"Number One\" and enjoyed them frequently requesting his approval on issues. He was called a \"battleship in full array\".\nO'Connell was the first American to be given honorary life membership in the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus.\nOther affairs.\nScandal over nephew.\nO'Connell's nephew James P. O'Connell, who served as chancellor of the archdiocese, had secretly married in 1913. Some of O'Connell's clerical enemies discovered this and reported it to Vatican authorities. The younger O'Connell was removed from office and from his priestly duties in 1920. His marriage lasted until his death in 1948. Little else is known of the relationship between uncle and nephew.\nFalsified dates of authorship.\nIn 1915, O'Connell published a collection of letters which, the publication claimed, he wrote between 1876 and 1901. In 1987, James M. O'Toole discovered that O'Connell had written the letters expressly for the 1915 publication. Other scholars who discussed the subject of the letters in 1975 had found the dates on the letters \"suspect\".\nFrances Sweeney.\nIn the early 1940s when Frances Sweeney, editor of the \"Boston City Reporter\", criticized O'Connell for his passivity in the face of rampant antisemitism in Boston, O'Connell summoned Sweeney to his office and threatened her with excommunication.\nDeath.\nWilliam O'Connell died from pneumonia in Brighton, aged 84. He was buried in the crypt of a small chapel (Immaculate Conception) he had built on the grounds of St. John's Seminary. In 2004 the Archdiocese sold the property to Boston College and in 2007 announced plans to relocate his remains to Saint Sebastian's School, which O'Connell founded in 1941. After a protracted lawsuit, O'Connell's relatives, who had opposed any disinterment, agreed that his remains would be removed to a courtyard of the Seminary. The reinterment took place on July 20, 2011.\nLegacy.\nHis 36-year-long tenure was the longest in the history of the Archdiocese of Boston. He was the second-to-last surviving cardinal created by Pope Pius X behind Gennaro Granito Pignatelli di Belmonte and is the third-longest serving American cardinal behind James Gibbons and William Wakefield Baum. During O'Connell's tenure as Archbishop of Boston, the number of women in religious life increased from 1567 to 5459; the number of parishes increased from 194 to 322; the number of churches increased from 248 to 375; the number of diocesan priests increased from 488 to 947; the archdiocese was operating 3 Catholic hospitals. According to one historian, \"It was under O'Connell's influence too, that the Catholic Church in the Archdiocese of Boston assumed a conceptual solidarity and impressive visibility that it had never seen before and would never see again.\"\nOne of O'Connell's grandnephews, Paul G. Kirk, served briefly as U.S. Senator in 2009.\nIn popular culture.\nIn Henry Morton Robinson's best-selling 1950 historical novel, \"The Cardinal\", the Archbishop of Boston in the exact time frame as O'Connell's term in office is named \"Lawrence Cardinal Glennon\". Robinson's physical descriptions of Glennon, his massive building program, his arriving late for two papal conclaves and arriving in time for a third, his popular description as \"Number One\" and many other details of the Glennon character correspond with O'Connell's career and personality. The \"Cardinal\" of the title, however, is a young priest who serves as Glennon's secretary and himself becomes a cardinal in the course of the novel.\nHymns.\nIn addition to his published volumes of letters, sermons and addresses, O'Connell's legacy includes a collection of hymns under the title \"Holy Cross Hymnal\" published by McLaughlin and Reilly, Boston, in 1915., including:"}
{"id": "756629", "revid": "18872885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756629", "title": "Michael O'Connor (American bishop)", "text": "Michael O'Connor, S.J. (September 27, 1810 \u2013 October 18, 1872) was an Irish-born prelate of the Roman Catholic Church in the United States and a member of the Society of Jesus. He served twice as bishop of the Diocese of Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania (1843 to early 1853 and late 1853 to 1860). O'Connor served briefly as bishop of the Diocese of Erie in Pennsylvania for several months in 1853.\nBiography.\nEarly life.\nMichael O'Connor was born on September 27, 1810, in Cobh, near the city of Cork, in County Cork, Ireland, then part of United Kingdom. His younger brother, James O'Connor, would serve as the first bishop of Omaha from 1885 to 1891. Michael O'Connor received his early education in Cobh, where he attended the parish school of the Cathedral of Cloyne. When O'Connor reached age 14, Bishop William Coppinger of the Catholic Diocese of Cloyne and Ross sent him to France to begin his studies for the priesthood.\nAfter finishing in France, O'Connor entered the Urban College of the Propaganda in Rome. He completed his courses in philosophy and theology with distinction, and won a gold medal for being the first in mathematics. O'Connor finished his course work before reaching the canonical age for ordination, forcing him to wait to become a priest. He spent the interval teaching sacred scriptures at the College of Propaganda. O'Connor earned a Doctor of Divinity degree following a public disputation, in which he underwent the same test made by the theologians Thomas Aquinas and Bonaventure at the University of Paris in the 13th century.\nPriesthood.\nO'Connor was ordained a priest in Rome for the Diocese of Cloyne and Ross on June 1, 1833, by Archbishop Costantino Patrizi Naro. After his ordination, the diocese appointed O'Connor as vice-rector of the Pontifical Irish College, the seminary for Irish students in Rome. He also served as an agent of the Irish bishops with the Vatican working with Pope Gregory XVI and Cardinal Nicholas Wiseman. \nWhen O'Connor returned to Ireland in 1834, the diocese assigned him as a curate in Fermoy, County Cork He also served as chaplain for the convent of the Presentation Sisters in Doneraile, County Cork He applied for the position of professor of dogmatic theology at Maynooth College in Maynooth, County Kildare. However, Reverend Peter Kenrick, an Irish priest serving in the United States, persuaded O'Connor to find a teaching position.\nIn 1839, Patrick Kenrick's brother, Bishop Francis Kenrick, invited O'Connor to join the faculty of St. Charles Borromeo Seminary in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. O'Connor accepted the offer and arrived in Philadelphia later that year. He immediately took the chair of theology at St. Charles. O'Connor also served as pastor at mission churches in Norristown, Pennsylvania and West Chester, Pennsylvania twice a month. He also founded St. Francis Xavier Parish in the Fairmount section of Philadelphia. In 1840, O'Connor left his other positions to serve as president of St. Charles Seminary.\nIn June 1841, O'Connor went to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to serve as vicar general of Western Pennsylvania. He was also appointed pastor of St. Paul's Parish in Pittsburgh. He established a parochial school and organized a literary society for young men.\nBishop of Pittsburgh (1843\u20131853).\nGiven the population growth in Western Pennsylvania, the bishops meeting at Fifth Provincial Council of Baltimore in May 1843 decided that the area needed its own diocese. They recommended that the pope erect the Diocese of Pittsburgh and appoint O'Connor as its first bishop. When Pope Gregory XVI accepted the recommendation, O'Connor traveled to Rome for hisconsecration as a bishop. However, once in Rome, he petitioned the pope to revoke his appointment, saying he wanted to join the Society of Jesus and work as one of their priests. Gregory refused, telling O'Connor, \"You shall be bishop first, and a Jesuit afterwards\". \nO'Connor accepted the pope's decision and was formally appointed the first bishop of Pittsburgh on August 11, 1843. On August 15, 1843, he received his consecration from Cardinal Giacomo Fransoni at the Church of Sant'Agata dei Goti in Rome.Before returning to Pittsburgh in December 1843, O'Connor stopped in Ireland to recruit seminarians and religious sisters for his new diocese. He persuaded eight seminarians from Maynooth College and seven Sisters of Mercy to accompany him. \nThe new Diocese of Pittsburgh contained 33 churches staffed by 14 priests that were serving approximately 25,000 Catholics. To organize the new diocese, O'Connor held the first diocesan synod in 1844. That same year, he founded a girls' academy, a chapel for Catholic African Americans, and St. Michael's Seminary in Pittsburgh. He also created a diocesan newspaper, the \"Pittsburgh Catholic\" \nTo serve the large German immigrant population in his diocese, O'Connor welcomed a contingent of Benedictine monks who founded Saint Vincent Archabbey in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. He also brought in the Franciscan Brothers from Mountbellew in County Galway, Ireland, who established their first American community in Loretto, Pennsylvania.\nBishop of Erie (1853).\nOn July 29, 1853, O'Connor was appointed the first bishop of the newly erected Diocese of Erie by Pope Pius IX. The pope appointed Reverend Joshua Young as the second bishop of Pittsburgh. However, Young was reluctant to take the appointment, Meanwhile, Catholics in Pittsburgh sent a petition to the pope asking him to return O'Connor as their bishop.\nBishop of Pittsburgh (1853\u20131860).\nOn December 20, 1853, five months after his transfer to Erie, Pius IX reappointed O'Connor as bishop of Pittsburgh.Young accepted the leadership of Erie.\nIn 1854, O'Connor was summoned to the Vatican to participate in discussions on the dogma of the Immaculate Conception. According to church historian Richard Clarke, many wording changes in the final decree were suggested by O'Connor. After the trip to Rome, his health began to decline. On the advice of his doctors, O'Connors traveled to other countries to search for a milder climate than Pennsylvania. At the end of O'Connor's tenure, the diocese contained 77 churches, 86 priests, six religious congregations, one seminary, five institutions of higher education, two orphan asylums, one hospital, and a Catholic population of 50,000.\nResignation and later life.\nO'Connor resigned as bishop of Pittsburgh on May 23, 1860. In October 1860, he left Pittsburgh for Europe. On December 22, 1860, he was admitted into the Jesuit novitiate at Gorheim, (now part of Sigmaringen), in what was then Kingdom of Prussia. In 1862, after completing the novitiate, Jesuit Superior General Peter Jan Beckx allowed O'Connor to make his solemn profession of the four religious vows immediately, bypassing the normal 15 years of full formation.\nAfter his solemn profession, the Jesuits assigned O'Connor to the Jesuit community in Boston, Massachusetts, where he made his religious profession on December 23, 1862. When Boston College was founded in 1864, he began teaching theology there. He was also appointed \"socius\" (counselor) to the Provincial Superior of the Jesuits in the United States, a position in which he remained until his death. O'Connor took a special interest in the spiritual welfare of African Americans, and delivered lectures in many parts of the United States and Canada.\nHis health failing, O'Connor was sent to rest at Woodstock College in Woodstock, Maryland, in the spring of 1872. He died there on October 18, 1872, at age 62. He is buried in the Jesuit cemetery at Woodstock."}
{"id": "756630", "revid": "12331483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756630", "title": "Tebibit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756632", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756632", "title": "Thomas P. O'Connor", "text": ""}
{"id": "756633", "revid": "939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756633", "title": "T. P. O'Connor", "text": "Thomas Power O'Connor, PC (5 October 1848 \u2013 18 November 1929), known as T. P. O'Connor and occasionally as Tay Pay (mimicking the Irish pronunciation of the initials \"T. P.\"), was an Irish nationalist politician and journalist who served as a Member of Parliament (MP) in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland for nearly fifty years.\nEarly life and education.\nO'Connor was born in Athlone, County Westmeath, on 5 October 1848. He was the eldest son of Thomas O'Connor, an Athlone shopkeeper, and his wife Teresa (n\u00e9e Power), the daughter of a non-commissioned officer in the Connaught Rangers. His family were supporters of the Liberal Party. He was educated at the College of the Immaculate Conception in Athlone, and Queen's College Galway, where he won scholarships in history and modern languages and built up a reputation as an orator, serving as auditor of the college's Literary and Debating Society.\nCareer.\nFrom 1867, O'Connor attempted unsuccessfully to gain a position in the Civil Service before working for the Royal Irish Constabulary as a reporting assistant on nationalist political demonstrations. He entered journalism as a junior reporter on \"Saunders' Newsletter\", a Dublin journal. In 1870, he moved to London, and was appointed a sub-editor on \"The Daily Telegraph\", principally on account of the utility of his mastery of French and German in reportage of the Franco-Prussian War. He later became London correspondent for \"The New York Herald\". He compiled the society magazine \"Mainly About People\" (M.A.P.) from 1898 to 1911.\nO'Connor was elected Member of Parliament for Galway Borough in the 1880 general election, as a representative of the Home Rule League (which was under the leadership of William Shaw, though virtually led by Charles Stewart Parnell, who would win the party's leadership a short time later). O'Connor had been invited to stand as the Liberal candidate for the constituency on the strength of the unflattering biography of then Conservative Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli he had written in 1878. However, after being persuaded by Parnell, O'Connor stood reluctantly as an Irish party candidate. Despite opposition from Irish Catholic clergymen to the selection of the reputedly agnostic O'Connor as the Irish Nationalist candidate, he won the seat - allegedly with some support from the Irish Republican Brotherhood - because of his vocal support for the ideals of the Irish National Land League. By now a permanent resident of London, who spoke with a London accent, he did not generally speak at land rallies but was appointed to the Land League executive by Parnell. He also made four visits to the U.S. to raise funds for his party from politically engaged Irish Americans.\nAt the next general election in 1885, O'Connor was returned both for Galway and for the Liverpool Scotland constituencies, which had a large Irish population. He chose to sit for Liverpool, and represented that constituency in the House of Commons from 1885 until his death in 1929. He remains the only British MP from an Irish nationalist party ever to be elected to a constituency outside of the island of Ireland. O'Connor continued to be re-elected in Liverpool under this label unopposed in the 1918, 1922, 1923, 1924 and 1929 general elections, despite the declaration of a \"de facto\" Irish Republic in early 1919, and the establishment by 1921 treaty of a quasi-independent Irish Free State in late 1922.\nFrom 1905, he belonged to the central leadership of the United Irish League. Although in his later years he was often criticised for distancing himself from the Irish community, he remained the most prominent Irish nationalist politician in Great Britain, and was on close terms with each successive government, and with David Lloyd George in particular. During much of his time in parliament, he wrote a nightly sketch of proceedings there for the \"Pall Mall Gazette\". He was a highly popular and respected figure among MPs from all parties. At the 1918 general election, following the retirement of Liberal-Labour MP Thomas Burt, O'Connor became \"Father of the House of Commons\", and ultimately would achieve unbroken service of 49 years, 215 days.\nO'Connor supported the Irish Reform Association, and by the 1910s, he had come to accept the idea of partition. Having drawn the admiration of even the Ulster Unionist leader Sir Edward Carson, he played a leading role in the Irish Convention in 1917. The Irish Nationalist Party ceased to exist effectively after the Sinn F\u00e9in landslide of 1918, and thereafter O'Connor effectively sat as an independent, although from the early 1910s, he had been rallying Irish people in Great Britain behind the Labour Party. On 13 April 1920, O'Connor warned the House of Commons that the death on hunger strike of Thomas Ashe would galvanise opinion in Ireland and unite all Irishmen in opposition to British rule. Just before the 1921 Northern Ireland general election O'Connor made clear his feelings on nationalist participation in the Parliament of Northern Ireland: \"...the Nationalists are determined not to give even the fig leaf of respectability to the whole rotten arrangement by attending the [northern] Parliament.\" He nonetheless supported the 1921 Anglo-Irish Treaty, although he subsequently appealed in vain to the British government to moderate its demand for a substantial contribution from the newly created Irish Free State to the imperial exchequer.\nO'Connor was appointed to the Privy Council by the first Labour government in 1924. However, he declined Lloyd George's offer of a hereditary barony, considering the House of Lords to be an elitist institution. On his eightieth birthday in 1928, O'Connor was invited to dine with King George V, and continued to attend parliamentary debates until his death.\nNewspapers and journals.\nT. P. O'Connor founded and was the first editor of several newspapers and journals: \"The Star\", the \"Weekly Sun\" (1891), \"The Sun\" (1893), \"M.A.P. and T.P.'s Weekly\" (1902). He was also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Journalists, the world's oldest journalists' organisation. It continues to honour him by having a T.P. O'Connor charity fund. In August 1906, O'Connor was instrumental in the passing by Parliament of the Musical Copyright Act 1906, also known as the T.P. O'Connor Bill, following many of the popular music writers at the time dying in poverty due to extensive piracy by gangs during the piracy crisis of sheet music in the early 20th century. The gangs would often buy a copy of the music at full price, copy it, and resell it, often at half the price of the original. The film \"I'll Be Your Sweetheart\" (1945), commissioned by the British Ministry of Information, is based on the events of the day.\nHe was appointed as the second president of the Board of Film Censors in 1916 and appeared in front of the Cinema Commission of Inquiry (1916), set up by the National Council of Public Morals where he outlined the BBFC's position on protecting public morals by listing forty-three infractions, from the BBFC 1913\u20131915 reports, on why scenes in a film may be cut.\nPersonal life.\nIn 1885, O'Connor married American woman Elizabeth Howard (n\u00e9e Paschal), whose father was Arkansas Supreme Court associate justice George W. Paschal. They had no children, rarely lived together, and had separated permanently some time before World War I broke out; however, they remained married until O'Connor's death.\nDeath.\nO'Connor fell seriously ill in 1929; a substantial collection for him was raised in the House of Commons. He died at his flat in Westminster on 18 November 1929 and is buried at St Mary's Catholic Cemetery, Kensal Green in north-west London. He was the last Father of the House to die as a sitting MP until Sir Gerald Kaufman in 2017."}
{"id": "756634", "revid": "1306352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756634", "title": "Pebibit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756635", "revid": "51556910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756635", "title": "List of football clubs in Wales", "text": "This is a list of football clubs that compete within the leagues and divisions of the Welsh football league system as far down as Level 4, that is to say, down to the first division of the Welsh Regional Leagues. The relative levels of divisions can be compared on the Welsh football league system page.\nList of leagues and divisions.\nBelow these, there are the regional feeders (starting at Level 4):"}
{"id": "756636", "revid": "69367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756636", "title": "Wilbert O'Daniel", "text": ""}
{"id": "756637", "revid": "69367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756637", "title": "Wilbert L. O'Daniel", "text": ""}
{"id": "756638", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756638", "title": "Stellan Skarsgard", "text": ""}
{"id": "756640", "revid": "12331483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756640", "title": "Exbibit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756641", "revid": "69367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756641", "title": "Wilbert Lee O'Daniel", "text": ""}
{"id": "756643", "revid": "39405234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756643", "title": "Sam Eagle", "text": "Sam Eagle is a Muppet character from the sketch comedy television series \"The Muppet Show\", best known for his intense American patriotism and disciplined manner of being. Sam originated on the television series, where he was performed by Frank Oz. Sam has appeared in every Muppet film; as himself in \"The Muppet Movie\", \"The Great Muppet Caper\", \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\", \"Muppets from Space\", and \"The Muppets\", as well as the Head Schoolmaster in \"The Muppet Christmas Carol,\" Samuel Arrow in \"Muppet Treasure Island\" and a CIA agent in \"Muppets Most Wanted.\" The character also appears in the role of an ABC executive for broadcast standards and practices in the television series, \"The Muppets.\"\nBackground.\nAlso known as Sammy or Samuel, Sam's overtly patriotic spirit distinguishes him from the rest of the Muppet cast, as does his general stuffiness and pomposity. It has been a running gag in either \"The Muppet Show\", or the Muppet movies, that his nationalism is represented towards the United States. He is an American bald eagle, America's national bird, covered in light blue feathers with a perpetually furrowed, black unibrow and a literally balding head. His name references Uncle Sam, the national personification of the U.S.\nCharacter traits.\nSam often railed against the 'low brow' entertainment he claimed was on the show, and often tried to bring 'dignity and class' to the performances, usually without any real success. During the first season, Sam would introduce two Muppet characters named Wayne and Wanda who would often sing various songs that were considered by Sam to be 'normal' and 'high brow' when compared to the rest of the show and its cast. \nOn the show, Sam acts as a censor and comments on his being under-appreciated. He often gives self-important lectures in which he espouses some conservative idea only to find himself forced to stop in embarrassment at risk of sounding like a hypocrite. On one occasion, he gives a lecture about conservationism in which he reads a list of endangered animal species that he feels are the focus of misguided conservation efforts, only to sheepishly withdraw his statement when he realizes that his own species is included. In another sketch, he lectures on indecency because all people are nude underneath their clothes, leaving the podium in embarrassment upon realizing that all birds are similarly nude underneath their feathers.\nThroughout the first season of \"The Muppet Show\", Sam introduces his favorite singing duo, Wayne and Wanda, with gushing aplomb, praising them for their appropriateness. Although they are never able to finish a song (their routines always end with slapstick violence), Sam still adores them because they appeal to his conservative sensibilities: the couple sings old standards like \"You Do Something to Me\" and \"It's Only a Paper Moon\".\nThough he claims to be a cultured bird, close observation reveals that Sam knows nothing about culture, especially the culture of his own country. He has mistaken Beethoven for a playwright and thinks \"The Sound of Music\" was written by William Shakespeare. When informed that ballet dancer Rudolf Nureyev would be the guest star (Episode 213), Sam declared Nureyev as his favorite opera singer. Also when Nureyev arrived, Sam didn't recognize him and ejected him from the theater. Sam is often hostile toward others who do not possess similar views to his own.\nSam does not interact with the guest stars of the show as often as the rest of the cast, but he is featured prominently in several episodes. In one, he throws casually dressed guest star Rudolf Nureyev out of the building in a fit of temper, mistaking him for a bum. Although he is forgiven by Nureyev, he is still disheartened because Mr. Nureyev (whom he believes is an opera singer rather than a ballet dancer) did not live up to his expectations. In another, he seeks out Zero Mostel \u2013 who he believes to be \"a man of dignity\", and thus, a kindred spirit \u2013 only for Mostel to literally mock him behind his back during his usual tirade. Similarly, Sam makes a bet with Kermit the Frog claiming that Mozart would never dress flamboyantly like Elton John, who he believes \"\"\"dresses like a stolen car.\" Scooter proves him wrong by showing a painting of Mozart with his powdered wig, coat, and stockings and thus Sam is forced to introduce John in a flamboyant, albeit patriotic, costume and literally eat his own hat. During the third season's Halloween episode, Sam confronts Alice Cooper. Railing against the audience and \"indecency\" and \"low brow\" humor, Sam calls Cooper a \"demented, sick, degenerate, barbaric, naughty, Freako!\" Rather than being insulted by these comments as Sam was intending, Cooper takes it as a compliment and thanks Sam, to which Sam despairingly retorts, \"Freakos one, civilization zero.\"\nOn \"Muppets Tonight\", Sam periodically hosted a debate show a la The McLaughlin Group, entitled \"From The Eagle's Nest\". Unfortunately, the only permanent debaters were Miss Piggy's dimwitted nephews Andy &amp; Randy, who routinely got the better of him. His tagline for the show was \"Let's talk POLITICS!\"\nOn \"Jim Henson's Animal Show\", Sam was the only Muppet character to make a crossover appearance, guest-starring in the third-season episode \"Bald Eagle\".\nFilm appearances.\nSam has appeared in every major Muppet feature film, usually only as a supporting roles (\"The Muppet Movie\", \"The Great Muppet Caper\", \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\", \"The Muppet Christmas Carol\", \"Muppets from Space\"). However, in \"Muppet Treasure Island\", he played the first mate Samuel Arrow and thus takes a more active role in the story.\nIn \"The Muppets\", Sam is employed at a political news television station hosting a segment called \"Everything Stinks\", though he soon finds himself reuniting with the other Muppets. He is later seen as one of the phone operators of \"The Muppet Telethon\" and as part of the barbershop quartet performing \"Smells Like Teen Spirit\" with Rowlf the Dog, Link Hogthrob and Beaker. He also participates in the telethon's \"Rainbow Connection\" finale.\nIn \"Muppets Most Wanted\", Sam plays a fairly major role as a CIA agent who reluctantly collaborates with Interpol agent Jean Pierre Napoleon (Ty Burrell) to solve a series of burglaries in Europe. Sam and Napoleon interrogate the Muppets but learn nothing useful, and they mistakenly arrest Kermit the Frog and Fozzie Bear for the thefts.\nIn the TV series \"The Muppets\", Sam is a main character and is in charge of the broadcast standards and practices for ABC. He also develops a romantic interest in Janice.\nCasting history.\nPrimary Performers\nOther Performers"}
{"id": "756644", "revid": "1306352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756644", "title": "Zebibit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756649", "revid": "47033785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756649", "title": "William Draper", "text": "William Draper may refer to:"}
{"id": "756650", "revid": "1306352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756650", "title": "Yobibit", "text": ""}
{"id": "756651", "revid": "44522647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756651", "title": "Osakeyhti\u00f6", "text": "' (; \"stock company\"), often abbreviated to Oy (), is the term for a Finnish limited company (e.g., Ltd, LLC, or GmbH). The Swedish-language term is ', often abbreviated (in Finland) to Ab. The Swedish abbreviation is sometimes included, as in \"Ab Company Oy\", \"Oy Company Ab\", or \"Company Oy Ab\". The abbreviations have been styled in many ways, such as \"Oy\", \"OY\", \"O.Y.\", or even \"O/Y\". The English form is \"Ltd.\"\n\"Julkinen osakeyhti\u00f6\".\n\"Julkinen osakeyhti\u00f6\" (pl. \"julkiset osakeyhti\u00f6t\") means \"public stock company\" and is abbreviated to Oyj (). A \"julkinen osakeyhti\u00f6\" can be listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki. The term's Swedish equivalent is Abp (\"publikt aktiebolag\"). A \"julkinen osakeyhti\u00f6\" may be called a public limited company or public company in English and may use the abbreviation PLC or the term Corporation in the company's English name, for example Finnair Plc, Remedy Entertainment Plc, Kone Corporation and Nokia Corporation."}
{"id": "756653", "revid": "45266726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756653", "title": "Kopi luwak", "text": "Kopi luwak, also known as civet coffee, is a coffee that consists of partially digested coffee cherries, which have been eaten and defecated by the Asian palm civet (\"Paradoxurus hermaphroditus\"). The cherries are fermented as they pass through a civet's intestines, and after being defecated with other fecal matter, they are collected. These civets are increasingly caught in the wild and traded for this purpose.\nKopi luwak is produced mainly on the Indonesian islands of Sumatra, Java, Bali, Sulawesi, and in East Timor. It is also widely gathered in the forest or produced in farms in the islands of the Philippines, where the product is called in the Cordillera region, in Tagalog areas, or in Mindanao, and in the Sulu Archipelago.\nKopi luwak is also produced in Palawan's Langogan Valley. The beans from droppings of the Asian palm civet and Palawan binturong (\"Arctictis binturong whitei\") are collected from the forest floor and cleaned.\nProducers of the coffee beans argue that the process may improve coffee through two mechanisms: selection, where civets choose to eat only certain cherries; and digestion, where biological or chemical mechanisms in the animals' digestive tracts alter the composition of the coffee cherries.\nThe traditional method of collecting feces from wild Asian palm civets has given way to an intensive farming method, in which the palm civets are kept in battery cages and are force-fed the cherries. This method of production has raised ethical concerns about the treatment of civets and the conditions they are made to live in, which include isolation, poor diet, small cages, and a high mortality rate.\nAlthough kopi luwak is a form of processing rather than a variety of coffee, it has been called one of the most expensive coffees in the world, with retail prices reaching for farmed beans and for wild-collected beans. Another epithet for it is the \"Holy Grail of coffees\".\nHistory.\nThe origin of kopi luwak is closely connected to the history of coffee production in Indonesia; Dutch colonialists established coffee plantations in Indonesia and imported beans from Yemen. In the 19th century, farmers in central Java started to brew and drink coffee from excreted beans collected at their plantations.\nProduction.\nKopi luwak is brewed from coffee beans that traversed the gastrointestinal tract of an Asian palm civet, and were thus subjected to a combination of acidic, enzymatic, and fermentation treatment. During digestion, digestive enzymes and gastric juices permeate through the endocarp of coffee cherries and break down storage proteins, yielding shorter peptides. This alters the composition of amino acids and impacts the aroma of the coffee. In the roasting process, the proteins undergo a non-enzymatic Maillard reaction.\nThe palm civet is thought to select the ripest and most flawless coffee cherries. This selection influences the flavour of the coffee, as does the digestive process. The beans begin to germinate by malting, which reduces their bitterness. When performed in nature, or in the wild, these two mechanisms achieve the same goal as selective picking and the wet or washed process of coffee milling: 1) harvesting optimally ripe cherries and 2) mechanically and chemically removing the pulp and skin from the cherry, leaving mainly the seed.\nTraditionally, excreted coffee beans were collected directly in plantations and forests. As the international demand for kopi luwak increased, some producers turned to caged production methods to increase yields. It is produced in Indonesia, East Timor, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam and Ethiopia.\nTaste.\nThe taste of kopi luwak varies with the type and origin of the excreted beans, processing, roasting, aging, and brewing. The ability of the civet to select its berries, and other aspects of the civet's diet and health, like stress levels, may also influence the processing and, hence taste.\nWithin the coffee industry, kopi luwak is widely regarded as a gimmick or novelty item. The Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) states that there is a \"general consensus within the industry...it just tastes bad\". A coffee professional compared the same beans with and without the kopi luwak process using a rigorous coffee cupping evaluation. He concluded: \"It was apparent that luwak coffee sold for the story, not superior quality...Using the SCAA cupping scale, the luwak scored two points below the lowest of the other three coffees. It would appear that the luwak processing diminishes good acidity and flavor and adds smoothness to the body, which is what many people seem to note as a positive to the coffee.\" Professional coffee tasters were able to distinguish kopi luwak from other coffee samples, but remarked that it tasted \"thin\". Some critics claim more generally that kopi luwak is simply bad coffee, purchased for novelty rather than taste.\nA food writer reviewed kopi luwak available to American consumers and concluded, \"It tasted just like...Folgers. Stale. Lifeless. Petrified dinosaur droppings steeped in bathtub water. I couldn't finish it.\"\nA comparative chemical study revealed that civet-processed \"Robusta\" beans contained significantly higher total fat elevated levels of caprylic methyl ester and capric acid methyl ester; these compounds are commonly used as flavouring agents and are associated with creamy, dairy-like notes.\nImitation.\nSeveral commercial processes attempt to replicate the digestive process of the civets without animal involvement. Researchers with the University of Florida have been issued with a patent for one such process. Brooklyn-based food startup Afineur has also developed a patented fermentation technology that reproduces some of the taste aspects of Kopi Luwak while improving coffee bean taste and nutritional profile.\nVietnamese companies sell an imitation kopi luwak, made using an enzyme soak which they claim replicates the civet's digestive process.\nImitation has several motivations. The high price of kopi luwak drives the search for a way to produce kopi luwak in large quantities. Kopi luwak production involves a great deal of labour, whether farmed or wild-gathered. The small production quantity and the labor involved in production contribute to the coffee's high cost. Imitation may be a response to the decrease in the civet population.\nAnimal welfare.\nGrowing numbers of intensive civet \"farms\" have been established and are operated in Southeast Asia, confining tens of thousands of animals to live in battery cages and be force-fed.\n\"The conditions are awful, much like battery chickens\", said Chris Shepherd, deputy regional director of TRAFFIC in Southeast Asia. \"The civets are taken from the wild and have to endure horrific conditions. They fight to stay together, but they are separated and have to bear a very poor diet in very small cages. There is a high mortality rate, and for some species of civet, there's a real conservation risk. It is spiraling out of control\". The trade in palm civets for the production of kopi luwak may constitute a significant threat to wild populations.\nIn 2013, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) investigators found wild-caught civets on farms in Indonesia and the Philippines. They were deprived of exercise, proper diet, and space. Video footage from the investigation shows abnormal behaviours such as repeated pacing, circling, or biting the bars of their cages. The animals often lose their fur. A BBC investigation revealed similar conditions. Farmers using caged palm civets in north Sumatra confirmed that they supplied kopi luwak beans to exporters whose produce ends up in Europe and Asia.\nTony Wild, the coffee executive responsible for bringing kopi luwak to the Western world, has stated he no longer supports using kopi luwak due to animal cruelty and launched a campaign called \"Cut the Crap\" to halt the use of kopi luwak.\nPrice and availability.\nKopi luwak is one of the most expensive coffees in the world, selling for between in 2010. The price paid to collectors in the Philippines is closer to US$20 per kilogram. The specialty Vietnamese \"weasel coffee\", which is made by collecting coffee beans eaten by wild civets, is sold at US$500 per kilogram. Most customers are Asian, especially those originating from Japan, China, and South Korea.\nSome specialty coffee shops sell cups of brewed kopi luwak for US$35\u201380.\nAuthenticity and fraud.\nInvestigations by PETA and the BBC found fraud to be rife in the kopi luwak industry, with producers willing to label coffee from caged civets with a \"wild sourced\" or similar label.\nGenuine kopi luwak from wild civets is difficult to purchase in Indonesia and proving it is not fake is very difficult \u2013 there is little enforcement regarding use of the name \"kopi luwak\", and there's even a local cheap coffee brand named \"Luwak\", which costs under US$3 per kilogram but is occasionally sold online under the guise of real kopi luwak \nVariations.\nCoffee beans can be \"seeded\" with the same microbes as in civet gut to produce the same coffee flavor without having to deal with civet excrement.\nThe binturong is also sometimes kept captive for the production of kopi luwak.\nThere are reports of a kopi luwak type process occurring naturally with muntjac and birds. Bat coffee is another variation that is in demand. Bats feed on the ripest coffee and fruits and spit out the seeds. These seeds are dried and processed to make coffee with a slight fruity flavor.\nIn popular culture.\nIn the movie \"The Bucket List\", billionaire health care magnate Edward Cole (played by Jack Nicholson) brings kopi luwak with him on all of his travels but is unaware of how the drink is produced. Carter Chambers (Morgan Freeman) explains how civets defecate kopi luwak coffee beans, and that the gastric juices of the defecated beans give kopi luwak its unique aroma.\nThe Japanese manga series \"Beastars\" features an anthropomorphic civet character named Deshico that produces kopi luwak."}
{"id": "756655", "revid": "13723007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756655", "title": "Benjamin Odell", "text": "Benjamin Odell may refer to:"}
{"id": "756656", "revid": "15934865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756656", "title": "Benjamin Odell, Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "756657", "revid": "45789152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756657", "title": "Arabica (journal)", "text": "Arabica is a peer-review academic journals of Arab studies founded in 1954 by Evariste L\u00e9vi-Proven\u00e7al. The journal has been published by Brill Publishers since 1980. It is currently edited by Jean-Charles Coulon, and was in the past edited by Mohammed Arkoun.\nAbstracting and indexing.\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in the following bibliographic databases:\nAccording to Scopus, it has a 2020 CiteScore of 0.7, ranking 60th out of 845 journals in the category \"Literature and Literary Theory\"."}
{"id": "756658", "revid": "15934865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756658", "title": "Benjamin Odell Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "756660", "revid": "15934865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756660", "title": "Benjamin B. Odell Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "756661", "revid": "56299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756661", "title": "Robusta", "text": ""}
{"id": "756662", "revid": "15934865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756662", "title": "Benjamin B. Odell, Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "756664", "revid": "15934865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756664", "title": "Benjamin B. Odell", "text": ""}
{"id": "756665", "revid": "15934865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756665", "title": "Benjamin Baker Odell", "text": ""}
{"id": "756667", "revid": "15934865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756667", "title": "Benjamin Baker Odell, Jr.", "text": ""}
{"id": "756671", "revid": "52090890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756671", "title": "Benjamin Odell (politician)", "text": "Benjamin Barker Odell Jr. (January 14, 1854May 9, 1926) was an American businessman and politician who served as the 34th governor of New York from 1901 to 1904.\nEarly life.\nBorn in Newburgh, New York, in 1854, Odell's father, Benjamin B. Odell Sr., was a leading businessman who served twelve years as the city's mayor. Odell studied at Bethany College in West Virginia, and at the Columbia College of Columbia University. While he would have graduated in 1877, Odell dropped out of school in his junior year, returning to Newburgh to help in his father's business.\nOdell worked his way up to head his father's ice business, starting as the driver of an ice delivery truck, earning $2 per day. Having become familiar with the people of the Newburgh area, Odell participated in the political affairs of his father, which would allow him to become involved in the politics of his home town, turning a bellwether Democratic city into one strongly Republican. He would go on to be appointed Ice Controller of New York during the First World War, and later president of both the Consolidated Gas, Electric Light, Heat, and Power Company of Newburgh and of the Central Hudson Steamboat Company. During his early days in politics, Odell ran unsuccessfully for town supervisor of New Windsor, as well as losing a bid for New York State Senate after being drafted for the Republican nomination in a heavily Democratic district.\nEarly political career.\nIn 1894, Odell was elected as a Republican to the 54th United States Congress, serving New York's 17th congressional district, at that time encompassing Orange, Rockland, and Sullivan Counties. He ran for, and was reelected in 1896, but declined in 1898. He became one of the most powerful New York Republican operatives in of his time, serving for ten years as chairman of the Republican State Executive Committee, both before and after his two terms in Congress. In 1896, at the state convention called by Thomas C. Platt, Odell narrowly lost nomination for governor; having received an 11\u20135 vote in favor of his nomination, Platt was convinced overnight that Frank S. Black was the superior candidate, and Black was subsequently nominated for, and won the governorship in 1896.\nIn 1898, Odell was the first to suggest to Republican boss Thomas C. Platt that Theodore Roosevelt ought to be the Republican candidate for governor, which met Platt's protest. With Platt convinced that Roosevelt was a figure who would disturb state politics, Odell used his position as the Republicans' state chairman to convince Platt that Governor Black would lose reelection if nominated in 1898. Returning as a hero from the Spanish\u2013American War, Roosevelt's campaign, under Odell's management, would win the governorship by a comfortable margin in 1898. In his biography, then former President Roosevelt would say Odell was one of three men most responsible for his candidacy being pressed on Platt.\nGovernorship (1901\u20131904).\nIn the state election of 1900, Thomas C. Platt wanted to 'rid himself' of Theodore Roosevelt from the governorship of New York. Devising a scheme to have Roosevelt nominated to replace the late Garret Hobart as vice president to President William McKinley, Platt placed Odell as nominee for governor in 1900. Odell would go on to handily defeat John B. Stanchfield in the general election to succeed Theodore Roosevelt as Governor of New York.\nTaking office on January 1, 1901, Odell was the first New York governor of the twentieth century. As governor, Odell reduced the state tax, simplified governance of state insane asylums into the State Commission on Lunacy, and broke with allegiance to Thomas C. Platt, making independent decisions for his administration. In the state election of 1902, Odell won reelection to a second term, and Thomas Platt's control over Republican politics in the state waned.\nIn his second term as governor, Odell pressed for a referendum to enlarge the Erie Canal, which was approved. He opposed and vetoed \"special legislation\" and \"personal bills\" passed by the legislature, which were focused on individual interests.\nLegacy.\nIn the 1920 presidential election, Odell was a presidential elector for Warren G. Harding and Calvin Coolidge.\nAfter six months of prolonged illness in late 1925 to early 1926, Benjamin B. Odell died on May 9, 1926, in his home town of Newburgh, surrounded by family. Odell's death came with praise from prominent New York politicians. Former secretary of state, future chief justice, and fellow former governor Charles Evans Hughes said of Odell:\nFormer governor and fellow Republican Nathan L. Miller said:\nIncumbent Democratic governor Al Smith said of Odell's death:"}
{"id": "756674", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756674", "title": "William Odom", "text": ""}
{"id": "756676", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756676", "title": "William E. Odom", "text": ""}
{"id": "756680", "revid": "754264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756680", "title": "Ayria", "text": "Ayria is a Canadian futurepop/synthpop musical project formed in early 2003 by Toronto's Jennifer Parkin following her departure from the futurepop and EBM band Epsilon Minus.\nBiography.\nThe first Ayria album, \"Debris\", was released on Alfa Matrix in 2003. \nDuring this period, Parkin performed guest vocals for several other projects, including Belgium's A\u00efboforcen and Implant, and Mexico's Isis Signum, some of which she would return to later on, such as the late 2011 release of two songs with A\u00efboforcen.\nIn late 2005, touring for \"Flicker\" commenced with several Canadian dates, a UK Festival (Interzone in Cardiff, the first European performance by Ayria), and a U.S. West Coast tour. 2006 saw many more opportunities for Ayria such as a first ever European tour in November as well as a debut performance in Osaka, Japan. As of 2008, Ayria was continuing a full United States tour as the supporting act for The Cr\u00fcxshadows. She has played successful shows at DragonCon, alongside figures such as Sir Patrick Stewart, most recently in 2011, and has also performed with the seminal EBM/synthpop band VNV Nation.\nThe first two songs by Ayria since the release of \"Flicker\" included \"The Gun Song\", featured on the compilation \"Alfa Matrix - Re:connected [2.0]\", released in August 2006 and \"Six Seconds On All Sides\" released on Dancing Ferret's \"Asleep By Dawn\" compilation in fall of 2006. The third full-length album, \"Hearts For Bullets\", was released on September 12, 2008, featuring these two songs.\nAll of her albums have thus far come with double CD versions available that feature a collection of remixed tracks and other inclusions such as side projects and covers.\nAyria's fourth full-length album, \"Plastic Makes Perfect\", released May 24, 2013, during their North American tour with Project Pitchfork.\nOn April 22, 2016, she released a fifth full-length, titled \"Paper Dolls\". It came in both a single CD, a two disc deluxe version and as a strictly limited pink vinyl. The second CD is a spiritual sequel to the bonus disc \"Planet Parkin\" that came with her third album \"Hearts for Bullets\", titled \"The Heartless Kingdom\".\nTouring members.\nAyria has performed with various band members for her live performances, which have included Mike Wimer of VNV Nation, Eric Gottesman, Shaun Frandsen, Joe Byer (v01d), Cam Eleon, Justin Pogue, and Kevin Toole. For her North American tour with Project Pitchfork in 2013, Sarah Wimer joined the live group; whereas in 2014, the live formation was completed by Michael Linke, who since then has played the keys beside of Sarah Wimer on various European shows of Ayria."}
{"id": "756681", "revid": "1869658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756681", "title": "William Eldridge Odom", "text": "William Eldridge Odom (June 23, 1932 \u2013 May 30, 2008) was a United States Army lieutenant general who served as Director of the National Security Agency under President Ronald Reagan, which culminated a 31-year career in military intelligence, mainly specializing in matters relating to the Soviet Union. After his retirement from the military, he became a think tank policy expert and a university professor and became known for his outspoken criticism of the Iraq War and warrantless wiretapping of American citizens. He died of an apparent heart attack at his vacation home in Lincoln, Vermont.\nBiography.\nEarly in his military career, he observed Soviet military activities while serving as a military liaison in Potsdam, East Germany. Later, he taught courses in Russian history at West Point, New York, and while serving at the United States embassy in Moscow in the early 1970s, he visited all of the republics of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Although constantly trailed by KGB, he nonetheless managed to smuggle out a large portion of Alexander Solzhenitsyn's archive, including the author's membership card for the Writers' Union and Second World War military citations; Solzhenitsyn subsequently paid tribute to Odom's role in his memoir \"Invisible Allies\" (1995).\nUpon returning to the United States, he resumed his career at West Point where he taught courses in Soviet politics. Odom regularly stressed the importance of education for military officers.\nIn 2003, he revealed how the question of the 1967 USS \"Liberty\" incident\u2019s deliberateness \u201cjust wasn\u2019t a disputed issue\u201d within the NSA. Along with NSA Deputy Director for Operations Oliver Kirby, U.S. Air Force Major General John E. Morrison (Kirby\u2019s successor), and Admiral Bobby Ray Inman, he said he was unaware of any agency official at any time who dissented from the \u201cdeliberate\u201d conclusion.\nIn 1977, he was appointed as the military assistant to Zbigniew Brzezinski, the hawkish assistant for national security affairs to President Jimmy Carter. Among the primary issues he focused on were American-Soviet relations, including the SALT nuclear weapons talks, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the Iran hostage crisis, presidential directives on the situation in the Persian Gulf, terrorism and hijackings, and the executive order on telecommunications policy.\nFrom 2 November 1981 to 12 May 1985, Odom served as the Army's Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence. From 1985 to 1988, he served as the director of the National Security Agency, the United States' largest intelligence agency, under president Ronald Reagan.\nOdom was a Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, where he specialized in military issues, intelligence, and international relations. He was also an adjunct professor at Yale University and Georgetown University, where he taught seminar courses in U.S. National Security Policy and Russian Politics. He earned a national reputation as an expert on the Soviet military.\nSince 2005, he had argued that U.S. interests would be best served by an immediate withdrawal from Iraq, having called the 2003 U.S. invasion the worst strategic blunder in the history of U.S. foreign policy. He had also been critical of the NSA's warrantless wiretapping of international calls, having said \"it wouldn't have happened on my watch\". Odom was also openly critical of the neoconservative influence in the decision to go to war: \"It's pretty hard to imagine us going into Iraq without the strong lobbying efforts from the AIPAC and the [neoconservatives], who think they know what's good for Israel more than Israel knows.\"\nOdom was a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame and the American Philosophical Society. He was also a member of the advisory council of the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation.\nBibliography.\nTelevision and radio appearances.\nAlso has published newspaper op-ed pieces in \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The Washington Post\" and others."}
{"id": "756686", "revid": "44428614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756686", "title": "Seabeck, Washington", "text": "Seabeck is an unincorporated community and census-designated place (CDP) in Kitsap County, Washington, United States. The population was 1,105 at the 2010 census Seabeck is a former mill town on Hood Canal. and had increased to 1,143 by the 2020 census.\nEtymology.\nThe name \"Seabeck\" comes from the Twana \"/\u026cq\u00e1baq\u02b7/\", from \"/\u026c-/\", \"far\", \"/qab/\", \"smooth, calm\", and \"/-aq\u02b7/\", \"water\".\nIn his narrative of his voyage down the Hood Canal in 1792, Captain George Vancouver made no mention of the Seabeck area. The first known use of the place name \"Seabeck\" dates from the United States Exploring Expedition of 1838 to 1842. On May 16, 1841, Captain Charles Wilkes of the expedition ordered Lieutenant Augustus Case to take four boats and survey the Hood Canal. Wilkes wrote of the strait:\nHoods Canal branches off from Admiralty Inlet at Suquamish Head, where it is two miles wide. Its direction is south-southeast, five miles; it then turns to the south-southwest, six miles; thence to Squaller's Point, southeast, six miles, turning again to the west-southwest, three miles to Nukolowap Point, south point to Toandons Peninsula, which divides the north branch from the canal. Continuing on this course across the mouth of the north branch, for four miles, is Quatsap Point, passing the harbor and point of Scabock [sic.] Harbor on the east then southwest, three miles to Triton Head ...\nHistory.\nSeabeck was founded in 1856 by Marshall Blinn and William Adams, doing business as the Washington Mill Company. Their lumber was in such demand they built a second mill, then a shipyard to build boats to haul the lumber to California, which had high demand due to the California Gold Rush. Eventually, along with four saloons, the town had two general stores and two hotels. In 1876, there were over 400 people living in Seabeck. After decades of success, in the 1880s the demand had eased, and most of the easily accessible trees had been harvested. In August 1886 a spark from the ship \"Retriever\" started a fire that consumed both mills, along with other buildings. Rumors flew that the mills would not be re-built, so most residents moved to other towns with mills, notably Port Hadlock, turning Seabeck into a virtual ghost town. In 1914, the old townsite was purchased by Laurence Colman and revived as a retreat for Puget Sound's YMCA &amp; YWCA clubs, and eventually all non-profit groups. Several surviving buildings from the 1850s-60s were refurbished and today form the campus of the Seabeck Conference Center.\nSeabeck is a mostly rural area, consisting primarily of the conference center across the road and lagoon from the general store, coffee shop, antique store, a pizza parlor and Olympic View Marina. There are houses and a now-demolished elementary school that served the areas around Seabeck. The population was 1,105 at the 2010 census.\nSeabeck is the hometown of figure skater Ashley Wagner.\nShipbuilding.\nUnder the direction of William J. Adams, the Washington Mill Company undertook the role of a shipyard, constructing vessels for a brief period of time in the late 1800s. In total, the Washington Mill Company is responsible for creating at least seven vessels of varying type within the city of Seabeck.\nConstructed ships.\nSource:\nGeography.\nSeabeck is in western Kitsap County, along the southeastern shore of Hood Canal. It is northwest of Bremerton. The village of Seabeck is in the center of the Seabeck CDP, which extends east to Big Beef Creek and west to Stavis Bay. Scenic Beach State Park is in the western part of the CDP. Lake William Symington is directly south, a few kilometers away from the southern boundaries of the city.\nAccording to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Seabeck CDP has a total area of , of which are land and , or 21.85%, are water.\nNotable places.\nSeabeck Conference Center.\nIn the early 1900s, Laurence Colman and Arn Allen of Seattle formed a partnership to build a facility for YMCA and YWCA groups to hold summer conferences. In 1914, Lawrence Coleman and his brother George purchased much of the original Seabeck site. In 1936, Laurence Colman's son, Ken Colman, incorporated the conference grounds as a private, nonprofit corporation. He deeded to the corporation the that now make up Seabeck Conference Center. The center is available for events during the year. For over thirty years, the Seattle Lighthouse for the Blind has held its annual retreat there, hosting deaf-blind visitors from across the nation and world.\nSeabeck Elementary.\nThe town's primary school, Seabeck Elementary, offered kindergarten through sixth grade. It had a long and locally significant history and thus was supported by the community. The school closed at the end of the 2006-07 school year. Demolition of the old school building started in autumn of 2019, and is planned to become the new location of the area's fire department. The school gym, which was built separate from the school in 1990, will remain standing. The field and track will also remain open, and both are available for use and open to community recreation.\nIn 2021 the newly formed Seabeck Community Center began operations on the site, using the renovated school-gym building, and featuring a farmers' market during the summer months.\nSeabeck Cemetery.\nThe Seabeck Cemetery lies in the woods of Seabeck near the elementary school. It is a popular attraction among locals due to its antiquity that is only locally challenged by the Buena Vista Cemetery in Port Gamble.\nScenic Beach State Park.\nThe Scenic Beach State Park in the western part of the CDP began as the Emel family's homesite in 1911. The site became a resort, then a state park, offering areas for visitors to boat, camp, or picnic.\nGuillemot Cove Nature Reserve.\nThe Kitsap County Guillemot Cove Nature Reserve is southwest of Seabeck and was the property of the Reynolds family from 1939 to 1993. The area is open to the public. Attractions include a hollowed-out stump of a red cedar, referred to as the Stump House."}
{"id": "756690", "revid": "20836525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756690", "title": "Mibibyte", "text": ""}
{"id": "756695", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756695", "title": "Leopoldo O'Donnell 1st Duke of Tetu\u00e1n", "text": ""}
{"id": "756701", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756701", "title": "Ericksonian hypnosis", "text": ""}
{"id": "756706", "revid": "51623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756706", "title": "Manuel Apolinario Odria", "text": ""}
{"id": "756707", "revid": "50910929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756707", "title": "Lee Konitz", "text": "Leon \"Lee\" Konitz (October 13, 1927 \u2013 April 15, 2020) was an American jazz alto saxophonist and composer.\nHe performed successfully in a wide range of jazz styles, including bebop, cool jazz, and avant-garde jazz. Konitz's association with the cool jazz movement of the 1940s and 1950s includes participation in Miles Davis's \"Birth of the Cool\" sessions and his work with pianist Lennie Tristano. He was one of relatively few alto saxophonists of this era to retain a distinctive style, when Charlie Parker exerted a massive influence. Like other students of Tristano, Konitz improvised long, melodic lines with the rhythmic interest coming from odd accents, or odd note groupings suggestive of the imposition of one time signature over another. Other saxophonists were strongly influenced by Konitz, such as Paul Desmond and Art Pepper.\nHe died during the COVID-19 pandemic from complications brought on by the disease.\nBiography.\nEarly life.\nKonitz was born in 1927 in Chicago to Jewish emigrants Abraham Konitz (1897\u20131964) and Anna Getlin (1900\u20131973). Konitz had two older brothers, Sol (1919\u20131997) and Herman (later Herman Kaye; 1921\u20132005).\nHis father, who was born in Brody, Austria-Hungary (now Ukraine), operated a laundry business in the back of which the family lived. His mother was born in the Pinsk District (now Belarus). Lee went to Hebrew school for a short time and went to synagogue sometimes. The Konitz family was not strict religiously, but observed Jewish holidays and some dietary laws. Lee was ambivalent about traditional Jewish culture and said, \"there was something in-groupish about the Jewish people that I saw, that I didn't like\u2013there was always that word \"Gentile\" which I hated.\" Neither of his parents were musical but were supportive of Konitz's interest in music.\nAged 11, inspired by Benny Goodman, Konitz received his first clarinet. He received classical training from Lou Honig who also taught Johnny Griffin and Eddie Harris. A year later, his admiration for Lester Young led him to drop the instrument in favour of the tenor saxophone. He eventually moved from tenor to alto. He received saxophone training from Santy Runyon. Konitz's early influences were big band horn players such as Johnny Hodges, Roy Eldridge, Willie Smith and Scoops Carry. He also greatly admired Louis Armstrong and credited the influence Benny Carter's solo on \"I Can't Believe that You're in Love with Me\" had on him.\nCareer.\nKonitz began his professional career in 1945 with the Teddy Powell band as a replacement for Charlie Ventura. A month later, the band broke up. Between 1945 and 1947, he worked intermittently with Jerry Wald. In 1946, he met pianist Lennie Tristano, and the two men worked together in a small cocktail bar. His next substantial work was with Claude Thornhill in 1947 with Gil Evans arranging and Gerry Mulligan as a composer.\nHe participated with Miles Davis in a group that had a brief booking in September 1948 and another the following year, but he also recorded with the band in 1949 and 1950; the tracks were later compiled on the album \"Birth of the Cool\" (Capitol, 1957). In his autobiography, Davis related that some Black musicians resented his hiring of Konitz: \"Then a lot of black musicians came down on my case about their not having work, and here I was hiring white guys in my band. So I just told them that if a guy could play as good as Lee Konitz played \u2014 that's who they were mad about most, because there were a lot of black alto players around \u2014 I would hire him every time [...] I'm hiring a motherfucker to play, not for what color he is.\"\nKonitz stated he considered the group to belong to Mulligan. His debut as leader also came in 1949 with tracks collected on the album \"Subconscious-Lee\". (Prestige, 1955). He turned down an opportunity to work with Goodman in 1949, a decision he later regretted. Parker lent him support on the day Konitz's child was born in Seattle, Washington, while he was stuck in New York City. The two were good friends, not the rivals some jazz critics made them out to be.\nIn the early 1950s, Konitz recorded and toured with the Stan Kenton Orchestra, but also continued to record as a leader. In 1961, he recorded \"Motion\" for Verve, with Elvin Jones on drums and Sonny Dallas on bass. This spontaneous session consisted entirely of standards. The loose trio format aptly featured Konitz's unorthodox phrasing and chromaticism.\nIn 1967, Konitz recorded \"The Lee Konitz Duets\" for Milestone, in configurations that were often unusual for the period (saxophone and trombone, two saxophones). The recordings drew on nearly the entire history of jazz from Louis Armstrong's \"Struttin' with Some Barbecue\", with valve trombonist Marshall Brown, to two free improvisation duos: one with a Duke Ellington associate, violinist Ray Nance, and one with guitarist Jim Hall.\nKonitz contributed to the film score for \"Desperate Characters\" (1971). In 1981, he performed at the Woodstock Jazz Festival, which was held in celebration of the tenth anniversary of the Creative Music Studio.\nKonitz worked with Warne Marsh, Dave Brubeck, Ornette Coleman, Charles Mingus, Attila Zoller, Gerry Mulligan, and Elvin Jones. He recorded trio dates with Brad Mehldau and Charlie Haden, released by Blue Note, as well as a live album recorded in 2009 at Birdland and released by ECM in 2011, with drummer Paul Motian. Konitz became more experimental as he grew older and released a number of free jazz and avant-garde jazz albums, performing with many younger musicians, including saxophonist/composer Ohad Talmor with whom he collaborated on 6 albums, featuring mostly new Konitz's music arranged by Talmor for a variety of ensembles. He soloed on Elvis Costello's song \"Someone Took The Words Away\" in 2003, and his album with saxophonist/vocalist Grace Kelly was given 4 1/2 stars by Michael Jackson in \"Down Beat\" magazine.\nKonitz had heart problems requiring surgery. He was scheduled to appear at Melbourne's Recital Centre in 2011 for the Melbourne International Jazz Festival, but canceled due to illness.\nIn August 2012, Konitz played to sell-out crowds at the Blue Note club in Greenwich Village, as part of Enfants Terribles, a collaboration with Bill Frisell, Gary Peacock, and Joey Baron. Days after his 87th birthday in 2014, he played three nights at Cafe Stritch in San Jose, California, with the Jeff Denson Trio, improvising on his favoured old standards. In 2018, his duo album \"Decade\" (Verve Records) celebrated both his 90th birthday and ten years of collaboration with pianist Dan Tepfer.\nPersonal life.\nKonitz was married three times. His first wife was Ruth Hamalainen. Ruth appears to have been a writer before she married, as she wrote an article with Barry Ulanov about Lennie Tristano that was published in the November 1946 issue of \"Metronome\". Lee and Ruth had five children: Josh, Paul, Rebecca, Stephanie, and Karen. Karen was the inspiration for his 1956 song \"Kary's Trance\"; Rebecca inspired the 1950 improvisation \"Rebecca\", and the 1951 original \"Hi, Beck\"; \"Stephanie\" inspired a so called ballad tune from 1958. Lee and Ruth later divorced. His second wife was Tavia Maria Mladinich (1931\u20131991), who died while they were married. A song named for her appeared on his 1977 album \"Pyramid\". His third wife was Gundula. They divorced also, though they remained close friends. He wrote a ballad for her entitled \"Gundula\" that he recorded for the first time on the 1999 album \"Pride\". Konitz died at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City on April 15, 2020, as a result of pneumonia brought on by COVID-19 during the pandemic in New York City."}
{"id": "756712", "revid": "53329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756712", "title": "Daniel Oduber", "text": ""}
{"id": "756723", "revid": "4796325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756723", "title": "Public defender", "text": "A public defender is a lawyer appointed to represent people who otherwise cannot reasonably afford to hire a lawyer to defend themselves in a trial. Several countries provide people with public defenders, including the UK, Belgium, Hungary and Singapore, and some states of Australia. Brazil is the only country in which an office of government-paid lawyers with the specific purpose of providing full legal assistance and representation to the needy free of charge is established in the constitution. The Sixth Amendment to the US Constitution, as interpreted by the Supreme Court, requires the US government to provide legal counsel to indigent defendants in criminal cases. Public defenders in the United States are lawyers employed by or under contract with county, state or federal governments.\nBy country.\nIn civil law countries, following the model from the French Napoleonic Code of criminal procedure, the courts typically appoint private attorneys at the expense of the state.\nAustralia.\nThe Australian states of Victoria and New South Wales both have dedicated Public Defenders chambers. These chambers retain barristers who are employed by the state government to represent legally-aided clients who are charged with serious indictable offences. In New South Wales, Public Defenders only appear in criminal matters, both at trial and appellate level, while in Victoria, Public Defenders also undertake some family law and civil work.\nThe New South Wales Senior Public Defender is Belinda Rigg, Senior Counsel, who was the first female public defender in NSW upon her appointment in 2019. In Victoria, the Chief Public Defender is Tim Marsh.\nIn Queensland, the Legal Aid Office (Queensland) was merged with the Public Defender's Office in 1991, in an expanded service providing clients to access family, civil and all criminal law services.\nBrazil.\nThe Constitution of Brazil uniquely provides for a public defenders' office (\"Defensoria P\u00fablica\") at both state and federal levels. Public defense is a right to poor people, who must declare, formally, that they cannot afford regular legal aid, to benefit from public defenders' services.\nPublic defenders, like prosecutors and judges, are admitted to their positions through civil service examination. The public defender's office assists the poor and lower middle-class in both civil and criminal matters, although the poorest states in the country are still struggling to set up a state public defenders office.\nPublic defense in Brazil dates back to 1897, when a decree mandated government-funded legal assistance in the state of Rio de Janeiro, then called Legal Assistance (\"Assist\u00eancia Jur\u00eddica\"). The Constitution of 1937 extended \"Assist\u00eancia Jur\u00eddica\" to the entire country, but without the same effectiveness that is derived from the current, 1988 Constitution.\nGermany.\nGermany provides legal representation, legal advice, and help in covering court costs in civil cases to those who cannot raise the necessary funds to hire an attorney, but only when there is a reasonable chance of success. In criminal cases where the defendant faces at least one year of imprisonment, the defendant has the right to legal counsel. Although there is a right to legal defense, there is no organized public defender system. Instead, any lawyer can be appointed to provide counsel to a specific defendant, and the defendant can select a specific lawyer. Questions of payment are deferred until the end of a trial, and the court will decide the cost of the case to the losing party. The defendant will not be charged for legal services if acquitted. If convicted, the defendant will be required to pay the lawyer's expenses unless the court finds that the defendant is indigent.\nHungary.\nIn Hungary, the police, the public prosecutor or the court (depending on what individual cases require) appoints a criminal defender at the state's cost to defend those who can not afford a chosen lawyer. The defence counsel's participation is required by the Criminal Procedure Act. Usually a private lawyer is appointed, one for each defendant, and conflict of interest between contradicting suspects is avoided, e.g. the same lawyer may not represent two accused whose evidence is mutually contradictory. If convicted, although in principle the defendant is liable for the fee, it is rarely pursued.\nIndia.\nIn India, free legal aid is provided by National Legal Services Authority. It is available at all the levels of court.\nSingapore.\nLegal assistance in Singapore is provided by the State and the Pro Bono Services Office of the Law Society.\nThe State provides legal assistance in criminal cases where the accused faces the death penalty. The government also provides legal representation and advice in civil cases such as for divorce, child custody, adoption, wrongful dismissal, letters of administration/probate, tenancy disputes, claims in contract and tort, through the Ministry of Law's Legal Aid Bureau (LAB). Assistance from the LAB is not free, and most clients are required to contribute towards the costs of the work done, but the amount a client is charged depends on a number of factors, among them the client's financial means.\nThe Pro Bono Services Office of the Law Society runs the Criminal Legal Aid Scheme, which provides criminal legal assistance to the poor and needy who are unable to afford a lawyer, and are facing charges in a Singapore court for non death-penalty offences under statutes covered by CLAS.\nUnited Kingdom.\nThere are a small number of Public Defender Service offices in England and Wales with lawyers employed directly by the Legal Aid Agency to provide advice in police stations and representation in magistrates and crown courts. The Public Defender Service has existed since 2001, a department of the Legal Aid Agency, an Executive Agency of the Ministry of Justice (UK). It has four offices across England and Wales. The majority of state funded criminal defence work, however, is provided by private duty solicitors contracted to the Legal Aid Agency and paid by the case under the legal aid scheme.\nIn Scotland a wider network of Public Defender Solicitor Office (PDSO) lawyers employed by the Scottish Legal Aid Board (SLAB) are available to represent those accused of crimes in addition to private lawyers (duty solicitors) paid under the legal aid scheme. The PDSO is a not-for-profit organisation funded through SLAB.\nUnited States.\nThe 1963 US Supreme Court case \"Gideon v. Wainwright\" held that the Sixth Amendment's right to counsel provision requires the government to provide legal counsel to indigent defendants in criminal cases. Different jurisdictions, however, use different approaches in providing legal counsel for criminal defendants who can't afford private attorneys. Exactly which defendants qualify as \"indigent\" also varies by jurisdiction: Often a state will stipulate a maximum income threshold above which a defendant is not considered to be indigent, and thus does not qualify for a public defender. This threshold may vary depending on the severity of the crime with which a defendant is charged. For example, a defendant's income may be too high to entitle him or her to a public defender in misdemeanor proceedings, but sufficiently low to qualify them as indigent when faced with a felony charge.\nThe term public defender in the United States is often used to describe a lawyer who is appointed by a court to represent a defendant who cannot afford to hire an attorney. More correctly, a public defender is a lawyer who works for a public defender's office, a government-funded agency that provides legal representation to indigent defendants. The court appoints the public defender's office to represent the defendant, and the office assigns a lawyer to the defendant's case. In the federal criminal court system and some states and counties, representation is through a publicly funded public defender office. The state of Oregon is the only state in which indigent defense is exclusively provided by non-profit firms which are contracted and funded by the state.\nOther courts may appoint private lawyers who have agreed to represent indigent defendants, with appointment being either on a contractual basis, through which the lawyer accepts an agreed number of cases from the court for the term of the contract, or a case-by-case basis. The majority of the states in the U.S. employ some combination of these delivery models."}
{"id": "756724", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756724", "title": "Adam G. Oehlenschlager", "text": ""}
{"id": "756725", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756725", "title": "Adam Gottlob Oehlenschlager", "text": ""}
{"id": "756727", "revid": "1318510455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756727", "title": "Am\u00e9d\u00e9e Ozenfant", "text": "Am\u00e9d\u00e9e Ozenfant (15 April 1886\u00a0\u2013 4 May 1966) was a French cubist painter and writer. Together with Charles-Edouard Jeanneret (later known as Le Corbusier) he founded the Purist movement.\nEducation.\nOzenfant was born into a bourgeois family in Saint-Quentin, Aisne and was educated at Dominican colleges in Saint-S\u00e9bastien. After completing his education he returned to Saint-Quentin and began painting in watercolour and pastels.\nIn 1904 he attended a drawing course run by Jules-Alexandre Patrouillard Degrave at the Ecole Municipale de Dessin Quentin Delatour in Saint-Quentin. In 1905 he began training in decorative arts in Paris, where his teachers were Maurice Pillard Verneuil and later Charles Cottet.\nBy 1907 he had enrolled in the Acad\u00e9mie de La Palette, where he studied under Jacques-Emile Blanche. He befriended Roger de La Fresnaye and Andr\u00e9 Dunoyer de Segonzac, who were his fellow students. In 1908 he began exhibiting at the Salon de la Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 Nationale des Beaux-Arts, and two years later began exhibiting at the Salon d'Automne.\nCollaboration with Le Corbusier and development of Purism.\nBetween 1909 and 1913 he travelled to Russia, Italy, Belgium, and the Netherlands and attended lectures at the Coll\u00e8ge de France in Paris. In 1915, in collaboration with Max Jacob and Guillaume Apollinaire, Ozenfant founded the magazine \"L\u2019Elan\", which he edited until 1916, and his theories of Purism began to develop.\nHe met the Swiss architect and painter Charles-Edouard Jeanneret (Le Corbusier) in 1917, and they jointly expounded the doctrines of Purism in their book \"Apr\u00e8s le cubisme\". Its publication coincided with the first Purist exhibition, held at the Galerie Thomas in Paris in 1917, in which Ozenfant exhibited. There was a further collaboration between them on the journal \"L'Esprit Nouveau\", which was published from 1920 to 1925.\nA second Purist exhibition was held at the Galerie Druet, Paris, in 1921 in which Ozenfant again exhibited. In 1924 he opened Acad\u00e9mie Moderne, a free studio in Paris with Fernand L\u00e9ger, where they both taught with Aleksandra Ekster and Marie Laurencin. Ozenfant and Le Corbusier wrote \"La Peinture moderne\" in 1925 and in 1928 Ozenfant published \"Art\", which was subsequently published in English as \"The Foundations of Modern Art\" in 1931. In this he fully expounds his theory of Purism, and it is remarkable for its idiosyncratic and aphoristic style.\nHis influence on the use of colour in England.\nHe later founded his own atelier, l\u2019Acad\u00e9mie Ozenfant, in the residence and studio that Le Corbusier had designed for him. He moved to London in 1936, where he set up the Ozenfant Academy of Fine Arts in May of that year, before moving to New York City some two years later. His students in London included Leonora Carrington, Sari Dienes, Anne Said, Stella Snead and . Students in New York included his assistant, Chaim Koppelman, the Canadian Madeleine Lalibert\u00e9 and Iranian Manoucher Yektai.\nIn the early Purist manifestoes, colour was deemed secondary to form, and this could be seen in the careful placing of colour to reinforce discrete architectural elements by Le Corbusier in his work of the mid-1920s. However, by the time he was in England, Ozenfant had refined his ideas about colour and outlined many of these in the six articles on the subject that he wrote for the \"Architectural Review\". Colour was now regarded as an essential element of architecture, rather than something considered by the architect while his work was being erected. Ozenfant believed that colour always modifies the form of the building and should receive more careful attention. We must endeavour to introduce a little order into this business, or at least sense into a great deal of it. But what is sense without order? We must try to find some method of arriving at some sort of order\u2014one that will at least enable us to escape from this vagueness in the design of colour.\nOzenfant's revised thoughts on the importance of colour were partly due to the influence of the artist Paul Signac and his theories on Divisionism. Signac maintained that the Neo-Impressionist technique of applying brushstrokes obtained the maximum brightness, colour, and harmony. Unlike the techniques used by the earlier Impressionists, patches of colours remained distinct, blending when viewed at a distance. In this instance, when no fusion of the colours takes place, the interaction is called \u201csimultaneous contrast\u201d, a condition in which colours merely influence one another by proximity. This technique prevents the muddiness or darkening that result when patches of colour actually run into each other. It was an extension of this technique that was recommended by Ozenfant for achieving \u201ccolour solidity\u201d in architecture, altering colours visually by contrast to create the illusion of solidity.\nThis notion of \u201csolidity\u201d increasingly became an issue as the nature of modern construction changed, especially when dealing with such things as the lightweight partition and the glass curtain wall.\nIn 1937 Ozenfant said: I believe that an immense service would be done to architects, decorators, house-painters etc., if a chart especially adapted to their particular requirements were established. This chart might contain about a hundred hues.\nOzenfant's articles on colour were read with interest, particularly by:\u2026the students at the Architectural Association (AA), for example, but even for David Medd, a student at the AA who later authored the color standards for British schools, Ozenfant had already gone to the United States by the time he inquired about the course at the Academy.\nThe effect of his words can be seen in a number of articles on colour published in England shortly after the Second World War. Indeed, we are told in 1956 that they had a direct influence on the decoration of some of the early post-war schools.\nFinal years.\nThe Ozenfant School of Fine Arts in New York was in operation from 1939 until 1955. He became a US citizen in 1944. Ozenfant taught and lectured widely in the United States until 1955, when he returned to France, where he was renaturalized in 1953. He remained there for the rest of his life and died in Cannes in 1966.\nCollections.\nThe Guggenheim Museum (New York City), the Hermitage Museum, the Honolulu Museum of Art, Kunstmuseum Basel (Switzerland), the Louvre, the Museum of Modern Art (New York City), Muzeum Sztuki (Lodz, Poland), the National Gallery of Australia (Canberra), the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Tate Gallery (London) and the Walker Art Center (Minnesota) are among the public collections holding works by Am\u00e9d\u00e9e Ozenfant."}
{"id": "756732", "revid": "7777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756732", "title": "Antoine Frederic Ozanam", "text": ""}
{"id": "756733", "revid": "256366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756733", "title": "Iwao Oyama", "text": ""}
{"id": "756736", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756736", "title": "Blinky (monster)", "text": ""}
{"id": "756739", "revid": "64853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756739", "title": "Basilica of the Sacr\u00e9 Coeur", "text": ""}
{"id": "756744", "revid": "75749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756744", "title": "Holly Vukadinovic", "text": ""}
{"id": "756747", "revid": "4082870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756747", "title": "Crazy Harry", "text": ""}
{"id": "756749", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756749", "title": "Crown in Parliament", "text": ""}
{"id": "756751", "revid": "34212885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756751", "title": "Life and death", "text": "Life and death (\u6b7b\u6d3b) is a fundamental concept in the game of Go, where the status of a specific group of stones is determined as either being \"alive\", where they may remain on the board indefinitely, or \"dead\", where the group will be \"captured\" and removed from the board. The basic idea can be summarized by:\nExplanation.\nThe concept of life and death is a consequence of two basic Go rules.\nBecause of these rules, some groups can never be captured (and thus are \"alive\"), while others cannot avoid capture (and thus are \"dead\" even if they have not yet been removed from the board).\nThe group at a is not alive, but may become alive, so is \"unsettled\". The group at b is \"dead\". The group at c and d is \"alive\".\nExamples.\nSee the diagram on the right, and suppose white tries to capture the black groups:\nThe black group surrounding c &amp; d can never be captured, so it is called \"alive\". The group has two separate liberties, where white cannot play. A group such as b that cannot become alive is called \"dead\". Groups that are neither \"alive\" nor \"dead\" are called \"unsettled\", and their fate will be resolved later.\ne and f are eyes, g is a false eye.\nEyes and false eyes.\nLiberties inside a group are called \"eyes\". In the previous example, a, b, c and d are eyes. An eye may be a single empty intersection, or more of them. In the diagram on the left, the intersections marked e form a single eye, and f forms another eye. The group has two\u2014separated\u2014eye spaces. Even though white can make a move in these eyes, black could eventually capture the white stones, and each eye would thereby be reduced to a single intersection.\nAn inner liberty where the opponent can still capture part of the group that encloses this liberty is called a 'false eye' or 'deficient eye'. A group with only one eye is not alive. In the example on the left, white can play at g, and capture a black stone. That eye is then destroyed, and black has only one eye left, so that group is now \"dead\". The black group at g is dead, because it can not form two true eyes.\nImportance.\nLife and death situations and issues occur when an area with a group of stones surrounds a small area (&lt;7 points) so that it may not be possible to form two separate independent \"eyes\". As the board fills up during the course of the game, certain groups will survive, and others may not. A group with a single eye can normally be captured, in the end, by filling first round the outside. The purpose of making two eyes is to prevent this. Novices sometimes interpret making two eyes in a narrow way, and form 'explicit' eyes one by one. This is often the wrong approach, and it is better to play generally to make a territory inside a group out of which two eyes can surely be made, if and when the opponent attacks it. Groups with seven or more points of territory can usually form two eyes when attacked, unless there are structural weaknesses.\nBecause the loss of a group can mean the loss of the game, and because the efficient use of each move is important, knowing the life and death status of one's own groups (as well as one's opponent's) is an important skill to cultivate, if one is to become a strong player. The correct, accurate plays with which to make a group secure, or to kill the opponent's group, are studied deeply by all strong players.\nStatus of a group.\nThe concept of 'status' is discussed in \"Life and Death\" by James Davies. Groups of stones are divided into those that are \"alive\", \"dead\" or \"unsettled\". Here \"alive\", for example, is an unconditional judgement made, that with best play from both players, the group can survive to the end of the game. That assumes the \"opponent\" starts: the alive status means that, whatever the attack made, there is an adequate defensive answer.\nThe \"unsettled\" status is therefore most worthy of attention. By playing first, the attacking player can kill such a group. By playing first, the defending player can save such a group. There is an enormous range of formations that are unsettled.\nA group can be considered \"alive\", \"dead\", or \"unsettled\" based on whether two eyes can be made regardless of how the opponent plays. Naturally, one space is insufficient. Two adjacent spaces are insufficient to make two eyes as well, since putting a stone in will create one eye only. The opponent can simply fill in one of the two spots, threatening to fill in the other, forcing the player to capture that one by playing in the second one. Then, the opponent simply plays there again, killing the group. Usually this will not be done during the game, but at the end, during calculation, the group will be labeled \"dead\" and removed as prisoners. The only way to actually remove a group from the board is to fill its \"eye space\" with all but one, forcing it to capture the filling-in group by putting a stone in the last space. If the created group is not alive, then continuing this process will eventually kill the entire group.\nStatus of groups of three.\nUnsettled groups with three empty points\nThere are two possible groups of three, an \"r\" shape and three in a line. Both of these are unsettled, as whoever plays obtains the desirable result. The person trying to create two eyes can play in the middle spot (the one connected to the other two) and the other two are now eyes. If the opponent plays, they will play in the same spot, followed by an adjacent spot (the other player's piece would be captured were they to play in one of the two open spots), leaving only one empty spot left. This forces the first player to capture, leaving the dead two shape. The critical points are circled in the \"Unsettled groups with three empty points\" diagram.\nStatus of groups of four.\nGroups with four empty points\nWith four blank spots, there are five unique shapes. Three are alive, one is unsettled, and one is dead.\nThe three alive ones are the straight line, L and Z shape. If the opponent plays in any spot, the first player can live by playing in the adjacent spot in the center two. In the diagram \"Groups with four empty points\" black's groups in the upper corners are alive. If the opponent plays any of the circled positions, playing the other circled position will secure the status of the black group.\nThe unsettled shape is the four-stone pyramid, shown in the left bottom corner. Whoever plays in the circled center spot gets the desired result, so the player whose move it is wins.\nA two-by-two square space is dead: if black plays in the top left corner of the two-by-two square, white can respond by playing in the bottom right corner (see the L-shaped case in the previous section). On the other hand, if white wants to capture the black group, they only have to play anywhere inside the square, and there will be no way for black to avoid capture.\nStatus of groups with more than four empty points.\nThere are no dead shapes with more than four empty points, though there are a couple of unsettled ones.\nUnsettled groups with five empty points\nA five stone \"plus sign\" (the X pentomino) and a \"bulky five\" (the P pentomino consisting of a square and one point off it, similar shape to a fist with the thumb extended\") are the two unsettled ones. Playing in the point that touches the most others (four in the \"plus sign\" - center point, three in the \"bulky five\" - the one point in the square touching the outside point) will give the desired result to whoever does so.\nUnsettled groups with six empty points\nThere are two unsettled six shapes, and the rest are all alive (see also miai).\nOne shape is the \"rabbity six\" \u2014 a square, plus adding the two points touching any one of the corners. (Similar to the plus sign five, but add any of the four taken corner points to get the unsettled six.) The opponent playing in the center point threatens to fill all but one spot with a bulky five shape, and there is no defense.\nThe other is the rectangular six \"in the corner\". The opponent playing first in the top middle of the rectangle can kill the group. The defender playing first can save it by playing either there, or at the lower middle (denoted \"a\").\nAny group surrounding more than six points is alive, but it may be necessary to respond correctly if the opponent attacks. Additionally, because of special properties of the corner, a group with more than six points might not be unconditionally alive, as it is possible for the opponent to make an eye or two within its territory.\nSeki.\nSeki\nThere is a possibility for stones to be alive without eyes. This situation happens when two groups of otherwise dead stones face each other without being able to achieve capture.\nThe figure on the right shows one of the most simple seki. The black and white stones in contact with the circled points do not have any eyes and may seem dead. However, if Black tries to capture white, they must fill one of the circled points, which will only lead to its own capture by white. The same applies to White, who cannot fill black liberties without being captured first.\nSince none of the players can kill the other, the situation is considered settled. The black and white stones are said to be \"alive in seki\".\nCaveats.\nGroups that are \"alive\" may yet die. One reason is that they may be sacrificed, in the course of a ko fight.\nAnother way in which the \"ko\" rule enters the discussion is through the complications \"ko\" adds to the classification by status. It is quite possible for a group to be alive in \"ko\": that is, the group is \"conditionally alive\", the condition being to be able to win a particular \"ko\" fight relating to the control of a key intersection.\nDead stones.\nVirtually all games will have at least a few dead stones, which remain on the board at the end of the game, when both players pass. Those dead stones are then removed, in an operation often called 'cleaning', which is a separate phase of the game. The stones removed are treated exactly like other captured stones. Under Chinese rules, which use area counting, stones removed during the cleaning phase are returned to their bowls.\nIt is a novice mistake to carry out the capture of dead stones before it is of tactical importance to do so. Such plays, during the game, waste a turn and may also cost points.\nSingle stones and small groups are often sacrificed. In cases where a group is more than of sacrificial value, that group typically must \"make life\" in order for one to have a chance at winning the overall game.\nGenerally each side will have at most 4-5 living groups on the board at the end of the game. There is a go proverb that says that \"Five groups may live, but the sixth will die\" which in a nutshell describes the need to emphasise connection between developing groups. The struggle for life can be solved by connection. Since each group needs two eyes, (and eyes are sometimes hard to come by) the alternative is to connect out to another group, thereby sharing both liberties and eyes.\n\"Aji\".\nEven if a group is lost, one can still use one's own dead stones for aji (potential). Ko threats are just one way in which apparently dead stones are put to good use. Expert players use a variety of 'squeezing' tactics, of which \"semedori\", an advanced endgame technique, and \"shibori\" are two that have recognised Japanese-language names."}
{"id": "756752", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756752", "title": "Judge Advocate General's Corps of the United States Navy", "text": ""}
{"id": "756754", "revid": "20720237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756754", "title": "Royal Caribbean International", "text": "Royal Caribbean International (RCI), formerly Royal Caribbean Cruise Line (RCCL), is a cruise line founded in 1968 in Norway and organized as a wholly owned subsidiary of Royal Caribbean Group since 1997. \nBased in Miami, Florida, it is the largest cruise line by revenue and second largest by passenger counts. Royal Caribbean International controlled 27.0% of the worldwide cruise market by passengers and 24.8% by revenue.\n the line operates 29 ships; three additional ships are on order and two ships are planned but do not have a launch date.&lt;/onlyinclude&gt;\nHistory.\nRoyal Caribbean Cruise Line was founded in 1968 by three Norwegian shipping companies: Anders Wilhelmsen &amp; Company, I.M. Skaugen &amp; Company, and Gotaas Larsen. The newly created line put its first ship, \"Song of Norway\", into service two years later. A year later, the line added \"Nordic Prince\" to the fleet and in 1972 it added \"Sun Viking\". In 1978, \"Song of Norway\" became Royal Caribbean's first passenger ship to be lengthened. This was accomplished via the insertion of an section to the vessel's severed center. Following the success of this work, \"Nordic Prince\" was also stretched in 1980. During the stretching of both ships, their sterns were modified to create more open space. In 1982, Royal Caribbean launched \"Song of America\".\nIn 1986, Royal Caribbean leased a coastal property in Labadie, Haiti, to be used as a private destination for its guests, renamed as Labadee. After a corporate restructuring in 1988, the line launched \"Sovereign of the Seas\", the largest passenger vessel afloat at the time. That same year, Royal Caribbean also merged with Admiral Cruises. Two years later in 1990, \"Nordic Empress\" and \"Viking Serenade\" entered service and Royal Caribbean purchased a second private destination, Little Stirrup Cay, an island in the Bahamas, which they branded as CocoCay.\nThe second and third s \"Monarch of the Seas\" and \"Majesty of the Seas\" were delivered in 1991 and 1992 respectively.\nRoyal Caribbean went public on the New York Stock Exchange in 1993. \nReorganization and renaming.\nIn 1997, it merged with the Greek cruise line Celebrity Cruises and changed its name from Royal Caribbean Cruise Line to Royal Caribbean International. At the same time, Royal Caribbean Group was formed as Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. to serve as a holding company that owned both Celebrity Cruises and Royal Caribbean International. \nIn 2000, Royal Caribbean operated a series of land-and-sea-based \"cruise tours\" in Alaska, featuring glass-domed train cars to scenic destinations within the state and Canada. Over the next two years, they also introduced cruise tours to destinations throughout Europe.\nAn even larger class, the \"\"Oasis\" class\", featuring \"Oasis of the Seas\" and \"Allure of the Seas\", was launched in 2009 and 2010, guaranteeing Royal Caribbean the ship size lead for years to come. In December 2012, Royal Caribbean announced that they had ordered a third \"Oasis\"-class cruise ship from STX France, which would be larger than the previous ships in the class. In March 2014, Royal Caribbean announced that they had ordered a fourth Oasis-Class ship from STX France.\nIn February 2013, Royal Caribbean announced the first two ships of their newest \"Quantum\" class, \"Quantum of the Seas\" and \"Anthem of the Seas\", which were being built at the Meyer Werft shipyard. In May of that year, Royal Caribbean announced that they had signed a contract for a third \"Quantum\"-class ship for delivery in mid-2016.\nIn September 2014, Royal Caribbean announced that the third \"Quantum\"-class ship would be named \"Ovation of the Seas\", and in February 2015 they announced that the third \"Oasis\"-class ship would be named \"Harmony of the Seas\".\nIn March 2015, Royal Caribbean announced that they had agreed to sell \"Splendour of the Seas\" to TUI Cruises in the second quarter of 2016.\nIn June 2016, Royal Caribbean announced that they had agreed to sell \"Legend of the Seas\" to TUI Cruises in the second quarter of 2017.\nThe company lobbies in various jurisdictions in which it operates. In the United States of America, lobbying expenditure records are held by the Senate Office of Public Records. In South Australia, the company is represented by lobbying company Richardson Coutts Pty Ltd.\nIn 2017, Royal Caribbean agreed to use Port Everglades as a preferred berth for its \"Oasis\" class ships. The new agreement extended the past contract with Port Everglades until 2026, contingent upon a $100 million remodeling of Cruise Terminal 25, and approved by the Broward County Board of County Commissioners.\nIn December 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, Royal Caribbean suspended sailings across its fleet. It also sold \"Empress of the Seas\" and \"Majesty of the Seas\", with the former going to Cordelia Cruises. , its first and only ship to resume sailing was \"Quantum of the Seas\", which began sailing from Singapore in December 2020 under health and safety regulations formulated by the Singapore government.\nOn 29 June 2021, Royal Caribbean International's \"Ovation of the Seas\" became the first cruise ship to return to the Port of Seattle since the COVID-19 pandemic began.\nPartnerships/capabilities.\nIn August 2022, the company announced that it would partner with SpaceX to use its Starlink technology across all its ships, in an effort to improve historically weak internet connections. This comes on the heels of the Federal Communications Commission authorizing SpaceX to provide its services to boats, planes, and trucks.\nPrivate resorts.\nRoyal Caribbean operates two privately owned resorts that are used as stops on some Caribbean and Bahamas itineraries. They are Labadee, a resort on the northern coast of Haiti, and CocoCay, a private island in the Berry Islands region of the Bahamas. Royal Caribbean will establish the Royal Beach Club on Paradise Island in Nassau, Bahamas in December 2025.\nThe company is planning to open additional private resorts in Cozumel and Costa Maya in Mexico and on Lelepa Island, Vanuatu in the South Pacific.\nFleet.\nCurrent fleet.\nSince \"Sovereign of the Seas\" entered service in 1987, all subsequent Royal Caribbean ships have names ending with the phrase \"of the Seas\".\n\"Vision\" class.\nThe \"Vision\" class consists of three pairs of sister ships. \"Legend\" and \"Splendour\", built at Chantiers de l'Atlantique, Saint-Nazaire, France have a gross tonnage of approximately 70,000. \"Grandeur\" and \"Enchantment\" were built at Kvaerner Masa-Yards, Helsinki, Finland and had an original tonnage of approximately . The final pair, \"Rhapsody\" and \"Vision\" were also built at Chantiers de l'Atlantique, and have a tonnage of . In 2005, a midsection was added to \"Enchantment of the Seas\", bringing its tonnage to over . All ships of this class feature over of glass. Royal Caribbean sold both \"Splendour of the Seas\" and \"Legend of the Seas\" to Marella Cruises. \"Splendour of the Seas\" last sailed for Royal Caribbean on 4 April 2016, and the final \"Legend of the Seas\" sailing for Royal Caribbean left port on 13 March 2017. In October 2019, Royal Caribbean announced a plan to transfer \"Grandeur of the Seas\" to Pullmantur Cruises after its last scheduled sailing on 21 March 2021. However, following Pullmantur's filing for bankruptcy, Royal Caribbean later announced in August 2020 that \"Grandeur\" would remain in Royal Caribbean's fleet.\n\"Voyager\" class.\nThe \"Voyager\"-class ships were the largest class of cruise ships in the world when constructed, were the first ships to have an ice rink at sea and the first to have Royal Caribbean's \"Royal Promenade\" concept, a main thoroughfare extending most of the length of the ship, flanked by bars, cafes, and shopping venues. They were built at Kvaerner Masa-Yards' (now Meyer Turku) facility in Turku, Finland. They have a gross tonnage of around 137,000 tonnes. Activity options onboard all five ships include a basketball court, at least three pools, a mini-golf course, a rock wall, an ice skating rink and, originally, an inline skating track. \"Navigator of the Seas\" replaced the inline skating track with a Flowrider surf simulator in 2014, and similar changes are planned for \"Voyager\" and \"Explorer\".\n\"Navigator of the Seas\" and \"Mariner of the Seas\" are second-generation \"Voyager\"-class vessels, and feature glass stateroom balconies that extend out from the superstructure of the ship and a larger Windjammer buffet area.\n\"Radiance\" class.\nAll \"Radiance\"-class ships have a gross tonnage of 90,090 and environmentally friendlier gas turbine engines. The \"Radiance\"-class ships have over of glass, glass exterior viewing elevators, over 700 balcony staterooms, two-level glass windowed dining rooms, alternative restaurants, a retractable glass roof over a pool, an outdoor pool, as well as the first self-leveling billiard tables at sea. The \"Radiance\" class ships were constructed at Meyer Werft, Papenburg, Germany. Unlike the preceding \"Voyager\" class, these ships are built to the Panamax form factor, allowing them to pass through the Panama Canal.\n\"Freedom\" class.\nThe \"Freedom\"-class ships are lengthened versions of the second-generation \"Voyager\"-class ship, and contain a Royal Promenade mall running much of the length of the ship, an ice skating rink, basketball court, several pools, a mini-golf course, and a rock wall. New features on the \"Freedom\" class include the FlowRider surfing simulator, the H2O Zone kids water play area, a boxing ring, and hot tubs cantilevered over the side of the ship. At 154,407 gross tons, the \"Freedom\"-class ships were the largest ships in the world from 2006, until the debut of the Oasis class in 2009. \n\"Oasis\" class.\nThe \"Oasis\"-class ships are some of the largest passenger ships ever built, having surpassed the \"Freedom\"-class ships, and are surpassed only by the Icon-class ships. They can accommodate up to 5,400 passengers at double occupancy and they have a maximum capacity of 6,296 passengers. Furthermore, the ships have a gross tonnage of at least 225,282 tons, and cost the line around US$1.4 billion each.\nThe first two ships in the class, \"Oasis of the Seas\" and \"Allure of the Seas\", were delivered in 2009 and 2010 by STX Europe Turku Shipyard, Finland. The third and fourth ships in the class, \"Harmony of the Seas\" and \"Symphony of the Seas\" were built at Chantiers de l'Atlantique in Saint-Nazaire, France. They were the first to come with the Ultimate Abyss dry slide. Royal Caribbean International, in conjunction with USA Today, sponsored a contest to name the first two vessels. In February 2019, Royal Caribbean announced the order of a 6th Oasis class vessel, later named \"Utopia of the Seas\", from Chantiers de l'Atlantique for delivery in 2024 with a double occupancy of 5,714 and gross tonnage of 231,000.\n\"Quantum\" class.\nThe \"Quantum\"-class of ships debuted as the second largest class of cruise ships in the world. The \"Quantum\"-class ships were the first ships built for Royal Caribbean by Meyer Werft since the \"Radiance\" class and share many features with those ships, including indoor pools with retractable roofs, vast expanses of glass, outdoor seating in the \"Windjammer\" buffet, and self-leveling pool tables. Other distinctive features of the \"Quantum\"-class include the \"North Star\" observation capsule mounted on the end of a crane arm, \"RipCord by iFLY\" a skydiving simulator, the three-deck-high Two70\u00b0 lounge and performance venue at the aft of the ship featuring panoramic windows that convert into projection screens, and the multi-purpose SeaPlex facility which hosts activities such as basketball, roller skating, bumper cars, and a trapeze school. The \"Quantum\" class was the first class designed specifically for Dynamic Dining, and feature several separate complementary dining facilities instead of a single main dining room. Each venue will maintain the same menu and staff throughout the cruise. Unlike the earlier \"Voyager\", \"Freedom\", and \"Oasis\" class, \"Quantum\"-class ships do not feature a Viking Crown Lounge or ice skating rink, and the Royal Esplanade mall down the center of the ship is not featured in the traditional form of Royal Promenades.\nFive ships, \"Quantum of the Seas\", \"Anthem of the Seas\", \"Ovation of the Seas\", \"Spectrum of the Seas\", and \"Odyssey of the Seas\" were built as of 2021.\n\"Icon\" class.\nOn 10 October 2016, Royal Caribbean and Meyer Turku announced an order to build two ships under the project name \"Icon\". On 2 July 2019, Royal Caribbean announced an order for a third ship in the \"Icon\" class.\n\"Icon\" class ships are the largest cruise ships ever constructed. The ships will be powered by liquefied natural gas (LNG), with a gross tonnage of about 250,800 GT. Ships will contain other alternative energy features, like the use of fuel cells to produce electricity and fresh water.\n\"Icon of the Seas\" was delivered on 27 November 2023, and the second ship, \"Star of the Seas\", was delivered in 2025. The third ship, \"Legend of the Seas\", is planned to be delivered in 2026, one year after \"Star of the Seas\".\nIn August 2024, an order for a fourth ship to be delivered in 2027 was announced and planned two additional ships.\nPorts of call.\nRoyal Caribbean operates internationally and has many ports of call.\nAwards.\nTravel awards include:\nSustainability.\nIn 2015, Royal Caribbean committed to sourcing 100% cage-free eggs for all of its lines by 2025.\nControversies.\nCruise line operators have been criticized for using their large economic impact to cut deals over ship-generated waste with home ports, ports of call, and agencies.\nNorovirus outbreaks.\nIn January 2014, an outbreak of norovirus aboard \"Explorer of the Seas\" sickened 689 of 4,237 passengers and crew (16.3%), causing the ship to return to port two days early. The outbreak reportedly marked the greatest number of cases of illness aboard a cruise ship in two decades, barely exceeding a 2006 outbreak aboard the Carnival Cruise Lines' \"Carnival Liberty\" that sickened 679 of 3,970 passengers and crew (17.1%). Royal Caribbean offered all passengers aboard that cruise a 50% refund of their cruise fare, an additional 50% (plus 10% for each day sick passengers were quarantined) of their cruise fare as a credit towards another cruise, and reimbursed extra travel expenses for guests returning home early.\nDocking in Haiti.\nIn the aftermath of the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Royal Caribbean continued docking cruise ships at the Labadee resort, located approximately 60 miles from the epicenter of the earthquake, during the ongoing humanitarian crisis. Royal Caribbean vice president John Weis defended the decision, citing relief supplies delivered through the ships and proceeds from the call going towards relief efforts. The decision to continue docking was criticized nonetheless and created concern among passengers.\nGeorge Allen Smith case.\nOn 5 July 2005, passengers on board \"Brilliance of the Seas\" reported what appeared to be blood on a part of the ship below the passenger balconies. After a search, George Allen Smith was discovered to be missing and thought to have fallen overboard. A criminal investigation into possible foul play was conducted, and a brief press release on the company's investor relations website announced the settlement of the case, later revealed to be more than $1 million.\nEnvironmental record.\nIn 1998 and 1999, the company was fined US$9 million because one of its ships, \"Sovereign of the Seas\", had repeatedly dumped oily waste into the ocean and tried to hide this using false records, including fake piping diagrams given to the U.S. Coast Guard. Because the company was and is incorporated in Liberia, Royal Caribbean argued that this case was not in the jurisdiction of U.S. courts. Despite their argument, they were unsuccessful. \nIn 2024, the Environmental Protection Agency fined Royal Caribbean International $475,000 for failing to properly report solid and hazardous waste management and handling between July 2019 and July 2024.\nWhakaari / White Island eruption.\nOn 9 December 2019, a volcanic eruption occurred killing 21 people from . It occurred on New Zealand's Whakaari / White Island while \"Ovation\" was docked in the nearby Port of Tauranga. Despite an increase in seismic activity in preceding weeks, 47 people (including 38 passengers and crew from the ship) were on the island when it erupted. , 44 of the 47 were injured, missing, or killed. A Royal Caribbean spokesperson said the line was \"devastated by today\u2019s events\", and the ship remained in port until 10 December to assist with recovery efforts. In April 2020, legal action was commenced in Australia on behalf of relatives and \"Ovation\" passengers against Royal Caribbean.\nDeath of Chloe Rae Margaret Wiegand.\nOn 7 July 2019, 18-month-old Chloe Rae Margaret Wiegand was dropped to her death from an open window by her grandfather Salvatore Anello on while docked in San Juan, Puerto Rico. He was later arrested on counts of homicide by authorities in Puerto Rico. The family attempted to file a civil suit against Royal Caribbean claiming that Anello did not know the window was open. Royal Caribbean later released several videos from surveillance cameras showing this incident. As of 25 February 2020, Anello took a plea deal with authorities. However, the civil lawsuit was still approved by a judge.\nCOVID-19 pandemic.\nDuring the COVID-19 pandemic, the \"Miami Herald\" reported that, after cruises were cancelled worldwide and they had disembarked all passengers, Royal Caribbean Cruises had refused to repatriate many of their crew members due to the associated costs, with many crew members turning to desperate measures, such as hunger strikes, as a result.\nAs part of the Cruise Line International Association (CLIA), Royal Caribbean paused its global sailing operations through 30 April 2021.\nOn 16 June 2021, Royal Caribbean International announced that it was delaying the inaugural sailing of their newest cruise liner, \"Odyssey of the Seas\" after eight crew members tested positive for SARS-CoV-2\u2013COVID-19. Six of the crew members were without showing signs of symptoms while the other two were experiencing mild symptoms of the disease. The delay was extended until 31 July 2021."}
{"id": "756755", "revid": "44374403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756755", "title": "Royal Caribbean", "text": "Royal Caribbean may refer to:"}
{"id": "756757", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756757", "title": "Scissor Sisters (album)", "text": "Scissor Sisters is the debut album by American glam rock band Scissor Sisters, first released on February 2, 2004. It was released by Polydor Records in the United Kingdom and Universal Motown Records in the United States. The album relates to LGBT life in New York City.\n\"Scissor Sisters\" reached number 1 on the UK and Irish albums charts and was the best-selling album of 2004 in the UK. Since its release, it been certified 9\u00d7 Platinum in the UK, selling over 2,700,000 copies in the country alone. In Ireland, it has been certified 5\u00d7 Platinum. The album was not as successful in their native US, peaking at number 102 on the \"Billboard\" 200. As of February 2007, it has sold 299,000 copies in United States. \"Scissor Sisters\" has sold 3,300,000 copies worldwide, and is listed as one of \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\" in the book of the same name, edited by Robert Dimery.\nThe album won Best International Album at the 2005 BRIT Awards. In July 2006 it was named by \"Attitude\" as the top \"gay album\" of all time.\nRelease history.\nThe album was first released on CD, and was given a limited vinyl release in Europe. Cassette versions were only released in Indonesia, Malaysia and Russia. In 2015, Dutch vinyl reissue label Music on Vinyl re-released the album on LP. Polydor reissued the album in early 2019 as a \"half-speed mastered\" audiophile release. This would be repressed on green vinyl as a \"20th anniversary edition\".\nOn July 18, 2025, the album was released as a three-CD \"21st anniversary edition\", featuring the UK bonus tracks from the original CD release in that country, B-sides, demo tracks and remixes. The 21st anniversary edition was also released as a double album, with the first disc once again pressed from the half-speed masters of the 2019 and 2024 releases and the second disc containing the UK bonus tracks, demos and B-sides.\nCritical reception.\nAt Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 81, which indicates \"universal acclaim\"."}
{"id": "756762", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756762", "title": "Judge Advocate General's Department of the United States Air Force", "text": ""}
{"id": "756765", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756765", "title": "Thelarche", "text": "Thelarche, also known as breast budding, is the onset of secondary breast development, often representing the beginning of pubertal development. It is the stage at which male and female breasts differentiate due to variance in hormone levels; however, some males have a condition in which they develop breasts, which is called gynecomastia. Thelarche typically occurs between the ages of 8 and 13 years with significant variation between individuals. However, the initial growth of breast tissue occurs during fetal development. It is usually the first sign of puberty in females (less commonly, it can be the second sign, after pubarche).\nUsually, females experience menarche about two years after thelarche has begun, with complete breast development from thelarche to adult breasts, taking between 2 and 4 years but can last up to age 18. Moreover, puberty is considered delayed if breast development does not start at age 13 or if a female has not had her first period (menarche) within three years of thelarche. Additionally, secondary breast development occurring before the age of 7 years could be a sign of premature thelarche or precocious puberty. Of note, for some girls, thelarche will occur, with subsequent regression of breast development, and then months or years later, normal breast growth will commence again accompanied by normal pubertal changes; this is termed transient thelarche.\nPubertal changes, including breast development, are assessed using the Tanner scale (Sexual Maturity Rating Scale) where stage 1 is before, stage 2 is the breast budding or thelarche stage, stages 3 and 4 are continual breast growth and areolar development, and stage 5 signifies completion of development. This system does not use breast size but instead examines the shape of breasts, nipples, and areolae to determine the progression of growth.\nVarious hormones interact and result in the changes seen during thelarche. The growth and accumulation of adipose tissue in the breasts are induced by estrogen, while the development of mammary glands and areolae are caused by progesterone; both estrogen and progesterone are produced by ovaries. Due to change in hormone levels, young breasts are likely to develop asymmetrically, and in many cases, adult breasts will remain unequal in size or shape.\nEpidemiology and trends.\nThe age of thelarche has been decreasing in the past few decades. Between 1973 and 2013, the age of thelarche decreased at a rate of 0.24 years per decade. Other contemporary trends that may be contributing to this change in the onset of thelarche include increasing BMI, changes in pubertal timing, and environmental exposures. Studies also indicate associations between the average age of thelarche and race. The average age of thelarche for African American females in the United States is between 8.9 and 9.5 years, the average for Caucasians is 10\u201310.4 years, and the average age of thelarche for Hispanic females is approximately 9.8 years. Additionally, in African American and Mexican American girls, breast development may occur earlier than in other ethnic cohorts and can be normal in the 7th year of age. Due to the decreasing age of thelarche over time, there is discussion of adjusting the cutoff for early thelarche to 7 years old for white females and six years old for black females.\nFurthermore, there have been associations between obesity, chemical contaminants, and the earlier average age of thelarche. Studies have shown that obesity is associated with an earlier average age of thelarche. Moreover, the prevalence of premature thelarche has been increasing over the past several years which many attribute to pesticides. Experimental data indicate the impact of chemical contaminants in gestation and puberty, with the chemical such as phthalates having a high association with premature thelarche frequency.\nPremature thelarche.\nPremature thelarche is a benign condition in which a young female has breast development before age eight without any accompanied pubertal changes. Individuals undergoing isolated premature thelarche do not experience menstruation, pubic hair growth (pubarche), or the bone growth characteristic of puberty. Initial breast development can be bilateral or unilateral and usually begins with a firm, disc-like area of tissue under the areola, which can be mistaken for a mass but is almost always a normal physiologic process. The breast is often tender, and palpation is sometimes painful, but breast discharge is absent. Usually, the breasts do not develop past stage 3 on the Tanner Scale, hence maintaining adolescent nipples. Moreover, in 90% of patients with isolated premature thelarche, breast enlargement will resolve six months to 6 years after diagnosis.\nThe most common age for females to develop isolated premature thelarche is between 0 and 2 years, with a prevalence rate between 2.2 and 4.7 percent of all female infants. The breasts of these females typically exhibit alternating progression and regression patterns of growth in 6-week intervals, often completely decreasing in size within 1.5 years. Due to the benign nature of the condition and the tendency to self-resolve, premature thelarche does not require treatment. However, premature thelarche should be evaluated to rule out additional causes, such as hypothyroidism or precocious puberty, especially if other symptoms are present. Such evaluations will typically involve serial examinations and radiographs.\nPrecocious puberty.\nPrecocious puberty is a condition where children undergo puberty before seven or eight years. Precocious puberty differs from premature thelarche in that the individual experiences additional aspects of puberty, including menarche, adrenarche, pubarche, vaginal discharge, and bone growth, while the sole presence of early thelarche identifies premature thelarche. Though premature thelarche and precocious puberty are distinct conditions, there is some overlap; an estimated 14 to 18 percent of females who exhibit premature thelarche will additionally develop precocious puberty. Precocious puberty can be identified using a pelvic ultrasound to assess the size of ovaries and uterus relative to the individual's age. Other methods of diagnosis consist of blood tests to determine hormone levels and simple physician assessments with follow-up appointments to track the progression of development.\nThelarche variant.\nThe thelarche variant, also named exaggerated thelarche, is an intermediate condition between premature thelarche and precocious puberty. This condition resembles premature thelarche without the cyclic waxing and waning of breast growth. Pubic hair growth (pubarche) and advanced bone growth are often present in the thelarche variant. Yet, this growth does not result in complete sexual maturity as occurs with precocious puberty."}
{"id": "756768", "revid": "2641642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756768", "title": "Massiv in Mensch", "text": "Massiv in Mensch is a German industrial musical duo made up of Daniel Logemann and Mirco Osterthun (Varel/Germany). They have signed to swedish Katyusha Label in 2017. When they play live, they use additional support from Jonathan Millat, Muck Kemmereit, Thomas Rauchenecker, Tomas Appelhoff and Marwin Vo\u00df. The band was invited to play thrice at Wave-Gotik-Treffen in Leipzig in 2000, 2005 and 2012.\nTheir album \"Menschdefekt\" rose to 16th place in January 2005 on the French Alternative Charts. The 2017 release \"Am Port der guten Hoffnung\" is their most successful album to date, topping at number 3 on German Alternative Charts.\nAlthough most of their lyrics are in German, Massiv in Mensch is quite popular and well known in the world industrial music scene."}
{"id": "756770", "revid": "40428319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756770", "title": "Star of the Sea College", "text": "Star of the Sea College is an independent, Catholic, day school for girls, located in Brighton, an inner south-eastern suburb of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.\nEstablished in 1883 by the Presentation Sisters, the college has a non-selective enrolment policy, and currently caters for approximately 1,000 female students from Years 7 to 12.\nStar of the Sea is affiliated with the Association of Heads of Independent Schools of Australia (AHISA), the Alliance of Girls' Schools Australasia (AGSA), and is a founding member of Girls Sport Victoria (GSV).\nHistory.\nStar of the Sea College was founded by the Presentation Sisters in March 1883. The sisters were asked to come to Australia from Ireland by Father James Corbett, and after establishing the first Presentation Convent and school in Victoria at Windsor (now Presentation College Windsor), they moved to Gardenvale (then known as Elsternwick). The Presentation Sisters from Wagga Wagga in New South Wales, established Star of the Sea College.\nThe foundresses, Mother John Byrne and Mother Paul Fay, named the school after Our Lady, 'Star of the Sea' when they moved into a house called \"Turret Lodge\", which had a clear view of a local bay.\nHouse system.\nThe school has four houses through which students engage in inter-house competition and other activities. The house system dates back to the 1930s, when principal Mother Angela Johnston formed Nagle (blue), named after founder of the Presentation Sisters Nano Nagle, and Stella (red), named for the Latin word for \"star\". Two additional houses were created in 1948: Ave (yellow) draws its name from the Latin word (in reference to \"Ave Maria\"), and Fay (green) is named for one of the school's two founders, Mother Paul Fay. Each house has its own crest which symbolises the spirit of the house. From years 10 to 12 students participate in a vertical homeroom system in which students from the same house are grouped together to encourage house spirit.\nSport.\nStar of the Sea is a member of Girls Sport Victoria (GSV).\nGSV premierships.\nStar of the Sea has won the following GSV premierships.\nANZAC.\nNamed for the Australian war veterans once housed there, ANZAC is Star of the Sea's Year 9 campus. Located in the Kamesburgh Gardens on North Road, Brighton, the forty-room mansion was built in 1874 and presented as a gift to the Repatriation Department in 1919. It served for a time as ANZAC Hostel before the aged care home relocated to an updated facility in 1996. The mansion was then leased by the college, and opened as a Year 9 campus in 1997.\nANZAC retains a close relationship with the hostel, participating in Remembrance Day ceremonies and a \"Companions Program\" which allows students to engage in weekly visits with the hostel's residents.\nThe campus has its own system of four houses, each of which are named after well-known battles or military campaigns fought by Australian soldiers: Kokoda, Gallipoli, Long Tan and Tobruk.\nStacella.\nStacella is the name of the college's a cappella choir. Founded in 1996, Stacella is composed of over 120 students from years 7 to 12, and has performed for primary schools, nursing homes, local festivals, service organisations and corporate clients. The choir holds an annual concert, in which all students perform the repertoire they have learnt during the year. As well as five tours to New Zealand and a trip Fiji, to date, the choir has also released five CDs.\nStudent-exchange programs.\nThe school has a student exchange program for German, Italian and Japanese students. Every year girls who are learning a language in the senior years get the opportunity to be part of the student exchange program. Students in years 10 and 11 also are able to go on a study tour to either Italy or Japan."}
{"id": "756772", "revid": "18114064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756772", "title": "Lennie Tristano", "text": "Leonard Joseph Tristano (March 19, 1919 \u2013 November 18, 1978) was an American jazz pianist, composer, arranger, and teacher of jazz improvisation.\nTristano studied for bachelor's and master's degrees in music in Chicago before moving to New York City in 1946. He played with leading bebop musicians and formed his own small bands, which soon displayed some of his early interests \u2013 contrapuntal interaction of instruments, harmonic flexibility, and rhythmic complexity. His quintet in 1949 recorded the first free group improvisations. Tristano's innovations continued in 1951, with the first overdubbed, improvised jazz recordings, and two years later, when he recorded an atonal improvised solo piano piece that was based on the development of motifs rather than on harmonies. He developed further via polyrhythms and chromaticism into the 1960s, but was infrequently recorded.\nTristano started teaching music, especially improvisation, in the early 1940s, and by the mid-1950s was concentrating on teaching in preference to performing. He taught in a structured and disciplined manner, which was unusual in jazz education when he began. His educational role over three decades meant that he exerted an influence on jazz through his students, including saxophonists Lee Konitz and Warne Marsh.\nMusicians and critics vary in their appraisal of Tristano as a musician. Some describe his playing as cold and suggest that his innovations had little impact; others state that he was a bridge between bebop and later, freer forms of jazz, and assert that he is less appreciated than he should be because commentators found him hard to categorize and because he chose not to commercialize.\nEarly life.\nTristano was born in Chicago on March 19, 1919. His mother, Rose Tristano (n\u00e9e Malano), was also born in Chicago. His father, Michael Joseph Tristano, was born in Italy and moved to the United States as a child. Lennie was the second of four brothers.\nLennie started on the family's player piano at the age of two or three. He had classical piano lessons when he was eight, but indicated later that they had hindered, rather than helped, his development. He was born with weak eyesight, possibly as a consequence of his mother being affected by the 1918\u201319 flu pandemic during pregnancy. A bout of measles when aged six may have exacerbated his condition, and by the age of nine or ten he was totally blind as a result of glaucoma. He initially went to standard state schools, but attended the Illinois School for the Blind in Jacksonville for a decade from around 1928. During his school days he played several instruments, including saxophones, trumpet, guitar, and drums. At the age of eleven he had his first gigs, playing clarinet in a brothel.\nTristano studied for a bachelor's degree in music in performance at the American Conservatory of Music in Chicago from 1938 until 1941, and stayed for another two years for further studies, although he left before completing his master's degree. One of his aunts assisted Tristano by taking notes for him at university.\nLater life and career.\n1940s.\nIn the early 1940s Tristano played tenor saxophone and piano for a variety of engagements, including in a rumba band. He began giving private music lessons at around the same time, including to saxophonist Lee Konitz. From 1943 Tristano also taught at the Axel Christensen School of Popular Music. He first received press coverage for his piano playing in early 1944, appearing in \"Metronome\"s summary of music in Chicago from that year, and then in \"Down Beat\" from 1945. He recorded with some musicians from Woody Herman's band in 1945; Tristano's playing on these tracks \"is characterized by his extended harmonies, fast single-line runs, and block chords.\" He also recorded solo piano pieces in the same year. Tristano also married in 1945; his wife was Judy Moore, a musician who sang to his piano accompaniment in Chicago in the mid-1940s.\nTristano's interest in jazz inspired a move to New York City in 1946. As a preliminary step to moving there, he stayed in Freeport, Long Island, where he played in a restaurant with Arnold Fishkind (bass) and Billy Bauer (guitar). This trio, with an assortment of bassists replacing Fishkind, was recorded in 1946\u201347. Reviewers at the time commented on the originality of the piano\u2013guitar counterpoint and the trio's approach to harmony. Gunther Schuller later described one of their recordings as \"too far ahead of its time\" in its harmonic freedom and rhythmic complexity.\nTristano met saxophonist Charlie Parker in 1947. They played together in bands that included bebop musicians Dizzy Gillespie and Max Roach later that year for radio broadcasts. The pianist reported that Parker enjoyed his playing, in part because it was different from what Parker was accustomed to and did not copy the saxophonist's style. In 1948 Tristano played less often in clubs, and added Konitz and a drummer to his regular band, making it into a quintet. This band recorded the first sides for the New Jazz label, which later became Prestige Records. Later that year Warne Marsh, another saxophonist student of Tristano's, was added to the group.\nTristano's band had two recording sessions in 1949 that proved to be significant. The sextet recorded original compositions, including his \"Wow\" and \"Crosscurrent\", that were based on familiar harmonies; reviewers commented on the linearity of the playing and its departure from bebop. Without a drummer, the other musicians also recorded the first free improvisations by a group \u2013 \"Intuition\" and \"Digression\". For these tracks, the sequence in which the musicians would join in the ensemble playing, and the approximate timing of those entrances, were planned, but nothing else \u2013 harmony, key, time signature, tempo, melody or rhythm \u2013 was prepared or set. Instead, the five musicians were held together by contrapuntal interaction. Both tracks were praised by critics, although their release was delayed \u2013 \"Intuition\" was released late in 1950, and \"Digression\" not until 1954. Parker and composer Aaron Copland were also impressed. Numerous other musicians of the time, however, thought Tristano's music too progressive and emotionally cold, and predicted that it would not be popular with the public.\nThe sextet struggled to find enough work, but did play at Birdland's opening night \"A Journey Through Jazz\", a subsequent five-week engagement at that club, and at various other venues in the north-east of the US late in 1949. They performed free pieces in these concerts, as well as Bach fugues, but found it difficult over time to continue to play with the freedom that they had initially felt.\n1950s.\nWith occasional personnel changes, the sextet continued performing into 1951. In the same year, the location for Tristano's lessons shifted from his home in Flushing, Queens to a Manhattan loft property, part of which he had converted into a recording studio. This also served as the location for frequent jam sessions with various invited musicians. The address became the title of one of his compositions \u2013 \"317 East 32nd Street\". At around the same time, Tristano started a record label named Jazz Records. It released \"Ju-ju\" and \"Pastime\" on a 45 record in 1952, before Tristano abandoned the project because of time demands and distribution problems. The two tracks were from a trio session with bassist Peter Ind and drummer Roy Haynes, and contained overdubbed second piano parts added later by Tristano. Ind described them as the first improvised, overdubbed recordings in jazz. Early reviewers largely failed to realize that overdubbing had been used. Tristano's recording studio remained in use, and was the scene of early sessions for Debut Records, co-founded by Roach and bassist Charles Mingus.\nIn 1952 Tristano's band performed occasionally, including as a quintet in Toronto. In the summer of that year, Konitz joined Stan Kenton's band, breaking up the core of Tristano's long-standing quintet/sextet, although the saxophonist did on occasion play with Tristano again.\nTristano's 1953 recording \"Descent into the Maelstrom\" was another innovation. It was a musical portrayal of Edgar Allan Poe's story of the same title, and was an improvised solo piano piece that used multitracking and had no preconceived harmonic structure, being based instead on the development of motifs. Its atonality anticipated the much later work of pianists such as Cecil Taylor and Borah Bergman.\nIn the following year Tristano's sextet played at the first Newport Jazz Festival. This may have been his only jazz festival appearance \u2013 he considered them to be too commercial. Marsh left the band in the summer of 1955.\nTristano recorded his first album for Atlantic Records in 1955; he was allowed control over the recording process and what to release. The eponymous album included solo and trio tracks that contained further experiments with multitracking (\"Requiem\" and \"Turkish Mambo\") and altered tape-speed (\"Line Up\" and \"East 32nd\"). The use of overdubbing and tape manipulation was controversial with some critics and musicians at the time. \"Requiem\", a tribute to Parker, who had died a short time earlier, has a deep blues feeling \u2013 a style not usually associated with Tristano. For \"Line Up\" and \"East 32nd\", Tristano's \"use of chromatic harmony ... secures him a position of a pioneer in expanding the harmonic vocabulary of jazz improvisation\", in biographer Eunmi Shim's words.\nBy the mid-1950s Tristano focused his energies more on music education. In 1956 he had to leave his Manhattan studio; he established a new one in Hollis, Queens. Some of his core students moved to California after Tristano's base was relocated. This, coupled with a separation from his wife in the same year due to his infidelity, meant that he was physically more isolated from the New York music scene. He gave fewer concerts than earlier, but in 1958 he had the first of what were sometimes lengthy engagements at New York's Half Note Club, after the owners persuaded him to perform, in part by replacing their club's Steinway piano with a new Bechstein of Tristano's choosing. They later reported that, in the late 1950s and early 1960s, the musicians who were the most popular at their club were John Coltrane, Zoot Sims, and Tristano: \"Coltrane brought in the masses, Zoot brought in the musicians and Lennie brought in the intellectuals.\" In 1959 Tristano's quintet again performed in Toronto, this time at the Famous Door.\n1960s and 1970s.\nTristano's second album for Atlantic was recorded in 1961 and released the following year. \"The New Tristano\", as was stressed on the album cover, consisted entirely of piano solos and no overdubbing or tape-speed manipulation was employed. The tracks contain left-hand bass lines that provide structure to each performance as well as counterpoint for the right-hand playing; block chords, unclear harmonies and contrasting rhythms also appear. Other solo piano recordings that Tristano made in 1961 were not released until the 1970s.\nTristano and his wife formally divorced in 1962. Their son, Steve, who was born in 1952, met his father only once after their initial 1956 separation. Tristano married again in the early 1960s. His second wife was Carol Miller, one of his students. They had a son, Bud, and two daughters, Tania and Carol. The couple divorced in 1964, and Tristano later lost a custody battle with his ex-wife over the children.\nIn 1964 the pianist reformed his quintet with Konitz and Marsh for a two-month engagement at the Half Note and performances at the Coq D'Or in Toronto. The quartet, missing Konitz, played the Cellar Club in Toronto two years later. Tristano played on occasion at the Half Note Club until the mid-1960s, and toured Europe in 1965. His European tour was mainly as a solo pianist, and the playing was in the style of his \"The New Tristano\" recordings. He performed with Ind and others in concerts in the UK in 1968; they were well received, and Tristano returned the following year. His last public performance in the US was in 1968.\nTristano declined offers to perform in the 1970s; he explained that he did not like to travel, and that the requirement for a career-minded musician to play concerts was not something that he wanted to follow. He continued teaching, and helped to organize concerts for some of his students. Another album, \"Descent into the Maelstrom\", was released in the 1970s; it consisted of recordings made between 1951 and 1966.\nTristano had a series of illnesses in the 1970s, including eye pain and emphysema (he smoked for most of his life). On November 18, 1978, he died of a heart attack at home in Jamaica, New York.\nPersonality and views on music.\nIn Ind's view, Tristano \"was always so gentle, so charming and so quietly spoken that his directness could be unnerving.\" This directness was noted by others, including bassist Chubby Jackson, who commented that Tristano had almost no tact and would not worry about being rude or making others feel incompetent. Some of his students described Tristano as domineering, but others indicated that this impression came from his demanding discipline in training and attitude to music.\nWriter Barry Ulanov commented in 1946 that Tristano \"was not content merely to feel something, ... he had to explore ideas, to experience them, to think them through carefully, thoroughly, logically until he could fully grasp them and then hold on to them.\" Tristano criticized the free jazz that began in the 1960s for its lack of musical logic as well as its expression of negative emotions. \"If you feel angry with somebody you hit him on the nose \u2013 not try to play angry music\", he commented; \"Express all that is positive. Beauty is a positive thing.\" He expanded on this by distinguishing emotion from feeling, and suggested that playing a particular emotion was egotistical and lacking in feeling.\nTristano also complained about the commercialization of jazz and what he perceived to be the requirement to abandon the artistic part of playing in order to earn a living from performing. Later commentators have suggested that these complaints ignored the freedom that he was given by Atlantic and blamed others for what in many cases were the outcomes of his own career decisions.\nInfluences and playing style.\nSaxophonists Parker and Lester Young were important influences on Tristano's development. Another major figure was pianist Art Tatum: Tristano practiced solo Tatum pieces early in his career, before gradually moving away from this influence in search of his own style. Bebopper Bud Powell also affected Tristano's playing and teaching, as he admired the younger pianist's articulation and expression.\nTristano's advanced grasp of harmony pushed his music beyond the complexities of the contemporary bebop movement: from his early recordings, he sought to develop the use of harmonies that were unusual for that period. His playing has been labeled \"cool jazz\", but this fails to capture the range of his playing. Eunmi Shim summarized the changes in Tristano's playing during his career:\n\"Grove Music\" commented on some aspects of Tristano's style that were different from most modern jazz: \"Rather than the irregular accents of bop, Tristano preferred an even rhythmic background against which to concentrate on line and focus his complex changes of time signature. Typically, his solos consisted of extraordinarily long, angular strings of almost even quavers provided with subtle rhythmic deviations and abrasive polytonal effects. He was particularly adept in his use of different levels of double time and was a master of the block-chord style\".\nFellow piano player Ethan Iverson asserted that, \"As a pianist, Tristano was in the top tier of technical accomplishment. He was born a prodigy and worked tirelessly to get better.\" Tristano \"had seemingly small but extremely flexible hands, which could expand to a phenomenal degree\", allowing him to reach large intervals.\nTeaching.\nTristano is regarded as one of the first to teach jazz, particularly improvisation, in a structured way. He taught musicians irrespective of their instrument and structured lessons to meet the needs of each individual. Lessons were typically 15\u201320 minutes in length. He did not teach the reading of music or the characteristics of different styles of jazz, instead challenging students in ways that would allow them to find and express their own musical feelings, or style.\nFoundational elements for a student's learning were having a concept of (principally diatonic) scales as music and a basis for harmony. One of the teaching tools often used by Tristano, including for scales, was the metronome. The student set the metronome at or near its slowest setting initially, and gradually increased its speed, allowing a sense of time to develop, along with confidence in placing each note.\nTristano encouraged his students to learn the melodies of jazz standards by singing them, then playing them, before working on playing them in all keys. He also often had his students learn to sing and play the improvised solos of some of the best-known names in jazz, including Parker and Young. Some students first sang solos from a recording slowed to half the normal speed; eventually they learned to sing and play them at normal speed. Tristano stressed that the student was not learning to imitate the artist, but should use the experience to gain insight into the musical feeling conveyed. Such activities stressed the value of ear training, and the idea of feeling being fundamental to musical expression. All of this preceded having the opportunity to improvise during lessons.\nLegacy.\nCritics disagree on Tristano's importance in jazz history. Max Harrison indicated that the pianist had limited influence outside his own group of affiliated musicians; Robert Palmer, who pointed out that only one of Tristano's albums was in print at the time of his death, suggested that he was pivotal in the change from 1940s modern jazz to the freer styles of subsequent decades; and Thomas Albright similarly believed that his improvising prepared and developed new ground in the history of the music.\nElements of Tristano's early playing \u2013 counterpoint, reharmonizing, and strict time \u2013 influenced Miles Davis' \"Birth of the Cool\", and the playing of saxophonist Gerry Mulligan and pianist Dave Brubeck. Tristano's early, more feelings-based performances also influenced the style of pianist Bill Evans, who also used overdubbing and multitracking in his own recordings after Tristano had experimented with the techniques. Avant-garde musician Anthony Braxton has often mentioned Tristano and some of his students as influences.\nPianist Mose Allison commented that Tristano and Powell \"were the founders of modern piano playing, since nearly everyone was influenced by one or the other of them.\" Albright cited Tristano as an influence on the pianists Paul Bley, Andrew Hill, Mal Waldron, and Taylor. After Tristano's death, jazz piano increasingly adopted aspects of his early playing, in Ted Gioia's view: \"younger players were coming to these same end points not because they had listened to Tristano ... but because these developments were logical extensions of the modern jazz idiom.\"\nIn Ind's opinion, Tristano's legacy \"is what he added technically to the jazz vocabulary and his vision of jazz as a serious musical craft\". \"Grove Music\"s summary is that \"Tristano's influence is felt most strongly in the work of his best pupils ... and in his example of high-mindedness and perfectionism, characteristics which presupposed for jazz the highest standards of music as art.\" Shim too identified his teaching as part of his legacy: parts of his approach to teaching jazz have become standard practice; and \"the sheer number of students he taught, which may easily exceed a thousand\", tied to some of them going on to employ what they learned in their own playing and pedagogy, illustrate his influence. Tristano's teaching also affected the art of painter Robert Ryman, who had music lessons with the pianist: Ryman's \"technique not only parallels music in general but shares the principles of kinesthetic and multisensorial attention to detail that characterized the teaching of Lennie Tristano.\"\nShim suggested that the common under-appreciation of Tristano is attributable in part to his style being unusual and too difficult for jazz commentators to categorize. Ind also believed that Tristano's reputation became less than was deserved \u2013 \"He stuck with his convictions and would not commercialize. His dedication, plus the lack of general appreciation by many jazz critics, led inevitably to his being sidelined.\"\nAwards.\nTristano was \"Metronome\"s musician of the year in 1947. He was elected to \"Down Beat\"s Hall of Fame in 1979. In 2013 Tristano was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame for \"Crosscurrents\", an album of recordings from 1949. He was added to the Ertegun Hall of Fame in 2015.\nDiscography.\nOnly albums are listed.\nAs sideman.\nMain sources:\nReferences.\nBibliography"}
{"id": "756773", "revid": "2016996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756773", "title": "Celebrity Cruises", "text": "&lt;onlyinclude&gt;Celebrity Cruises is a cruise line headquartered in Miami, Florida, and a wholly owned subsidiary of Royal Caribbean Group. Celebrity Cruises was founded in 1988 by the Greece-based Chandris Group, and merged with Royal Caribbean Cruise Line in 1997.&lt;/onlyinclude&gt;\nHistory.\nChandris Group (1988\u20131997).\nFounding and first ship SS \"Meridian\".\nCelebrity Cruises was founded in April 1988 as a subsidiary of the Greece-based Chandris Group to operate upmarket cruise ships to Bermuda. Chandris had been involved in cruise traffic since the 1960s, and during the late 1980s the company operated in the United States market under the brand name Chandris Cruises. Chandris Fantasy Cruises targeted the lower end of the cruise passenger market, with fleets consisting of second-hand ocean liners. \nCelebrity Cruises came into existence when, in April 1988, Home Lines, at the time one of the world's leading premium cruise lines, was sold to Holland America Line. Home Lines' ships had held two of the five contracts offered by the Government of Bermuda to cruise lines, giving the ships priority berthing arrangement and unlimited access to sail to the islands in exchange for the ships sailing to Bermuda between April and October each year. Although these contracts were highly valued, Holland America Line withdrew the former Home Lines ships from this service, leaving an opening for two new ships to gain access. Chandris wanted to acquire the contracts, but the Government of Bermuda was only willing to award them to upmarket cruise lines, which Chandris Fantasy Cruises was not.\nTo gain the Bermuda Government contracts, Chandris created Celebrity Cruises and immediately began negotiating with the Bermuda Government in April 1988. As a result of the negotiations, Celebrity Cruises was awarded the contract for two ships for five years beginning in 1990 To fulfill the contract, Chandris Fantasy Cruises' was rebuilt at Lloyd Werft, Germany in 1989, re-entering service as the SS \"Meridian\" for Celebrity Cruises in February 1990.\nCelebrity Cruises adopted the Chandris \"\u03a7\" (the Greek letter Chi, standing for \"Chandris\"), which was slightly stylized for their logo. The new line advertised itself as a \u201cLuxury Cruising by Design\", with the strategy of offering an upscale product with mass-market pricing. The ships would have refined interiors, destinations and dining, which included a partnership with famed chef Michel Roux, a unique thing for a cruise line at the time. Quoted by then chairman John Chandris, \"We will feature comfort and quality, not glitz and glitter.\"\nFirst new-builds: \"Horizon\" and \"Zenith\".\nCelebrity Cruise's second ship \"Horizon\", which had been ordered in 1988 as a replacement for in the Chandris Fantasy fleet, was transferred to Celebrity Cruises fleet, entering service in May 1990. It would be the line's first purpose-built new build. In late 1990 Celebrity Cruises placed an order for a sister ship of the \"Horizon\", delivered in 1992 as .\n\"Century\" class debut.\nCelebrity ordered a trio of newbuilds at Meyer Werft, known as the \"Century\" class, with the first ship, the \"Century\" debuting in 1996, followed by the \"Galaxy\" and \"Mercury\". These would be the last ships designed under the Chandris family management.\nRoyal Caribbean Group (1997\u2013present).\nIn 1997, the Chandris family sold its interests in Celebrity Cruises to Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, leading to the formation of Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (later Royal Caribbean Group) as a holding company to keep both brands separate and the renaming of Royal Caribbean Cruise Line to Royal Caribbean International. Following the delivery of the \"Mercury\", the lines first ship, the \"Meridian,\" was sold to Singapore-based Sun Cruises.\n\"Millennium\" class debut.\nBetween 2000 and 2002, Celebrity took delivery of a quartet of new ships, the first gas turbine-powered cruise ships, and aptly named \"Millennium\"-class ships , , and . The new class of ship introduced a new hull livery, with dark blue hull, gold stripes, and red accents on the mast and funnel. The livery was short Iived, and after a few years, would revert to Celebrity's original white hull, dark blue stripe color scheme.\nThe Celebrity Expeditions sub-brand was launched in 2001 with the acquisition of , a small boutique ship offering specialized cruises around the Gal\u00e1pagos Islands. In 2005, the \"Horizon\" was transferred to the fleet of Royal Caribbean's United Kingdom-based subsidiary Island Cruises. In the same year, the first ship of what was to be named \"Solstice\" class was ordered from Meyer Werft. By 2007, three more ships of this class were on order.\nIn 2006, plans were made to transfer and from the fleet of Pullmantur Cruises to Celebrity Cruises under the names of \"Celebrity Quest\" and \"Celebrity Journey\". The ships would have joined the Celebrity Expeditions sub-brand, but in the end the decision was made to form an entirely new line, Azamara Cruises, to operate these ships in 2007. Also, in 2007, the \"Zenith\" was transferred to Pullmantur Cruises 'in exchange' for the Azamara ships. Transfer of the \"Zenith\" also meant the end of Celebrity Cruises' association with Bermuda for the time being, as no ship was brought in to replace her on the cruises to Bermuda. In April 2010, The \"Celebrity Summit\" began to reposition yearly to New Jersey to offer cruises to Bermuda.\nIn 2007\u20132008, all Celebrity Cruises' ships were renamed with a \"Celebrity\" prefix added to the pre-existing ship names.\n\"Solstice\" class debut.\n, the first ship in the new \"Solstice\" class, was delivered to Celebrity on 24 October 2008. In May 2009 \"Galaxy\" was transferred to the fleet of TUI Cruises, a joint venture between Celebrity Cruises' owner Royal Caribbean Group and TUI AG and renamed as \"Mein Schiff\". Two more \"Solstice\"-class ships entered service \u2013 the in 2009 and the in 2010.\nIn 2011, was sold by Celebrity fleet to become \"Mein Schiff 2\" for TUI Cruises. The fourth \"Solstice\"-class ship the entered service in 2011. The was delivered in 2012.\nIn 2014, Celebrity Cruises launched a blog called \"Catalyst,\" which covered travel, fashion, and culture.\nIn April 2015, Celebrity's oldest ship, the , departed the fleet.\n\"Edge\" class debut.\nOn 4 December 2014, Celebrity Cruises signed a letter of intent for a new class of vessels. The two 2,900-guest, 117,000 GT ships would be developed under the project name EDGE and will build upon the brand's \"Millennium\"-class and \"Solstice\"-class vessels. The company took delivery of the first \"Edge\"-class vessel, the , on 31 October 2018, followed by the in 2020, and enlarged stretched \"Edge\"-class in 2022. The \"Edge\" class introduced a new livery for the brand, with blue painted hulls that would be incorporated on the rest of the fleet as part of the Celebrity revolution initiative.\nIn December 2014, Lisa Lutoff-Perlo, a 32-year veteran of Celebrity Cruises, was promoted to president and chief executive officer.\nOn 14 March 2016, Celebrity Cruises announced the planned acquisition of the Gal\u00e1pagos Islands tour operator Ocean Adventures and its two ships, the 48-guest MV \"Eclipse\" (now \"Celebrity Xperience\") and the 16-guest catamaran MC \"Athala II\" (now \"Celebrity Xploration\"). The move expanded Celebrity's guest capacity in the Gal\u00e1pagos by 65 percent.\nCelebrity Cruises announced on 11 October 2017, that it would perform legal same-sex marriages on its ships while in international waters following the legalization of same-sex marriage in Malta, where most of the Celebrity fleet is registered. The company already hosted same-sex marriages while docked in jurisdictions where they are legal, but the change in Maltese law allowed the company's captains to perform legally-recognized marriages while in international waters.\nIn July 2018, the company announced its intention to invest more than $500 million to refurbish all \"Millennium\"-class and \"Solstice\"-class ships in its fleet between 2019 and 2023.\nIn 2020, due to the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic, sailings were suspended on various dates in various regions. On 12 January 2021, a report indicated that sailings were suspended worldwide \"through April 30, including the May 1 transatlantic cruise on Celebrity Apex\". Between May and October 2021, \"Europe and transatlantic cruises on \"Celebrity Edge\" and \"Celebrity Constellation\" will also be suspended May through Oct. 2021\".\nOn 19 March 2021, Celebrity Cruises announced that it would be resuming its North American cruises in June, sailing out of St. Maarten and that to board all adults, including crew, will be required to show proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Children were allowed to show evidence of a negative COVID-19 test within 72 hours. On 26 June, \"Celebrity Edge\" became the first cruise ship to leave the United States with ticketed passengers since March 2020. It set sail from Port Everglades in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.\nProject Nirvana.\nIn November 2024, it was announced by Celebrity president Laura Hodges Bethge that the line was working on a new class design titled \"Project Nirvana\", with a potential debut in 2030.\nIn January 2025, Celebrity announced that they ordered a 6th Edge Class ship. \nCelebrity River Cruises.\nOn January 28, 2025, Celebrity announced Celebrity River Cruises with an order of 10 transformative ships that with an \"elevated design and sophistication of the Edge Series\". The ships are being built at the TeamCo Shipyard, the Netherlands, with the first ships debuting in 2027 sailing on the Rhine and Danube.\nIn September 2025, it was announced the names of the first two new river ships to be \"Celebrity Compass\" and \"Celebrity Seeker\" as part of an official press release showing itineraries, deck plans, and the first images of the new ships.\nFleet.\nFuture fleet.\nA new class named \"Nirvana\" is planned, and Celebrity has announced they are building ships for the river cruising market, expected to start service in 2027:\nRiver Fleet.\nIn January 2026, ten more ships were announced to be built until 2031; a fleet of 10 vessels in 2031 is planned."}
{"id": "756775", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756775", "title": "Heinz-Harald Frentzen", "text": "Heinz-Harald Frentzen (; born 18 May 1967) is a German former racing driver, who competed in Formula One from to . Frentzen was runner-up in the Formula One World Drivers' Championship in with Williams, and won three Grands Prix across 10 seasons.\nBorn in M\u00f6nchengladbach, Frentzen began his racing career aged 12 in karting, winning several titles including the junior direct-drive German Kart Championship. He progressed to junior formulae in 1985, winning several races in Formula Ford before finishing runner-up in the 1989 German Formula Three Championship amidst a title battle with Karl Wendlinger and Michael Schumacher. After three seasons of racing in Japan, Frentzen signed with Sauber in , making his Formula One debut at the . He remained at Sauber\u2014now under Red Bull sponsorship\u2014the following season, achieving his maiden podium at the . After scoring several point finishes in his campaign, Frentzen joined Williams to replace reigning World Champion Damon Hill alongside Jacques Villeneuve. Frentzen achieved his maiden victory at the , taking several podiums as he finished runner-up to Villeneuve after Schumacher's collision with him at the last race of the season saw his disqualification from the standings. Williams suffered their first winless season since with the FW20, prompting his departure to Jordan in a swap with Ralf Schumacher. Frentzen achieved further wins at the French and Italian Grands Prix in , finishing third in the World Drivers' Championship to Mika H\u00e4kkinen and Eddie Irvine. After struggling for form in , Frentzen was dropped by Jordan after the 2001 British Grand Prix, swapping with Jean Alesi to join Prost. After Prost went bankrupt at the end of the season, Frentzen spent two seasons with Arrows and Sauber before retiring at the conclusion of , having achieved three wins, two pole positions, six fastest laps and 18 podiums in Formula One.\nOutside of Formula One, Frentzen competed full-time in the Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters from 2004 to 2006, as well as competing in the all-star Speedcar Series in both of its seasons. Frentzen entered two editions of the 24 Hours of Le Mans in and , finishing fourth in class at the latter with Aston Martin.\nEarly career.\nFrentzen was born on 18 May 1967 in the West German city of M\u00f6nchengladbach (North Rhine-Westphalia) to Heinrich-Harald Frentzen (1933\u20132012), a German entrepreneur and his Spanish wife Angela Lladosa (1937\u20132020). He has two sisters (Sylvia, a theologian, and Sonja, a teacher) and two half-sisters (Samantha, a former student, and Nicole-Nadine). His family was connected to motorsport; his father raced between 1950 and 1957. Frentzen's parents divorced when he was eight years old and his father subsequently married Mexican-born Arazelli while Angela returned to Spain.\nFrentzen began karting at the age of twelve, after his father bought him his first kart, and made an extraordinarily successful start. In 1981, aged fourteen, Frentzen won the German Junior Kart Championship. Two years later, Frentzen entered the CIK Asia Pacific Championships in Australia driving a Dino although he did not finish. In 1984, he finished runner-up in the 100cc class. He was funded and supported by his father\u2014a funeral director\u2014who also acted as both team boss and head mechanic.\nIn 1985, Frentzen moved into car racing by entering the German Formula Ford 2000 series. After two seasons in Formula Ford, he was runner-up in the 1987 series, despite not participating in all races. Frentzen progressed to German Formula Opel Lotus in 1988 in the Junior Team of former Formula One driver Jochen Mass, who had been impressed by Frentzen's performances in Formula Ford. Frentzen was champion of the German series in his first year and his teammate Marco Werner finished third in the championship. He also participated in the Formula Opel Lotus Euroseries, where he finished sixth in the championship, scoring 56 points.\nThe next step was the German Formula 3 Championship in 1989, where Frentzen competed against many future stars including Michael Schumacher and Karl Wendlinger. At the time, there was a big push by Bernie Ecclestone to have a German driver in the Formula One World Championship, so the ONS (the German National Motorsports committee) decided to support both Frentzen and Schumacher. The ONS put up the reward of a Formula One test to the driver who first would take a victory in a Formula 3 race. This ultimately ended up being Schumacher, in a controversial race at Zeltweg, Austria in which Frentzen claimed Schumacher had forced him off the track; however, Schumacher did not get the Formula One test drive anyway. Karl Wendlinger won the German Formula 3 Championship and Frentzen became joint runner-up with Schumacher (the two finishing on identical points totals).\nIn 1990, Frentzen entered the International Formula 3000 series driving for Eddie Jordan Racing and was partnered by Eddie Irvine. Frentzen finished the season 16th in the championship, scoring three points. In the same year, he also participated in the World Sports Prototype Championship driving a Mercedes-Benz C11 scoring one podium and six points. In 1991, Frentzen continued to drive in International Formula 3000, moving to Vortex Motorsport and scored five points in that year's series.\nFormula One.\nSauber (1994\u20131996).\nIn 1994, Frentzen was given a Formula One drive by Peter Sauber in a Mercedes powered car, as teammate to fellow Mercedes junior Wendlinger, who had made it to F1 in and was in his second year with the team. Frentzen began the year strongly, qualifying fifth for his d\u00e9but in Brazil (albeit spinning off in the race) and scoring his first points with fifth in the Pacific Grand Prix. He was then thrust into the role of \"de facto\" team leader after Wendlinger crashed during qualifying for the fourth round of the season in Monaco, leaving him with severe head injuries that ruled him out for the remainder of the year. Frentzen had the measure of substitute team-mates Andrea de Cesaris and JJ Lehto, scoring points on three further occasions and finishing thirteenth in the World Drivers' Championship. A particularly noteworthy performance came in the European Grand Prix at Jerez, where he qualified fifth and ran third in the race. The team's decision to run a one-stop refuelling strategy caused his pace to suffer and he slipped back to sixth by the finish.\nSauber's performance was not sufficient to keep the partnership with Mercedes alive: the marque moved to McLaren, leaving the team to acquire a supply of Ford V8 engines for the season instead. The engines had powered Michael Schumacher to the World Drivers' Championship in 1994, but were now completely outpowered by the V10 and V12 engines used by the leading teams. The Sauber C14 chassis was also uncompetitive at the start of the year, but Frentzen produced consistent performances to finish in the points on multiple occasions. The performance of the car improved with development throughout the year, culminating in Frentzen taking the team's first podium finish at the Italian Grand Prix and qualifying a season's-best fifth in Portugal. He also easily had the measure of his team-mates: first, the returning Wendlinger, who was then replaced by Williams test driver Jean-Christophe Boullion mid-season. Frentzen's performance against the latter was particularly significant in the team ultimately signing him to drive for the season. He finished ninth in the World Drivers' Championship with 15 points.\nIn , Frentzen was joined by Johnny Herbert and Ford upgraded to a V10 engine configuration, promising more power. The unit was still lacking in performance compared to the top teams, and was also less reliable than the trusty V8 had been the previous season. Frentzen was therefore limited to just three points-scoring finishes\u2014in Monaco, Spain and Japan\u2014whilst Herbert was also closer to him in performance than his team-mates in previous years had been. He finished the season twelfth in the World Drivers' Championship with seven points; by this stage, his move to Williams for 1997 had been announced.\nWilliams (1997\u20131998).\nFor the 1997 season, Frentzen replaced 1996 champion Damon Hill at the Williams-Renault team. At the first race of the season, Frentzen took the lead at the first corner and remained there until his first pit stop. He was running second late in the race when a brake disc exploded, throwing him off the circuit and into retirement. He took his first win at the fourth race of the year at San Marino. Frentzen followed this with his first pole position of his career at the following round in Monaco, but did not finish the race. After inconsistency marked the first half of the season, Frentzen finished the second half of season with six points scoring performances including five consecutive podiums. Despite eight front-row starts and seven podium finishes, Frentzen was generally out-performed by team-mate Jacques Villeneuve, out-qualifying the French-Canadian only four times during the season. Frentzen was unable to secure another victory and finished third in the driver's championship standings with 42 points to teammate Villeneuve's 81. He would be elevated to second after the disqualification of Michael Schumacher.\nRenault discontinued factory support for the Williams engines in 1998. Williams also lost chief designer Adrian Newey to McLaren during the off-season. Consequently the team suffered a loss of performance compared to eventual title winners McLaren and Williams' 1997 title-rivals Ferrari. Frentzen would start the season with a podium at Albert Park. This would be the highlight of Frentzen's year, as he was unable to repeat the podium, and was once again out-performed by team mate Jacques Villenuve. Frentzen finished the season placed 7th in the championship with 17 points. Frentzen would depart Williams during the off-season after two difficult years, with the time considered disappointing due to difficulty adjusting to the different atmosphere at Williams compared to Sauber and disagreements with head engineer Patrick Head.\nJordan (1999\u2013mid 2001) and Prost (mid 2001).\nIn 1999 Frentzen moved to Jordan in a straight swap with Ralf Schumacher and enjoyed success in the Mugen-Honda powered car, with two race wins and scoring points in the majority of races. During the 1999 European Grand Prix he was leading after a pole position and with both H\u00e4kkinen and Irvine outside of the points (H\u00e4kkinen because he pitted for wets during a very very short shower period and Irvine because of a very slow pit stop where the rear right tyre was not ready in time) and with both outside the points and equal on 60 points and with him on 50, if positions would not change, he would be equal on points with both H\u00e4kkinen and Irvine with two races to go. But on the 32nd lap, his Jordan stopped. H\u00e4kkinen went on to recover and finish fifth. Before the 1999 Malaysian Grand Prix he was 12 points behind championship leader H\u00e4kkinen. But his title dreams were dashed on that race, with Frentzen finishing sixth, with H\u00e4kkinen and Irvine finishing third and first respectively. With one race to go (and ten points still available for drivers) Frentzen had 51 points, 19 less than championship leader Irvine. Frentzen finished third in the Driver Championship (22 points behind the world champion Mika H\u00e4kkinen and was regarded by many as the driver of the year. After the strong season Frentzen was considered as a favourite to challenge for the championship in 2000.\n2000 and 2001 were critical years as Honda also began to supply the BAR team, resulting in a race between the teams as to who would secure the regular engine supply. In 2000, Frentzen managed two podiums, which were the best results for the team, but Jordan still finished down the grid and, crucially, behind BAR. After some low points finishes, injury, disagreements about the technical direction of the team (Frentzen reportedly offered to pay for the changes to fix the car, out of his own pocket) and then a string of retirements halfway through the 2001 season, Jordan sacked Frentzen and replaced him with Jean Alesi. Eight years later Eddie Jordan revealed that the termination of Frentzen's contract was a move to appease Honda and sign the Japanese driver Takuma Sato to race for the team. Frentzen subsequently took Alesi's place at the struggling Prost team, and managed to qualify fourth at Spa, before the outfit collapsed financially at the end of the season.\nArrows (2002) and return to Sauber (2002\u201303).\nOn 30 December 2001, Frentzen was signed by Arrows for the 2002 season. He scored points on two occasions and outpaced both the Jaguars who ran the same engine. The team went bankrupt in August and Frentzen was released from his contract. Back with Sauber for 2003, after a one-off drive replacing Felipe Massa at the 2002 United States Grand Prix, Frentzen was evenly matched with his highly rated teammate Nick Heidfeld and scored a final podium finish in the penultimate race of the year in the United States.\nDTM.\nFor 2004, Frentzen moved to the German Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters saloon car series to drive for Opel, encouraged by the success achieved in the series by fellow F1 refugee Jean Alesi. His Opel Vectra was not a competitive car, and he was regularly outpaced by not only the Audi and Mercedes drivers but also by his Opel teammates, eventually finishing the season 14th in the championship standings. He remained in the DTM with Opel for the 2005 season and finished the year in 8th as best-placed Opel driver, with his best result a third place from pole position at Brno in the Czech Republic.\nAfter Opel withdrew after the 2005 season, Frentzen joined Audi for 2006. He would finish third at the first race of the season at Hockenheim and again at the eighth race of the season at Barcelona. Frentzen finished the season seventh in the final standings and quit the team stating he had \"no support from the team\".\nLater career.\nIn April 2008, Frentzen drove the Bahrain race in the Speedcar Series of the 2007/2008 season and later on joined the Speedcar Series for the complete 2008/2009 season. He competed in the 24 Hours of Le Mans for Aston Martin Racing driving one of the two factory Aston Martin DBR9s with Karl Wendlinger and Andrea Piccini in the GT1 class. His team finished 4th in class and 16th overall.\nAlso in 2008, Frentzen built the HHF Hybrid Concept Car which he entered in the 24 Hours N\u00fcrburgring with his own team. The chassis was a bought Gumpert Apollo road car with a 3.3 litre V8 bi-turbo with 520\u00a0hp and an electric motor with approximately 136\u00a0hp. Frentzen finished the race but was not classified due to two conventional gearbox failures.\nIn 2011, Frentzen won a special one-off \"ROC Legends\" race against Hans-Joachim Stuck, Marc Duez and Stig Blomqvist as part of the 2011 Race of Champions. In 2012, Frentzen competed in the ADAC GT Masters season with a Callaway Competition Corvette Z06, and returned to the series in 2014 with a HTP Motorsport Mercedes-Benz SLS AMG GT3.\nDriving style and appraisal.\nFrentzen has been described as a loyal driver. The monthly magazine \"F1 Racing\" observed that the key issue for Frentzen was finding the appropriate settings for his car which was done by himself. In his autobiography \"An Independent Man\", Eddie Jordan said that Frentzen did a \"great job\" at driving the Jordan 199. After leaving Sauber at the end of 2003, BBC Sport described Frentzen as a driver who \"never quite made the most of a brilliant natural talent\". Sauber team principal Peter Sauber said in 2005 that Frentzen was the most important driver for his team but admitted that the driver needed to work in a specific atmosphere and referred to his time at Williams where he was in conflict with technical director Patrick Head.\nOther notable appearances.\nFrentzen appeared on an episode in the 29th series of British motoring show \"Top Gear\" in 2020, in which he appeared as a rival for the presenters in a Germany versus Britain challenge.\nPersonal life.\nIn the early 1990s, Frentzen was in a relationship with Corinna Betsch. After their relationship ended, Corinna later married fellow Formula 1 driver Michael Schumacher. In 1999, Frentzen married Tanja Nigge. Together they have three children.\nRacing record.\nComplete International Formula 3000 results.\n() (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races\nin \"italics\" indicate fastest lap)\nComplete Formula One results.\n\u2020 Did not finish, but was classified as he had completed more than 90% of the race distance.\nComplete Deutsche Tourenwagen Meisterschaft/Masters results.\n A non-championship one-off race was held in 2004 at the streets of Shanghai, China."}
{"id": "756777", "revid": "372290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756777", "title": "List of Go terms", "text": "Players of the game of Go often use jargon to describe situations on the board and surrounding the game. Such technical terms are likely to be encountered in books and articles about Go in English as well as other languages. Many of these terms have been borrowed from Japanese, mostly when no short equivalent English term could be found. This article gives an overview of the most important terms.\nUse of Japanese terms.\nAlthough Go originated in China before the Confucian era, where it is called Weiqi, the current English and Western technical vocabulary borrows a high proportion of terms from the Japanese language because it was through Japan that the West was introduced to Go.\nMany of these terms are from a jargon used for technical Go writing and are to some extent specially developed for Go journalism. Some authors of English-language Go materials avoid use of Japanese technical terms, and the way they are applied can differ in subtle ways from the original meanings.\nA few Korean-language terms have come into use (e.g., \"haengma\" as a way of describing the development of stones).\nTerms.\n\"Aji\".\n refers to the latent potential of stones to open various avenues of play. The \"aji\" in various positions on the board impacts the course of the game regardless of whether a player makes moves to realize the latent potential. A situation is said to contain bad \"aji\" when the presence of the opponent's stones or weaknesses in one's own position create a threat of compromising the position at an opportune moment in the game. It can be very difficult for players to assess the best moment to play a move to realize the potential of \"aji\" in a position or to remove the threat of bad \"aji\" in one's own position.\nIn the diagram, the triangled stone is dead, and the three squared white stones appears to be trapped. However, the \"aji\" of the triangled stone enables White to escape by jumping to White 1. If black resists, the two black stones can be captured with the help of the triangled stone.\n\"Atari\".\n is a term for a situation where a stone or group of stones has only one liberty and may be captured on the next move if unable to attain additional liberties. A group in such a situation is said to be \"in atari\" or \"under atari\". Beginners often verbally call out \"atari\" in a manner similar to calling out \"check\" in chess, but it is considered inappropriate for more advanced players. In the illustration, the triangled white stones are said to be in \"atari\", because black can capture them in a single move. If black plays a move at \"a\", the white pieces are immediately captured and removed from the board.\nIn Japanese, () is the nominalized form of (, , or ), meaning 'to hit the target' or 'to receive something fortuitously'. The word is used in Japanese when a prediction comes true or when someone wins a lottery. In Chinese \"ta chi'ih\" (); Korean: \"dansu\" () or sometimes adali (\uc544\ub2e4\ub9ac).\nBoard positions.\nAs the distance of a stone from the edge of the board has important tactical and strategic implications, it is normal to term the corner points of the board (1, 1) points, and count lines in from the edge.\n\"Dame\".\n (English pronunciation: ; ; ) are unfilled neutral points that will not benefit either side. Typically, the term refers to vacant points that lie between two opposing forces, and will eventually be filled without altering the score. Basically, dame points are of no interest, though they must be filled before counting the score under area (Chinese style) scoring. The Japanese rules define a dame as a vacant point that is not surrounded by live stones of only one color, so the term can also refer to an empty point that is tactically useful as a liberty for a unit.\nDivine move.\nA divine move is an exceptional, inspired and original move; one that is non-obvious and which balances strategy and tactics to create an unexpected turning point in a game. A divine move is singular; it is of such rarity that a professional Go player might reasonably hope to play a single such move in a lifetime. The term comes from the Japanese phrase , meaning 'move of God' or 'Godly move'.\nThe famous ear-reddening move played by Hon'inb\u014d Sh\u016bsaku in 1846 is sometimes considered to be an example of a divine move. A widely cited modern example is Lee Sedol\u2019s move 78 in the fourth game of his 2016 challenge match against AlphaGo, a computer Go program developed by DeepMind, which was first described by Gu Li (9p) and later widely accepted by top professionals as a \u201cdivine move\u201d for its originality and its reversal of a position widely regarded at the time as lost, ultimately leading to Lee\u2019s victory in that game, his only win in the five-game match, and the last time a human defeated a top-level AI in standard Go match play.\nDouble \"hane\".\nThe double \"hane\" (, ) is a sequence of two moves in succession that step around an opponent's adjacent group. It can be an aggressive and appropriate way to play, although it exposes the stones to cutting.\nEyes.\n are internal, fully surrounded liberties of a group of stones. An eye cannot be filled by the opponent until all of the group's other liberties have been filled.\nThe presence or absence of eyes in a group determine life or death of that group: A group with one or no eyes will die unless its owner can develop them; conversely, a group with two or more eyes will live since an opponent can never reduce the group down to a single liberty.\nEyes are counted as occupied territory of the group that fully surrounds the eye. When a group shares (is adjacent to) one or more eyes with the opposing player's groups, those eyes do not count as territory for either player. Sometimes those eyes are reduced to dame as other areas of the board change to give one or both groups additional eyes, allowing one or both players to fill the shared eyes. But sometimes those shared eyes do not resolve .\n\"Gote\".\nPlaying means responding directly to the opponent's \"sente\" move.\n\"Hane\".\nA \"hane\" (, ; ) is a move that goes around one or more of the opponent's stones.\n\"Hayago\".\n means 'quick Go', 'fast Go' or 'quick play'. Most \"hayago\" games last either five minutes, with ten seconds allotted for each move, or ten minutes, with thirty seconds per move.\n\"Jigo\".\nA is a tied score, i.e., the players have an equal number of points at the conclusion of the game. \"Jigo\" can be avoided by adding a fractional komi to white's score.\n\"Joseki\".\n are established sequences of play which (locally speaking) are considered to give an optimal result (balanced exchanges and/or equal territories/influences) to both players. There are thousands of such lines that have been researched and documented.\nOften \"joseki\" are played out early in the game and involve dividing the corners. There are also \"mid-game joseki\", dealing with for example an invasion into a common enclosure or framework.\nThough \"joseki\" have some parallel with chess openings, they differ significantly. Chess openings structure the whole board while \"joseki\" deal only with a local position. Therefore, the choice of which \"joseki\" (of many possible) to play in any given situation should be based on an assessment of the global position. This includes considerations of the direction of play, current balance of territory and influence, and one's own game strategy.\nIt is also quite possible to deviate from \"joseki\" and obtain a good result if the surrounding position allows. In other words, \"joseki\" are sensitive to the context in which they are played.\n\"Kakari\".\nA is an approach move to a corner position, such as at the 5-3 point (low \"kakari\") or the 5-4 point (high \"kakari\") when an opponent has previously played the 3-4 point, as in the diagram. More generally a \"kakari\" is low if it is played on the third line and high if it played on the fourth line. \"Kakaris\" higher than the fourth line are uncommon in professional play.\n\"Keima\".\nA , also called a 'knight's move', is a stone placement which makes an 'L' shape.\nThe term comes from the Japanese name of the knight piece in shogi (Japanese chess), which is the equivalent of the knight in Western chess. Both pieces move in a similar shape to the \"keima\" shape in Go.\n\"Kiai\".\n translates as 'fighting spirit', meaning play that is aggressive or where the player takes the initiative. \"Kiai\" typically means keeping sente and not letting the opponent have his or her way. A sensei might say, \"You play too passively \u2014 put some \"kiai\" in your moves!\u201d \"Kiai\" moves can surprise an opponent and turn the game around. Examples of \"kiai\" include defending with a move that also counter-attacks or answering a \"kikashi\" (forcing move) in an unexpected way. \"Kiai\" is also a term used in Japanese martial arts, usually as a name for a loud yell accompanying an attack.\n\"Kikashi\".\nLiterally meaning 'an enlivenment', is a forcing move, usually one made outside the primary flow of play. Unlike \"sente\", though, a move is \"kikashi\" when it yields a high efficiency in play by forcing the opponent to abandon a course of action. A \"kikashi\" stone will usually be sacrificed while conferring an advantage; for example, the \"kikashi\" stone could act as a ladder breaker or destroy the opponent's potential eyeshape, while the answering move has no value at all.Moves can be \"kikashi\", or not, depending on whether they are answered with appropriate sophistication or not. If the answering move strengthens the position, then the play is not \"kikashi\" but \"aji keshi\" (ruining one's own potential).\n\"Ko\".\n (English pronunciation: ; ; ) refers to a situation where the \"ko\" rule applies. The \"ko\" rule states that a move cannot be played such that it causes the board to look exactly the same as it did at the end of the player's last move. Consequently, if a player captures a single stone, the opponent cannot respond immediately by capturing the stone the player used to make the original capture. This would make the board look as it did immediately priora situation that could repeat indefinitely.\nA player may take advantage of the \"ko\" rule by playing a move with the knowledge that the opponent will not be permitted to recapture immediately. The opponent, however, may play a \"sente\" move elsewhere forcing the player to respond, in which case the opponent may then recapture the \"ko\". Such a \"sente\" play is referred to as a \"ko threat\". This kind of repeated back and forth sequence of \"ko\" capture, \"ko\" threat, response to \"ko\" threat, \"ko\" re-capture, etc., is known as a \"ko fight\".\n\"Ko\" () is originally a Buddhist term meaning aeon, or an extremely long length of time.\n\"Komi\".\n is a bonus in score given to white as compensation for going second. There is no agreement on what Komi should be, but is commonly in the range of 4.5 to 7.5 points. Komi almost always includes a half point for breaking ties.\n\"Korigatachi\".\n is often translated as 'over-concentrated', but more literally is 'congealed shape'. If a player uses his stones in an inefficient way, the result will be \"korigatachi\". Knowing something about this problem should tell one how to avoid it. Placing stones too close together is a fundamental mistake, rather than safe play.\n\"Kosumi\".\nThe is a move placed at a point diagonally adjacent to another of one's own stones where the adjoining intersections are unoccupied.\nLadder.\nA is a sequence of moves in which an attacker pursues a group in \"atari\" in a zig-zag pattern across the board.\nLiberty.\nA is a vacant point that is immediately adjacent to a stone in a cardinal (orthogonal) direction, or connected through a continuous string of same-colored stones to such a point. A stone, chain, or group must have at least one liberty to survive. A group that has two or more separate internal liberties (eyes) is impossible to capture.\n\"Miai\".\n are a pair of vacant points on the board that are equivalent in value. For example, if Black plays at \"A\", White can play at \"B\" and suffer no disadvantage from the exchange.\nThis occurs often. \"Miai\" can be seen in the \"fuseki\" stage on a large scale, or in a simple life and death problem, such as a straight four-space eye. This shape is alive because of its two central points \"a\" and \"b\": if Black plays \"a\", White can answer with \"b\" and vice versa.\nThe term originates from the Japanese custom of arranging marriage through a series of meetings (\"miai\") to view prospective spouses ( \"miru\", \"view\", \"au\", \"meet\").\nMonkey jump.\nA monkey jump is a move, usually used in the end-game, which can reduce one's opponent's territory significantly. It can be played when the attacker has a strong stone on the second line and the defender has no nearby stones on the first or second line guarding his hoped-for territory. The attacker places a stone on the first line three spaces into the defender's territory from the strong stone. Due to the special properties of the edge of the board, the defender cannot usually cut off the stone.\n\"Moyo\".\n is a framework for potential territory which usually consists of unconnected stones with some distance between them. The early game usually consists of competing for \"moyo\" by attempting to expand one's own and/or invade or reduce one's opponent's. The term literally means 'pattern', but in Go it is often translated as 'framework', 'potential' or 'wall'.\n\"Myoushu\".\n is an inspired movea move which turns a game around or otherwise exceeds expectations. An example of \"myoushu\" is the ear-reddening move played by Honinbo Shusaku in 1846.\n\"Nakade\".\nA refers to a move inside an opponent's group that prevents the opponent from making two eyes. It can also refer to a group of stones or a shape where such a move could be played. The illustration shows a \"nakade\" often referred to as \"bulky five\" or \"chair\" shape.\n\"Nerai\".\n is a Japanese Go term (noun, from the verb nerau) meaning threat, aim, target, follow-up.\nPeep.\nA peep is a move normally played in \"sente\" in which a stone is placed directly next to an empty point that would connect two groups. The move typically provokes an immediate response, since it threatens to separate the two groups.\nPincer.\nA pincer is a move that approaches an opponent's stone from both sides. The purpose of the attack is to diminish the opponent's ability to form a base or occupy a territory on the side.\nProbe.\nA probe is a sophisticated move designed to yield information about the opponent's intentions based on how they respond. The Japanese term for a probing move is . The phrase \"y\u014dsu o miru\" literally means 'to see how things stand'. A probe draws on other concepts such as \"kikashi\", \"aji\", and \"korigatachi.\"\n\"Sabaki\".\n is the development of a flexible, efficient position that is difficult for the opponent to attack, often by means of contact plays and sacrifice.\n\"Seki\".\n is a Japanese term for an impasse that cannot be resolved into simple life and death. It is sometimes translated as \"mutual life\" (). For example, a capturing race may end in a position in which neither player can capture the other. There are numerous types of \"seki\" positions that can arise, characterized as cases in which neither player adds a play to groups that do not have two eyes. The area remains untouched; at the end all groups involved are deemed alive, but no points are scored for territory.\nIn the \"seki\" figure, if either White or Black play on the points marked \"a\", the other will effect capture immediately and will be able (if playing properly) to form two eyes.\n\"Sente\".\nPlaying means to have the initiative.\nShape.\nShape is the configuration of stones in their flexibility and efficiency at staying connected, forming eyes, and maintaining liberties. Stones are said to have good shape if they are efficient and flexible and bad shape if they are inefficient. Examples of good shape are the \"ponnuki\" (four stones in a diamond created by capturing an enemy stone) and the bamboo joint (a 2\u00d73 pattern of two stones, two spaces and two more stones). Examples of bad shape are the empty triangle (three adjacent stones forming an 'L') and the \"dango\" (meaning 'dumpling', a large clump of stones not containing any eyes).\nShoulder hit.\nA shoulder hit is a stone placed diagonally next to an opponent's stone, often towards the center of the board. It is generally used to reduce the territorial potential of an opponent's group without being easily captured.\n\"Tenuki\".\nTo play is to ignore an opponent's \"sente\" move in order to play elsewhere.\n\"Tesuji\".\nA is a clever play, the best play in a local position, a skillful move. \"Tesuji\" is derived from , which means 'line of play'.\nThe opposite of \"tesuji\" is \"zokusuji\", which can be translated as 'crude line of play', and also referred to as \"anti-suji\" or a \"vulgar\" move depending on the situation.\n\"Tesuji\" often require a player to read a situation several moves ahead. They may be applied in life and death situations (as found in \"tsumego\"), in order to obtain initiative (\"sente\"), to capture stones, to gain extra points in the end game (\"yose\"), or otherwise to salvage a seemingly unfavorable situation.\nThickness.\n describes a position of power and impregnability. A group is thick when it has developed beyond the level of stability in its local area without accruing significant weaknesses, and consequently projects power at a distance, especially over vacant or unsettled areas of the board. Such positions have a profound influence on the flow of the game. In the diagram, though white has about 10 points of territory in the corner while black has little or none, black can expect the power projected outward by his thick position to more than make up for this. Note that black's advantage would not be as significant if white had a settled position in the direction black's influence is facing.\n\"Yose\".\n is a term for endgame plays. A \"yose\" translates as a 'tightening play', i.e., a play on the board that consolidates territory or destroys the opponent's territory. It also refers to the endgame phase.\nA fundamental skill in the endgame is the ability to evaluate plays in different areas of the board and identify which plays have priority. This usually requires determining the number of points at stake (known as \"counting\"). Knowledge of counting begins with some simple examples and heuristics. Combinatorial game theory has been implicated in gaining actual proofs rather than practical ways to win positions.\n\"\u014cyose\", or large \"yose\" refers to a position that is large enough to be hard to count with precision (say, 20 points or more). It may also be used to refer to the early endgame phase.\nUse in popular culture.\nThe name of the video game company \"Atari\" came from the term used while playing the game because co-founder Nolan Bushnell was a fan of the game. \"Sente Technologies\" and \"Tengen\" also derive their names from Go terms."}
{"id": "756781", "revid": "1308125708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756781", "title": "Francis de Groot", "text": "Francis Edward de Groot (24 October 1888 \u2013 1 April 1969) was an Irish-Australian soldier and furniture maker. He is best known for dramatically interrupting the official opening of the Sydney Harbour Bridge in 1932, attempting to slash the ribbon with a military sword while on horseback.\nDe Groot was born in Dublin, Ireland into a family of artisans. He left school at a young age and joined the Merchant Navy, later serving an apprenticeship with his uncle, an antiques dealer. He first lived in Australia from 1910 to 1914, working for Angus &amp; Robertson as an antiques buyer. De Groot returned to Ireland in 1914 and enlisted in the British Army, having previously served with reserve units. He saw active service on the Western Front and finished the war with the rank of captain. In 1920, de Groot returned to Australia and established his own furniture-making business in Sydney, producing replicas of 18th-century furniture styles in Australian timber. He serviced a number of commercial clients and high-profile individuals from a workshop in Rushcutters Bay.\nDe Groot was a fascist and joined the paramilitary New Guard in 1931, taking part in clashes with left-wing groups. His disruption of the opening of the Sydney Harbour Bridge was designed to embarrass state premier Jack Lang, a particular target of the New Guard. He was arrested on the spot and charged with minor offences, receiving a small fine; he later successfully sued the police for wrongful arrest. Photographs and films of De Groot's actions were widely published and made him a significant public figure, although he played little further role in the New Guard. He continued his work as a furniture manufacturer and during World War II served with the Australian military, eventually retiring back to Ireland.\nEarly life.\nDe Groot was born on 24 October 1888 in central Dublin. He was the son of Mary (n\u00e9e Butler) and Cornelius De Groot. His father's family was of Dutch Huguenot ancestry. He came from \"a dynasty of carvers and gilders\"; his father was a wood carver and sculptor, while his paternal grandfather exhibited wood carvings at the Great Exhibition of 1851 and Irish Industrial Exhibition of 1852.\nDe Groot attended Blackrock College and Belvedere College in Dublin. He joined the Merchant Navy at the age of thirteen, but later took up an apprenticeship with his uncle Michael Butler, an antiques dealer, for whom he worked for five years in Dublin and London. He remained involved with the military, joining the South of Ireland Imperial Yeomanry in 1907 and serving for six months with the 5th Dragoon Guards in 1909.\nEarly years in Australia.\nIn 1910, de Groot immigrated to Australia and settled in Sydney. He soon came into contact with bookseller and antiquarian George Robertson, one of the founders of the Angus &amp; Robertson bookstore chain, and his associate Frederick Wymark. Robertson had tasked Wymark with opening a gallery attached to Angus &amp; Robertson's Castlereagh Street store selling art and antiquities. De Groot's connections in Dublin and London proved useful to Wymark and he serviced a number of significant clients including Eadith Walker, Samuel Henry Ervin, Thomas Anderson Stuart, William Dixson, the Vickery family and the Hordern family. In his memoirs he recalled that Robertson had given him a budget of \u00a310,000 () to acquire items for resale by Angus &amp; Robertson.\nWorld War I.\nDe Groot returned to Ireland on the outbreak of World War I and enlisted in the 15th Hussars, a cavalry regiment. He saw active service on the Western Front, later transferring to a tank battalion with the rank of acting captain. He was present for the Battle of the Somme in 1916 and the Battle of Passchendaele in 1917. He was discharged in 1919, with his discharge delayed by his recovery from Spanish flu.\nFurniture business.\nIn October 1919, de Groot married Mary Elizabeth Byrne in Donnybrook, Dublin. They had first met in 1910 prior to de Groot's initial departure to Australia. After their marriage they took advantage of a War Office scheme which provided free passage to the Dominions for returned soldiers. They arrived in Sydney in May 1920 and de Groot established his own business as an antique dealer and manufacturer of reproduction furniture. De Groot's Auction Rooms opened in Phillip Street in 1921 and later shifted to Bent Street. Specialising in Queensland maple, his business proved immensely successful and by 1927 he was reportedly employing 200 artisans at his workshop in Rushcutters Bay. However, it has been suggested that the figures he claimed \"seem implausible given the size of the Australian furniture market in the 1920s\".\nDe Groot had a particular interest in 18th-century furniture styles, translating Chippendale, Adam and William and Mary styles into Australian timbers \"with concessions to 20th century housekeeping\". One of his most significant commissions in the 1920s was a refit of the David Jones department store chain. In 1934 he received a major commission from The Australia Hotel in Sydney, and the following year he designed a furniture suite for Governor-General Isaac Isaacs to be installed at Government House, Canberra. De Groot exhibited with The Society of Arts and Crafts of NSW in 1937 and advertised widely in interior design publications such as \"The Australian Home Builder\" and \"The Home\". Outside of furniture he also collected china, silver, Waterford Crystal, and Persian rugs.\nPolitics.\nDuring the 1930s, de Groot joined a fascist paramilitary organisation called the New Guard, which was politically opposed to the more left-wing government and the socialist views of NSW Premier Jack Lang. Many of the members of the New Guard were men who had served in World War I.\nSeeking to attack leftist meetings, de Groot organised groups of 1,000-strong groups of New Guard members throughout December 1931, commenting later that \"the best reply to force, was greater force...seeing that we could command the greater force, [I] saw no reason why it should not be employed\".\nSydney Harbour Bridge opening ceremony incident.\nHe became famous when, on 19 March 1932, he upstaged Lang at the opening of the Sydney Harbour Bridge, before a crowd of 300,000 people. He was not a member of the official party but, on horseback and dressed in his military uniform, he was able to blend in with the escort party of NSW Lancers. Lang was about to cut the ribbon to formally open the bridge, when de\u00a0Groot rode forward and drew his ceremonial sword, attempting to cut the ribbon and declare the bridge open \"in the name of the decent and respectable people of New South Wales\". While many accounts say de\u00a0Groot succeeded in slashing the ribbon, at least one eyewitness has disputed the claim and suggested it was probably broken by the hooves of his rearing horse.\nHe said this was in protest that the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Philip Game, had not been invited to perform the ceremony. The Mayor of North Sydney, Hubert Primrose, an official participant at the opening ceremony, was also a member of the New Guard, but whether he was involved in planning de\u00a0Groot's act is unknown. De\u00a0Groot was also said to have later joined the White Army, another fascist organisation founded in Victoria in 1931.\nArrest.\nW. J. Mackay, Chief of the CBI pulled de\u00a0Groot from his horse, arrested him, and confiscated his ceremonial sword. Initially he was taken to a small police station attached to the toll house on the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Later in the day he was sent to the Lunatic Reception House at Darlinghurst, where he was formally charged with being insane and not under proper care and control. On the same afternoon de\u00a0Groot was examined by Eric Hilliard, psychiatrist and medical superintendent of Parramatta Mental Hospital, who determined that de\u00a0Groot was not insane. The following day de\u00a0Groot was examined by W.S. Dawson, Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Sydney, and by John McPherson. Both doctors found him to be completely sane.\nOn 21 March 1932, de\u00a0Groot appeared before Mr. McDougall, Stipendiary Magistrate, for the hearing of the charge of insanity. Detective Superintendent Mackay gave evidence to the effect that de\u00a0Groot's actions on the Bridge were those of an insane man. Subsequently, Eric Hilliard gave his opinion, based on his examination of de\u00a0Groot, that de\u00a0Groot was sane. The magistrate subsequently ordered de\u00a0Groot's discharge from the Reception House.\nCharges.\nDe\u00a0Groot was subsequently charged with three offences. The three charges brought against him were:\nThe charges were heard on 1, 4, 5, and 6 April 1932 in the Central Police Court in Liverpool Street, Sydney before John Laidlaw, Chief Stipendiary Magistrate of New South Wales.\nWhile the first and third charges laid against him were dismissed, the Magistrate did find de\u00a0Groot guilty of offensive behaviour in Bradfield Highway\u00a0\u2013 a public place. He was fined the maximum penalty of \u00a35, with \u00a34 in costs. The Magistrate found that \"...\u00a0the actions of the defendant were grossly offensive, provocative, and clearly unlawful\".\nLater, de Groot sued the Commissioner of police for wrongful arrest, and case was eventually settled out of court with de Groot receiving damages amounting to \u00a369/1/9 (\u00a3 or $138.18).\nHorse.\nThe horse ridden by de\u00a0Groot at the opening ceremony was a 16.2-hand chestnut named \"Mick\". The horse belonged to a Pymble schoolgirl, Margo Reichard, and was borrowed by the leader of the New Guard, Eric Campbell, from her father Albert Reichard. After the escapade, the horse was initially taken to the Mounted Police Barracks before being returned to its owner. In about 1933 the horse had a fall while being ridden by Albert Reichard, and was put down.\nLater life.\nAfter the court case he sued for wrongful arrest on the grounds that a police officer had no right to arrest an officer of the Hussars. An out-of-court settlement was reached, and de\u00a0Groot's ceremonial sword was returned to him. He later returned to Ireland, where he died on 1 April 1969.\nBefore his death, de\u00a0Groot indicated he would like to see the sword returned to Australia. In 2004, the sword was found on a farm in County Wicklow, in the possession of de\u00a0Groot's nephew. Plans were announced to have it valued and returned to Australia, possibly as a display at the National Museum of Australia. However, the museum was outbid by Paul Cave, the founder and chairman of BridgeClimb Sydney, the tourism company that conducted climbs across the Harbour Bridge. The sword was presented to Bridge Climb Sydney by prior students of Blackrock College, de Groot's old school, during a school reunion for ex-students now living in Australia."}
{"id": "756782", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756782", "title": "Furling (Stargate)", "text": ""}
{"id": "756786", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756786", "title": "National Lottery (UK)", "text": ""}
{"id": "756800", "revid": "4389183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756800", "title": "United States Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps", "text": "The Judge Advocate General's Corps, also known as the \"JAG Corps\" or \"JAG\", is the legal arm of the United States Navy. Today, the JAG Corps consists of a worldwide organization of more than 1,000 commissioned officers serving as judge advocates, 550 enlisted members (primarily in the legalman rating), and nearly 700 civilian personnel, all serving under the direction of the judge advocate general of the Navy. The organization also includes more than 550 Reserve office and enlisted members in the Navy Reserve Law Program. \nThe Office of the Judge Advocate General of the Navy is located in Washington, D.C.\nHistory.\nIn 1775, the Continental Congress enacted the Articles of Conduct, governing the ships and men of the Continental Navy. However, all of these ships were soon sold and Navy and Marine Corps were disbanded. In July 1797, Congress authorized the construction of six frigates and enacted the Rules for Regulation of the Navy as a temporary measure. Then, in 1800, Congress enacted a more sophisticated code adopted directly from the British Naval Code of 1749. There was little or no need for lawyers to interpret these simple codes, nor was there a need for lawyers in the uncomplicated administration of the Navy prior to the Civil War.\nDuring the Civil War, however, Secretary of the Navy Gideon Welles named a young assistant U.S. attorney in the District of Columbia named Nathaniel Wilson to present the government's case in complicated courts-martial. Without any statutory authority, Secretary Welles gave Wilson the title of \"Solicitor of the Navy Department,\" making him the first house counsel to the U.S. Navy.\nBy the Act of March 2, 1865, Congress authorized the president \"to appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for service during the rebellion and one year thereafter, an officer of the [Navy] to be called the 'Solicitor and Naval Judge Advocate General.'\" The United States Congress maintained the billet on a year-to-year basis by amendments to the Naval Appropriations Acts. In 1870, Congress transferred the billet to a newly established Justice Department with the title of Naval Solicitor.\nColonel William Butler Remey, U.S. Marine Corps, was the first uniformed chief legal officer of the Navy, in 1878. Colonel Remey was able to convince Congress that the Navy Department needed a permanent uniformed judge advocate general and that naval law was so unique it would be better to appoint a line officer of the Navy or Marine Corps. The bill to create the billet of judge advocate general of the Navy was signed in 1880.\nThe Naval Appropriations Act of 1918 elevated the billets of navy bureau chiefs and judge advocate general to rear admiral. In July 1918, Captain George Ramsey Clark was appointed the first judge advocate general to hold the rank of rear admiral.\nIn 1946, the Naval Justice School was established at Port Hueneme, Calif., to provide legal training for all Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard lawyers, enlisted legal professionals, active and reserve.\nIn 1947, the Navy created a \"law specialist\" program to allow line officers restricted duty to perform legal services. By the Act of May 5, 1950, Congress required that the judge advocate general be a lawyer. The act also required each judge advocate general of any service be a member of the bar with not less than eight years of legal duties as a commissioned officer. The Act also enacted the first Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).\nBy 1967, the Navy had 20 years of experience with the law specialist program. There was, however, increasing pressure to create a separate corps of lawyers. That year, Congress decided to establish the Judge Advocate General's Corps within the Department of the Navy. The legislation was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson on December 8, 1967, and ensured navy lawyers as staff officers within the navy, and ensured Navy lawyers\u2019 status as members of a distinct professional group within the Navy, similar to physicians and chaplains.\nOn December 3, 1973, by Notice 5450, the chief of naval operations (CNO) officially established the Naval Legal Service, \u201cto administer the legal services program and provide command direction for all Naval Legal Service activities and resources as may be assigned; and to perform such other functions or tasks as may be related to the Naval Legal Service as directed by the CNO.\u201d Navy Legal Service Offices were created in 1976 and responsible for providing defense and legal assistance to eligible personnel; Trial Service Offices were established in the mid-1990s and responsible for providing courts-martial prosecution, court reporting and administrative trial support; and Staff Judge Advocates provided legal advice to U.S. naval base commanding officers. In 2004, the judge advocate general approved the merger of the Navy's Trial Service Offices and Staff Judge Advocates into new commands known as Region Legal Service Offices. On October 1, 2012, the eight Navy Legal Service Offices were disestablished and four Defense Service Offices were established.\nIn 2023, the Navy significantly reformed its military justice system and established the Office of Special Trial Counsel, which oversees the prosecution of sailors and other service members who commit personal violence offenses, including sexual assault.\nToday, the judge advocate general directs a worldwide organization of active and reserve component judge advocates, active and reserve component enlisted, and civilian personnel. The judge advocate general provides legal and policy advice to the secretary of the Navy in all legal matters concerning military justice, administrative law, environmental law, ethics, claims, admiralty, operational and international law, litigation, and legal assistance.\nInsignia.\nThe distinctive JAG Corps insignia incorporates the millrind. In ancient France, the fer de moline, or millrind, was a symbol of equal justice for all under the law. The two counterbalancing oak leaves are identical and connote the scales upon which justice is weighed. Oak leaves denote a corps and symbolize strength, particularly the strength of the oak-timbered hulls of the early American Navy ships. In the milling of grains, the millrind was used to keep the stone-grinding wheels an equal distance apart to provide consistency in the milling process. Thus, it symbolizes the wheels of justice that must grind exceedingly fine and exceptionally even. In the 16th century, the millrind was adopted in England as a symbol for lawyers and later brought to America.\nThe legalman insignia incorporates the millrind and quill pen. The quill pen annotates the administrative nature and responsibilities that paralegals have for their attorneys.\nLegalman.\nLegalmen are trained paralegals who assist Navy and Marine Corps judge advocates and work in Navy legal offices throughout the fleet.\nOn January 4, 1972, Secretary of the Navy John H. Chafee approved the recommendation for establishment of the legalman enlisted rating. A memorandum from the chairman of the Rating Review Board announced the approval, stating in part, \"the scope of the new rating will provide judge advocates with the personnel trained in court reporting, claims matters, investigations, legal administration, and legal research. This scope is in consonance with the new concept in the civilian legal community where many areas of legal services can be provided by competent trained personnel under the supervision of a lawyer.\" On October 4, 1972, 275 petty officers were selected for conversion to the new legalman rating.\nIn 2007, the legalman education and training pipeline was adapted in order to fully train legalmen as paralegals. The Naval Justice School's curriculum was adapted to include four American Bar Association approved paralegal college courses. Legalmen now leave Naval Justice School with 10 semester hours of college credit in paralegal studies.\nJudge Advocate General of the Navy.\nThe judge advocate general of the Navy and the deputy judge advocate general of the Navy are appointed positions. They are both nominated by the U.S. president and must be confirmed via majority vote by the U.S. Senate. They are appointed to a four-year term of office but they usually serve for three. They have historically been officers in the service of the Navy. Federal statutes, however, state that a Marine officer can be appointed to either position as long as they meet the requirements stated in the section. Currently, the judge advocate general is appointed as a three-star vice admiral or lieutenant general while holding office, and the deputy judge advocate general is currently appointed as a two-star rear admiral or a major general. Other than age and years of military service, there is no other statute of limitations on how many times they can be re-nominated for appointment to that position if the president so chooses.\nOffices.\nHeadquarters.\nDefense Service Offices (DSO).\nNorth\nWest\nPacific\nSoutheast\nRegion Legal Service Offices (RLSO).\nNaval District Washington\nSoutheast\nMid-Atlantic\nSouthwest\nNorthwest\nPacific\nEurope Africa Central"}
{"id": "756803", "revid": "51470213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756803", "title": "United States Air Force Judge Advocate General's Corps", "text": "The Judge Advocate General's Corps also known as the \"JAG Corps\" or \"JAG\" is the legal arm of the United States Air Force.\nHistory.\nThe United States Air Force became a separate military service in September 1947. On June 25, 1948, Congress established an office of the Judge Advocate General (TJAG) in the United States Air Force. On July 8, 1949, the Air Force chief of staff designated 205 attorneys Air Force Judge Advocates. Thus, there were Air Force judge advocates three months before there was an Air Force judge advocate general. Following the promulgation of enabling legislation, the Air Force Judge Advocate General's Department was established on January 25, 1949, by Department of the Air Force General Order No. 7 (as amended by General Order No. 17, May 15, 1949). While this event was clearly the birth of the department, it really represented an interim step, providing the Air Force authority to administer its military justice system within the existing Air Force structure of the time until other legislation (what became the Uniform Code of Military Justice) could be developed and enacted. The department was originally a part of the Air Force Personnel Branch but became a separate entity reporting directly to the Air Force chief of staff in February 1950. The first Air Force judge advocate general, Major General Reginald C. Harmon, believed it important for Air Force JAGs to remain a part of a functionally interconnected military department. For that reason, the concept of a separate corps was discarded in favor of the department that existed until 2003.\nIn 2003, the Judge Advocate General's Department was renamed to the Judge Advocate General's Corps by order of the secretary of the Air Force, James G. Roche. In December 2004, the Air Force Judge Advocate General, Thomas J. Fiscus, accepted non-judicial punishment under Article 15 of the UCMJ, for conduct unbecoming of an officer and obstruction of justice related to numerous unprofessional sexual relationships with subordinates. Upon his retirement, Fiscus was reduced two grades, to colonel. Major General Jack Rives, the deputy judge advocate general, became the Air Force judge advocate general as of February 2006. On July 23, 2008, General Rives was confirmed as a lieutenant general, becoming the first TJAG to hold that rank.\nOn December 15, 2009, the president nominated Brigadier General Richard C. Harding to serve as the 16th judge advocate general. On February 2, 2010, the Senate Armed Services Committee endorsed the nomination and the Senate voted to confirm the nomination. Lieutenant General Rives retired on February 5, 2010, accepting the position of executive director and chief operating officer of the American Bar Association, and now-Lieutenant General Richard Harding became the 16th judge advocate general of the Air Force. His formal investiture and promotion ceremony occurred on February 23, 2010. General Harding's term as the judge advocate general ended on January 31, 2014.\nOn May 22, 2014, the Senate confirmed Brigadier General Christopher F. Burne to serve as the 17th judge advocate general in the grade of lieutenant general. He was promoted and began duties as The Judge Advocate General on the following day. Lieutenant General Burne's term as The Judge Advocate General ended on May 18, 2018.\nOn January 30, 2018, the Senate confirmed Major General Jeffrey A. Rockwell, who was then serving as deputy judge advocate general, to serve as the 18th judge advocate general in the grade of lieutenant general. That same day, the Senate also confirmed Brigadier General Charles L. Plummer to serve as Deputy Judge Advocate General in the grade of major general. Lieutenant General Rockwell's formal investiture ceremony occurred on May 21, 2018.\nJAG School.\nThe Air Force Judge Advocate General's School was founded in 1950 and has been located in the William Louis Dickinson Law Center, at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Alabama, since 1993. The school provides instruction to new judge advocates and paralegals, in addition to offering approximately 30 continuing legal education courses. The school publishes scholarly legal journals such as \"The Air Force Law Review\", semiannually, and \"The Reporter\" online. The school also produces \"The Military Commander and the Law\", a publication that is invaluable not only to judge advocates, but commanders and first sergeants in handling the myriad of legal issues that arise with a squadron or wing, and for the continued enforcement of good order and discipline."}
{"id": "756812", "revid": "1295307128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756812", "title": "Captain Skyhawk", "text": "Captain Skyhawk is a scrolling shooter video game developed by Rare for the Nintendo Entertainment System. The game was released in North America by Milton Bradley in June 1990 and in Europe by Nintendo in 1991. It was also released for arcades by Nintendo in 1990. It was based on a concept from Milton Bradley, with Rare being contracted to develop the game.\nGameplay.\nThe game is reminiscent of Sega's \"Zaxxon\". The game features top-down scrolling overhead isometric graphics, including simulated 3D terrain. The terrain mimics the look of flight simulators available for the PC at the time. The game player is the pilot of the plane, code-named the F-14VTS (a fictional version of the F-14), and must avoid the mountainous terrain while annihilating aliens.\nThere are a total of nine missions in the game. The first seven have three objectives each while missions eight and nine have two objectives and one objective, respectively. Each level has multiple routes, some of which allow the player to bypass large gatherings of hostiles. The objectives vary across missions and include destroying an enemy base, dropping supplies, fighting aerial battles, picking up a scientist, and docking with a space station.\nWeapons.\nThe player can fire four types of weapons: Cannon, Phoenix Air Intercept Missiles, Maverick air-to-ground missiles, and Hawk bombs. The cannon is the only weapon with an unlimited supply. The rest of the weapons must be purchased between missions after docking with the space station. The purchases are made with credits obtained through the levels by destroying all aliens that are in a group. Purchasing additional cannons allows the player to fire much more rapidly.\nLevel design.\nEach main level in \"Captain Skyhawk\" is an isometric plane. After the boss of the stage is destroyed or the packages are delivered the player moves on to a rear-facing 2D screen where he must destroy the enemy planes to gain credits to buy weapons in the space station on the end of the levels. The last space station is replaced with the alien mother-ship.\nStory.\nThe player takes a role of a fighter pilot working to repel an alien invasion. Aliens have invaded Earth, and have built four land bases. These bases are designed to drain Earth's energy and feed it to their mother space station. If the space station is allowed to obtain enough energy, it will destroy the Earth with a massive laser blast. The player must destroy the enemy bases, then go after the space station itself. Scientists, during the course of the game, are working on a top-secret Neutron Cannon. During several missions, the player must make supply drops to the scientists working underground. Sometimes, the aliens will have a scientist captive. Then the player must defeat the alien base and take the scientist to safety.\nRetrospective commentary.\nThe game received positive retrospective reviews from online critics."}
{"id": "756815", "revid": "337225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756815", "title": "ERCP", "text": ""}
{"id": "756823", "revid": "5286041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756823", "title": "Palace of the People", "text": ""}
{"id": "756834", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756834", "title": "Explorer of the Seas", "text": "Explorer of the Seas is a owned and operated by Royal Caribbean International, completed in 2000. She can accommodate over 3,000 guests, including scientists making use of a built-in atmospheric and oceanographic laboratory operated by the University of Miami's Rosenstiel School of Marine, Atmospheric, and Earth Science. The lab, with its attendant educational and outreach programs for passengers, was discontinued in 2007.\nHistory.\nThe \"Explorer of the Seas\" was completed in 2000 and has the capacity of 3,000 passengers.\nAn automated system for gathering data was installed in 2008.) At launch, \"Explorer of the Seas\" had a tonnage of , exceeding that of her sister ship by 32 GT and making her the world's largest passenger ship. She held that record until being overtaken by in 2002. In early 2015, \"Explorer of the Seas\" received major upgrades, including the replacement of the inline skating rink with a Flowrider surfing simulator and increasing her tonnage to 138,194 GT. The ship's godmother is American athlete Jackie Joyner-Kersee.\nIn 2019 September, it was announced that the ship will get a refurbishment with $110 million in makeovers before its 2020 summer season. The refurbishment that was to take place under the amplification program in 2020 was delayed indefinitely due to the COVID-19 pandemic, instead only technical refurbishment took place.\nIn July 2021, the ship was used to house some rescue workers and other officials involved in the rescue and recovery effort of the Surfside condominium building collapse.\nPorts of call.\nIn fall 2014, she sailed 5 to 9-day Caribbean cruises out of Port Canaveral, Florida. After dry-dock refurbishment in the spring of 2015, \"Explorer of the Seas\" began to sail Northern Europe, Mediterranean, and Madeira, Azores and Canary Islands itineraries out of Southampton, Hampshire, United Kingdom.\nFrom November 2015 to 23 April 2016 \"Explorer of the Seas\" was based in Sydney, Australia, for the summer cruise season. A 24-day cruise relocated the ship to Seattle for the summer 2016 season. In 2019 January, the ship brought 4,000 passengers to Wollongong.\nAccidents and incidents.\nRescue of \"Tumbleweed\".\nOn 16 February 2008, while en route from Bayonne, New Jersey, on a nine-day cruise to the Caribbean the bridge crew heard a faint mayday call over the radio. This turned out to be the crew from \"Tumbleweed\", a sailing vessel, which had a planned sail from Baltimore to the Florida Keys. The crew reportedly had a mechanical breakdown of both engine and sails. The vessel drifted for 11 days to the location N32.35 W 72.49\u2013roughly southeast of North Carolina. \"Explorer of the Seas\" located and rescued the three men, who then departed the ship in Puerto Rico on 21 February 2008.\nCrew overboard.\nOn 5 May 2010, a crewmember was caught on surveillance jumping overboard. The ship turned around to rescue him but was unable to locate the crewmember.\n\"Norwegian Star\" collision.\nOn 14 September 2012, \"Explorer of the Seas\" was moored in Bermuda when heavy winds pushed Norwegian Cruise Line's at its stern. Neither ship suffered any significant damage.\nNorovirus outbreak.\nOn 24 January 2014, 281 passengers and 22 crew members aboard \"Explorer of the Seas\" fell ill, reporting symptoms of vomiting and diarrhea. Due to the number of passengers sick, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sent a Sanitation Program Officer and an epidemiologist to the ship on Sunday, 26 January 2014, when it was docked in St. Thomas. By 27 January 2014 the number of ill increased to 564 passengers and 47 crew members and a decision was made to end the cruise early. After \"Explorer of the Seas\" returned to port, 684 of the 4,237 aboard had symptoms of norovirus.\nGastro outbreak.\nOn 16 December 2015, A total of 182 passengers out of the 3,566 on board Explorer of the Seas contracted infectious diarrhea. The ship's operator contacted South Eastern Sydney Local Health District before arriving in Sydney at 6am. None of the passengers were taken to hospital. It was also on this cruise that all of the passengers on board experienced a freak storm on 15 December 2015. During this storm the ship experienced a crosswind of and the ship listed to the port side by 10 degrees.\nOn 4 November 2019, the ship was forced to delay her arrival back in Southampton due to the heavy storms battering Western Europe.\nCoronavirus pandemic.\nDuring the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that at least one passenger had tested positive for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 within 14 days of disembarking from the ship on its voyage from 8 to 15 March 2020.\nSurfside search and rescue.\nAfter the June 2021 Surfside condominium collapse, \"Explorer of the Seas\" was moored nearby to host nearly 600 search and rescue personnel assisting with the incident.\nPassenger overboard.\nOn 9 August 2024, an unnamed passenger from the United Kingdom fell overboard as the ship traveled from Santorini, Greece to Zadar, Croatia. Search efforts commenced, with the Croatian Coast Guard assisting, and a planned stop in Zadar was cancelled. The search was called off after four days.\nStorm troubles.\nOn 7 November 2024 a storm affected the ship near the Canary Islands, causing a 14.5\u00ba heel, some injuries and material damage.\nPassenger overboard.\nOn 2 March 2025, a female passenger went overboard on the first day of a themed \"The 80s Cruise\" traveling from Miami to Nassau, Bahamas. The ship stopped for search and rescue, but resumed course several hours later while the Coast Guard continued search and recovery efforts."}
{"id": "756835", "revid": "125972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756835", "title": "Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography", "text": "Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is a technique that combines the use of endoscopy and fluoroscopy to diagnose and treat certain problems of the biliary or pancreatic ductal systems. It is primarily performed by highly skilled and specialty trained gastroenterologists. Through the endoscope, the physician can see the inside of the stomach and duodenum, and inject a contrast medium into the ducts in the biliary tree and/or pancreas so they can be seen on radiographs.\nERCP is used primarily to diagnose and treat conditions of the bile ducts and main pancreatic duct, including gallstones, inflammatory strictures (scars), leaks (from trauma and surgery), and cancer.\nERCP can be performed for diagnostic and therapeutic reasons, although the development of safer and relatively non-invasive investigations such as magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) and endoscopic ultrasound has meant that ERCP is now rarely performed without therapeutic intent.\nMedical uses.\nDiagnostic.\nThe following represent indications for ERCP, particularly if or when less invasive options are not adequate or definitive:\nTherapeutic.\nERCP may be indicated in the above diagnostic scenarios when any of the following are needed:\nContraindications.\nHypersensitivity to iodinated contrast medium or a history of iodinated contrast dye anaphylaxis is not a contraindication of ERCP, though it should be discussed with your health provider, and you should tell them you are allergic to iodine, as an alternative contrast iodine-free material (\"dye\") is then injected gently into the ducts (pancreatic or biliary) and x-rays are taken.\nProcedure.\nThe patient is sedated or anaesthetized. Then a flexible camera (endoscope) is inserted through the mouth, down the esophagus, into the stomach, through the pylorus into the duodenum where the ampulla of Vater (the union of the common bile duct and pancreatic duct) exists. The sphincter of Oddi is a muscular valve that controls the opening to the ampulla. The region can be directly visualized with the endoscopic camera while various procedures are performed. A plastic catheter or \"\" is inserted through the ampulla, and radiocontrast is injected into the bile ducts and/or pancreatic duct. Fluoroscopy is used to look for blockages, or other lesions such as stones.\nWhen needed, the sphincters of the ampulla and bile ducts can be enlarged by a cut (sphincterotomy) with an electrified wire called a sphincterotome for access into either so that gallstones may be removed or other therapy performed.\nOther procedures associated with ERCP include the trawling of the common bile duct with a basket or balloon to remove gallstones and the insertion of a plastic stent to assist the drainage of bile. Also, the pancreatic duct can be cannulated and stents be inserted.\nThe pancreatic duct requires visualisation in cases of pancreatitis. Ultrasound is frequently the first investigation performed on admission; although it has little value in the diagnosis of pancreatitis or its complications. contrast-enhanced computed tomography (MD-CECT) is the most used imaging technique. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) offers diagnostic capabilities similar to those of CT, with additional intrinsic advantages including lack of ionizing radiation and exquisite soft tissue characterization.\nIn specific cases, other specialized or ancillary endoscopes may be used for ERCP. These include mother-baby and SpyGlass cholangioscopes (to help in diagnosis by directly visualizing the duct as opposed to only obtaining X-ray images) as well as balloon enteroscopes (e.g. in patients that have previously undergone digestive system surgery with post-Whipple or Roux-en-Y surgical anatomy).\nRisks.\nOne of the most frequent and feared complications after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is post-ERCP pancreatitis (PEP). In previous studies, the incidence of PEP has been estimated at 3.5 to 5%. According to Cotton et al., PEP is defined as a \"clinical pancreatitis with amylase at least three times the upper limit of normal at more than 24 hours after the procedure requiring hospital admission or prolongation of planned admission\". Grading of severity of PEP is mainly based on the length of hospital stay.\nRisk factors for developing PEP include technical matters related to the ERCP procedure and patient-specific ones. The technical factors include manipulation of and injection of contrast into the pancreatic duct, cannulation attempts lasting more than five minutes, and biliary balloon sphincter dilation; among patient-related factors are female gender, younger age, and Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. A systematic review of clinical trials concluded that a previous history of PEP or pancreatitis significantly increases the risk for PEP to 17.8% and to 5.5% respectively.\nIntestinal perforation is a risk of any gastroenterologic endoscopic procedure, and is an additional risk if a sphincterotomy is performed. As the second part of the duodenum is anatomically in a retroperitoneal location (that is, behind the peritoneal structures of the abdomen), perforations due to sphincterotomies are retroperitoneal. Sphincterotomy is also associated with a risk of bleeding. ERCP may provoke hemobilia from trauma to friable hilar tumors or a guide-wire penetrating the bile duct wall, creating a biliary fistula. Delayed bleeding is a rare but potentially serious complication of sphincterotomy, particularly as many patients are discharged home within hours of ERCP.\nThere is also a risk associated with the contrast dye in patients who are allergic to compounds containing iodine, which can be very severe, even if the anaphylactoid reactions occur while patients are in a hospital.\nOversedation can result in dangerously low blood pressure, respiratory depression, nausea, and vomiting.\nOther complications (less than 1%) may include heart and lung problems, infection in the bile duct called cholangitis, that can be life-threatening, and is regarded as a medical emergency. Using antibiotics before the procedure shows some benefits to prevent cholangitis and septicaemia. In rare cases, ERCP can cause fatal complications.\nCases of hospital-acquired (i.e., nosocomial) infections with carbapenem resistant enterobacteriaceae linked to incompletely disinfected duodenoscopes have occurred in the U.S. since at least 2009 per the Food and Drug Administration. Outbreaks were reported from Virginia Mason Hospital in Seattle in 2013, UCLA Health System Los Angeles in 2015, Chicago and Pittsburgh. The FDA issued a safety communication \"Design of ERCP Duodenoscopes May Impede Effective Cleaning\" in February 2015, which was updated in December 2015, and more recently in 2022 which recommended disposable components.\nPrevalence of vitamin K and vitamin D deficiency, as bile is to assist in the breakdown and absorption of fat in the intestinal tract; a relative deficiency of bile can lead to fat malabsorption and deficiencies of fat-soluble vitamins."}
{"id": "756836", "revid": "1292862965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756836", "title": "Ray Nance", "text": "Ray Willis Nance (December 10, 1913 \u2013 January 28, 1976) was an American jazz trumpeter, violinist and singer. He is best remembered for his long association with Duke Ellington and his orchestra.\nEarly years.\nNance was born in Chicago on December 10, 1913. He started playing the violin at the age of 9 and was so proficient by the time he was 14 that he enrolled at the Chicago College of Music. In high school, he taught himself trumpet because \u201cI wanted to hear myself on a louder instrument in way I couldn't do with a violin in an orchestra.\u201d He was the leader of his own band in Chicago from 1932 to 1937. An ad in a June 1933 prom book at the Edgewater Beach Hotel for the Staples Cafe, 6344 N. Broadway, Chicago shows \"Ray Nance and His Ebony Aces.\" Then, he worked with Earl Hines from 1937 to 1939; and from 1939 to 1940 he worked with Horace Henderson.\nEllington tenure.\nEllington hired Nance to replace trumpeter Cootie Williams, who had joined Benny Goodman, in 1940. Nance's first recorded performance with Ellington was at the Fargo, North Dakota ballroom dance. Shortly after joining the band, Nance was given the trumpet solo on the earliest recorded version of \"Take the \"A\" Train\", which became the Ellington theme. Nance's \"A Train\" solo is one of the most copied and admired trumpet solos in jazz history. Indeed, when Cootie Williams returned to the band more than twenty years later, he would play Nance's solo on \"A Train\" almost exactly as the original.\nNance was often featured on violin, and was the only violin soloist ever featured in Ellington's orchestra (especially noteworthy is his violin contribution to the original 1942 version of \"The 'C' Jam Blues\"). He is also one of the better known male vocalists associated with Ellington's orchestra. On later recordings of \"It Don't Mean a Thing (If It Ain't Got That Swing)\", Nance took the previously instrumental horn riff into the lead vocal, which constitute the line \"Doo wha, doo wha, doo wha, doo wha, yeah!\" He was often featured as vocalist on \"Jump for Joy,\" \"Just A-Sittin' and A-Rockin'\" and \"Just Squeeze Me (But Please Don't Tease Me)\". His multiple talents (trumpet, violin, vocals and also dancing) earned him the nickname \"Floorshow\".\nNance was absent from the Duke Ellington Orchestra for three or four months in 1946, including the date of that year's Carnegie Hall concert. In 1949, Nance participated, along with Ellington sidemen Russell Procope, Johnny Hodges and Sonny Greer on several Ivory Joe Hunter sessions, for King Records of Cincinnati.\nPost-Ellington years.\nHe left Ellington in 1963 during their Middle East tour after having played alongside his returned predecessor Cootie Williams for a year. He continued to make several guest appearances in the orchestra over the years and later toured and recorded in England in 1974.\nNance made a few recordings as a bandleader, and also recorded or performed with Earl Hines, Rosemary Clooney, Jaki Byard, Chico Hamilton and others.\nDiscography.\nAs sideman.\nWith Ahmed Abdul-Malik\nWith Jaki Byard\nWith Duke Ellington\nWith Horace Henderson\nWith Earl Hines\nWith Johnny Hodges\nWith Budd Johnson\nWith Joya Sherrill"}
{"id": "756838", "revid": "36269730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756838", "title": "Siglud", "text": ""}
{"id": "756840", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756840", "title": "Pervomartovtsy", "text": "Pervomartovtsy (; a compound term literally meaning \"those of March\u00a01\") were the Russian revolutionaries, members of \"Narodnaya Volya\", planners and executors of the assassination of Alexander II of Russia (March 1, 1881) and the attempted assassination of Alexander III of Russia (March\u00a01, 1887, also known as \"The Second First of March\").\nMarch 1, 1881.\nThe assassination in 1881 was planned by Narodnaya Volya's Executive Committee. Andrei Zhelyabov was the main organizer. After his arrest on February\u00a027, he was replaced by Sophia Perovskaya.\nAlexander II was killed on March\u00a01, 1881 by a bomb, thrown by Ignacy Hryniewiecki. Hryniewiecki wounded himself fatally in the assassination; Nikolai Sablin committed suicide. Accomplices - Zhelyabov, Perovskaya, Nikolai Kibalchich, Hesya Helfman, Timofei Mikhailov, Nikolai Rysakov - were tried by the Special Tribunal of the Ruling Senate on March 26-29 and sentenced to death by hanging. On April\u00a03, 1881 five Pervomartovtsy were hanged (except for Helfman, whose execution had been postponed due to her pregnancy. Her execution was later replaced with katorga (forced penal labor) for an indefinite period of time; she nevertheless died of a post-natal complication in prison). \nMarch 1, 1887.\nThe second \"First of March\" was planned by members of the \"terrorist faction\" of \"Narodnaya Volya\", including Aleksandr Ulyanov (brother of Vladimir Lenin). On March 1, 1887, they came to St. Petersburg's Nevsky Prospekt with bombs and waited for the carriage of Tsar Alexander III to pass by. However, they were arrested on the spot before his arrival. All of the 15 accomplices - Aleksandr Ulyanov, Petr Shevyrev (main organizers), Pakhomiy Andreyushkin, Vasili Generalov, Vasili Osipanov (bombthrowers) and ten other people - were tried by the Special Senate Committee on April 15\u201319 and sentenced. The first five were hanged on May 8, 1887; the rest were sentenced to prison, banishment, or katorga."}
{"id": "756843", "revid": "8874354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756843", "title": "Trafalgar (album)", "text": "Trafalgar is a 1971 album by the Bee Gees. It was their ninth album (seventh internationally), and was released in September 1971 in the US, and November 1971 in the UK. The album was a moderate hit in the United States, and peaked at No. 34. The lead single \"How Can You Mend a Broken Heart?\" was the first Bee Gees' No. 1 single in the United States but failed to chart in Britain as did the album. It is Geoff Bridgford's only full-length appearance on a Bee Gees album as an official member.\n\"Trafalgar\" is included in Robert Dimery's book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\".\nRecording.\nIn December 1970, barely more than two months after the group recorded their last session for the \"2 Years On\" album, they recorded \"Together\", \"Over the Hill and Over the Mountain\", \"Merrily Merry Eyes\" and \"When Do I\". They returned to the studio with new backing band member, guitarist Alan Kendall, who would play on the majority of their subsequent albums. Several songs were recorded around this time which have not officially been released. All of the songs chosen for release were ballads. Recording began on 28 January 1971 with \"We Lost the Road\", \"When Do I\" and \"How Can You Mend a Broken Heart\" (\"We Lost the Road\" was held over for use on the following album \"To Whom It May Concern\"). Recording continued through April with several demos and out-takes recorded but not released.\nRelease.\nWith \"How Can You Mend a Broken Heart\" as the lead single from the album, \"Don't Wanna Live Inside Myself\" was released as the second single but only reached No. 57 on the US charts. \"Israel\" was released as a single in the Netherlands and reached No. 22. The album's cover depicts the battle of Trafalgar. Bridgford was credited on the sleeve notes on the original vinyl release as \"Jeoff Bridgford\".\nIn support of the album, The Bee Gees toured the US in the fall of 1971, playing such cities as Boston, Asbury Park, New York City (7 shows), Memphis, Kansas City, and Indianapolis.\nTrack listing.\nAlternate version.\nSide one\nSide two\nPersonnel.\nCredits from Bee Gees historian and sessionographer Joseph Brennan.\nBee Gees"}
{"id": "756844", "revid": "1879095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756844", "title": "Halve Maen", "text": "Halve Maen (; ) was a Dutch East India Company \"jacht\" (similar to a carrack) that sailed into what is now New York Harbor in September 1609. She had a length of 21 metres and was commissioned by the VOC Chamber of Amsterdam in the Dutch Republic to covertly find a northern passage to Asia. The ship was captained by Henry Hudson, an Englishman in the service of the Dutch Republic.\nIn 1909, the Kingdom of the Netherlands presented the United States with a replica of \"Halve Maen\" to commemorate the 300th anniversary of Hudson's voyage; the replica was destroyed in a fire in 1934. Over 50 years later, in 1989, the New Netherland Museum commissioned a second replica, which sailed for several decades along the Hudson River until it was transported in 2015 to the Westfries Museum in Hoorn, Netherlands, where it is permanently moored.\nHistory.\n\"Halve Maen\" was built on a wharf on Rapenburg.\nOn behalf of the Dutch East India Company, she set sail from the Netherlands on April 6, 1609 under the command of the Englishman Henry Hudson to explore the northwest passage to the Pacific. After a severe storm in ice and snow in the North Cape, the expedition finally reached the Newfoundland Bank and what is now Canada. From Cape Sable, Hudson followed the eastern American coast south to the Delaware River, past Manhattan and Long Island. In the summer of 1609, Hudson sailed the Hudson River named after him to what is now Albany. Since Hudson could not find a passage to the Pacific this way, he returned to the Netherlands.\nIn his 1625 book \"New World\", which contains invaluable extracts from Hudson's lost journal, Johannes de Laet, a director of the West India Company, writes that they \"bent their course to the south until, running south-southwest and southwest by south, they again made land in latitude 41\u00b0 43\u2019, which they supposed to be an island, and gave it the name of New Holland, but afterwards discovered that it was Cape Cod\".\nFrom there they sailed south to the Chesapeake Bay and then went north along the coast navigating first the Delaware Bay and, subsequently, the bay of the river which Hudson named the Mauritius River, for Holland's Lord-Lieutenant Maurits. \"Halve Maen\" sailed up Hudson's river as far as Kinderhook, and the ship's boat with five crew members ventured to the vicinity of present-day Albany, New York, where the crew determined the water was too narrow and too shallow for further progress. Concluding then that the river was also not a passage to the west, Hudson exited the river, naming the natives that dwelled on either side of the Mauritius estuary the Manahata. Leaving the estuary, he sailed north-eastward, never realizing that what are now the islands of Manhattan and Long Island were islands, and crossed the Atlantic to England where he sailed into Dartmouth harbor with the Dutch East India Company ship and crew.\nIn 1618, or a few years after, the ship was destroyed during an English attack on Jakarta in the Dutch East Indies.\nReplicas.\n1909 replica.\nIn 1909 a replica of \"Halve Maen\" was given to the United States by the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the occasion of the 300th anniversary of Hudson's voyage. The ship was constructed at the \"Rijksmarinewerf\" in Amsterdam. The keel was laid on 29 October 1908, and on 15 April 1909 the ship was launched and then transported to the US on the Holland America Lines freight liner \"Soestdijk\" in order to attend the 1909 Hudson-Fulton Celebration in New York, arriving in July. She appeared in a parade with the American replica ship \"Clermont\" celebrating Robert Fulton. This replica was eventually towed to Cohoes, New York, and perished in a fire in 1934; the \"Clermont\" was broken up for scrap 3 years later.\n1989 replica.\nAnother replica of \"Halve Maen\" (officially Anglicized as \"Half Moon\") was constructed in Albany, New York, in 1989 by the New Netherland Museum. The museum contracted with Nicholas S. Benton to design and build the replica. Benton, a master ship-rigger and shipwright, was president of the Rigging Gang of Middletown, Rhode Island, which specialized in colonial ship restoration and design. To prepare for building \"Half Moon\", a $1\u00a0million project, he visited maritime museums in the Netherlands and the United States. After his death while assisting with the rigging of another vessel, the construction of the \"Half Moon\" was completed by the New Netherland Museum, following delays and additional expenses.\nThe year 2009 marked NY400, the 400th anniversary of \"Halve Maen\"'s voyage. For the anniversary, the crown prince of the Netherlands and his wife were on board, as well as students from a Dutch school. This anniversary was marked in September 2009 with festivals, music, sailing ships parading around New York Harbor.\nA non-for-profit organization, \"Half Moon\" was run by a crew of volunteers that range in age from their teens to octogenarians.\nIn April 2015 the ship was transported on loan to the Westfries Museum in Hoorn, Netherlands. The replica took part in SAIL Amsterdam 2015. In 2019, the Hoorn Council decided not to renew their lease. Today, Halve Maen is located in the port of Enkhuizen and is open to the public at a permanent mooring.\nWeathervane.\nAt in both height and length, the model of \"Halve Maen\" on top of the SUNY System Administration Building in Albany, New York, is claimed to be the largest working weathervane in North America.\nIn popular culture.\n\"Halve Maen\" is mentioned in the 1819 story of Rip Van Winkle by Washington Irving, when the protagonist ventures into the Catskill Mountains and discovers Henry Hudson and the ship's crew."}
{"id": "756847", "revid": "37527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756847", "title": "Lahontan Reservoir", "text": ""}
{"id": "756850", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756850", "title": "Farinelli the castrato", "text": ""}
{"id": "756859", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756859", "title": "Star of the sea college", "text": ""}
{"id": "756860", "revid": "1754504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756860", "title": "Awayday", "text": ""}
{"id": "756864", "revid": "153226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756864", "title": "King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Diamond Stakes", "text": ""}
{"id": "756865", "revid": "3356899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756865", "title": "Cunt licking", "text": ""}
{"id": "756867", "revid": "16924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756867", "title": "Kegel exercises", "text": ""}
{"id": "756869", "revid": "68249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756869", "title": "Protocols of the elders of zion", "text": ""}
{"id": "756870", "revid": "24888299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756870", "title": "Pussy licking", "text": ""}
{"id": "756871", "revid": "13667518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756871", "title": "Jim Hall (musician)", "text": "James Stanley Hall (December 4, 1930 \u2013 December 10, 2013) was an American jazz guitarist, composer and arranger.\nBiography.\nEarly life and education.\nBorn in Buffalo, New York, Hall moved with his family to Cleveland, Ohio, during his childhood. Hall's mother played the piano, his grandfather played violin, and his uncle played guitar. He began playing the guitar at the age of 10, when his mother gave him an instrument as a Christmas present. At 13, he heard Charlie Christian play on a Benny Goodman record, which he calls his \"spiritual awakening\". As a teenager in Cleveland, he performed professionally, and also took up the double bass. Hall's major influences since childhood were tenor saxophonists Coleman Hawkins, Lester Young, Paul Gonsalves, and Lucky Thompson. While he copied out solos by Charlie Christian, and later Barney Kessel, it was horn players from whom he took the lead. In 1955, Hall attended the Cleveland Institute of Music, where he majored in composition, studying piano and bass in addition to theory.\nEarly professional career.\nIn 1956, Hall moved to Los Angeles, where he studied classical guitar with Vicente G\u00f3mez. In 1955 and 1956, Hall played in Chico Hamilton's quintet, a group associated with the cool jazz movement, and Hall's playing began to gain attention from critics and fellow musicians.\nHall left Hamilton's group to join another cool jazz ensemble, the Jimmy Giuffre Three, and he worked on and off with Giuffre from 1957 to 1960. Hall recorded his first solo album, \"Jazz Guitar\", for Pacific Jazz in 1957, though the album made only a modest impact, and Hall did not get to record a follow-up until 1969.\nDuring the late 1950s and early 1960s, Hall developed a preference for \"challenging arrangements and interactive improvisation in duos and trios\". He taught at the Lenox School of Jazz in Massachusetts in the summer of 1959. Hall toured during the late 1950s with Jazz at the Philharmonic and worked around this time in Los Angeles with Ben Webster, appearing on \"Ben Webster at the Renaissance\" (recorded in 1960). During 1959, he recorded the first of six albums as a featured soloist with Paul Desmond. In 1960, Hall also toured and recorded with Ella Fitzgerald in Europe.\nHall moved to New York City around 1960 and began performing with band leaders including Lee Konitz (1960\u201361), Sonny Rollins (1961\u201362, 1964), and Art Farmer (1962\u201364). He formed a studio partnership with Bill Evans during this time, appearing on five albums with Evans from 1962 to 1966. Hall also worked as a studio guitarist for commercial recording dates during the early and mid-1960s. As a freelance studio musician, he appeared on albums by singers Big Joe Turner, Johnny Hartman, June Christy, Big Miller, and Freda Payne, as well as on commercially oriented orchestral pop and jazz albums by Quincy Jones, Lalo Schifrin, Oliver Nelson, and Gary McFarland. His freelance jazz work in the 1960s covered a range of styles. He participated in cool jazz, bossa nova, and third stream albums led by John Lewis, Gerry Mulligan, Bob Brookmeyer, and Paul Desmond. Hall recorded bebop and hard bop sessions with Sonny Stitt, Nat Adderley, and Sonny Rollins. He recorded a soul jazz session with Hammond organist Paul Bryant.\nIn 1962, he led a trio with pianist Tommy Flanagan and bassist Ron Carter (who was replaced by Red Mitchell in 1965). Starting in 1963, Hall played in the studio orchestra for \"The Merv Griffin Show\", working with Bill Berry, Bob Brookmeyer, Benny Powell, Art Davis and Jake Hanna.\nIn the late 1960s, Hall decided to leave his television job and pursue a solo career more actively. He recorded and performed in Germany and Japan, appearing on the \"Berlin Festival Guitar Workshop\" LP (1968) alongside Barney Kessel and Baden Powell, and on the \"Guitar Genius In Japan\" LP (1970) alongside Kenny Burrell and Attila Zoller. The German MPS label recorded Hall's second solo album, \"It's Nice to Be With You\" in 1969. In 1971, he began recording for Milestone Records, whose co-founder Orrin Keepnews had produced several records with Hall when running his previous label, Riverside Records. While on Milestone, Hall recorded the first of three duet albums with Ron Carter. Moving to CTI Records, Hall made the 1975 \"Concierto\" album, which featured Paul Desmond and Chet Baker, and became a critical and financial success.\nHall was an arranger and composer, as much as a performer. He was known for developing motifs and using blues inflections. These characteristics are showcased in his 1975 album \"Jim Hall Live!\", with Don Thompson and Terry Clarke. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, Hall recorded with pianist George Shearing, classical violinist Itzhak Perlman, and had a studio reunion with Art Farmer. He also continued recording in duos with Red Mitchell and Ron Carter until 1985.\nLater life and career.\nHall recorded steadily from the 1970s until 2010, releasing albums on the Horizon, Concord, MusicMasters, and Telarc record labels.\nHall continued to tour all over the world during these years. His band members included drummers Bill Stewart, Joey Baron and Andy Watson, bass players Scott Colley and Steve LaSpina, and keyboardists Gil Goldstein and Larry Goldings. At times, saxophonists Chris Potter and Greg Osby played in Hall\u2019s groups as well. Some of these musicians are featured in Hall's video \"Master Sessions with Jim Hall\" from 1993. Hall appeared as a guest soloist in Michel Petrucciani's trio with Wayne Shorter in 1986 and performed at the Village Vanguard with Bill Frisell. In 1990, he hosted the JVC Jazz Festival New York, which also featured fellow guitarists Pat Metheny and John Scofield. After this, he played a number of duo concerts with Metheny. In 1994, Hall recorded a solo guitar album. Furthermore, in 1996, he returned to Europe to lead a quartet with saxophonist Joe Lovano.\nIn 1995, Hall was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Music from Berklee College of Music. In 1997, Hall received the New York Jazz Critics Award for Best Jazz Composer/Arranger. His pieces for string, brass, and vocal ensembles can be heard on his \"Textures\" and \"By Arrangement\" albums. His original composition, \"Quartet Plus Four\", a piece for jazz quartet and string quartet featuring the Zapolski string quartet, was debuted in Denmark, where he was awarded the Jazzpar Prize.\nHis last orchestral composition was a concerto for guitar and orchestra, commissioned by Towson University in Maryland for The First World Guitar Congress, which debuted in June 2004 with the Baltimore Symphony. He was awarded an NEA Jazz Masters Fellowship award in January 2004. Hall was one of the first artists to join the fan-funded label ArtistShare and released \"Magic Meeting\" in 2005. In 2006, on behalf of the French Minister of Culture, Kareen Rispal, Cultural Counselor of the Embassy of France, bestowed Hall with the honor of Chevalier dans l'ordre des Arts et des Lettres, saying, in part, \"We honor you, Jim Hall, for expanding the musical universe, for your innovations and contributions to musical expression. We salute your ongoing experimentation which has been known countless times to bring people around the world together.\" In November 2008, the double album \"Hemispheres\" was released through ArtistShare, featuring fellow guitarist and former student Bill Frisell with Scott Colley (bass), Joey Baron (drums) and produced by Brian Camelio.\nHall performed in a project titled \u201cThe Live Project\u201d, where he shared his music making process through ArtistShare as well as interviews with other musicians about his lasting influence. In 2010, Hall and Baron recorded a duo album entitled \"Conversations\". In 2012 at the age of 81, Hall had gigs at the Blue Note in New York City and at a number of jazz festivals in the US as well as in Europe.\nPersonal life.\nHall married Jane Hall (n\u00e9e Jane Herbert) on September 9, 1965. Jane, a psychoanalyst by profession, was also an occasional composer and singer. Hall recorded several of her compositions, including \"O Gato\", \"It's Nice to Be with You\", \"Where Would I Be?\", \"Goodbye, My Love\", \"The Answer Is Yes\", and \"Something Tells Me\".\nHall died in his sleep of heart failure in his Manhattan, New York apartment on December 10, 2013.\nMusical style.\n\"Hall's musical style develops with every new album and collaboration he engages in. His approach to music is unique \u2013 he views music as a way to break all barriers, not limited to music, as well as to share his discoveries with others.\" \"Music is a vehicle of peace for Hall and he therefore makes it a goal to reach out to others and communicate his music, teaching seminars all over the world. He is innovative and always interested in new modes of musical expression to further his ability.\"\nHall insisted a lot on the aural aspect of improvising music, stating that \"Players should force themselves to hear something and then play it, rather than just do whatever comes under their fingers. I try to make my playing as fresh as possible by not relying on set patterns.\"\nHall's tone has been described as mellow, warm, gentle, subtle, rich, and lightly amplified. Unlike other musicians, Hall's work is not necessarily recognized by a signature riff but rather his expressive capabilities. As an arranger, his solos are aptly constructed, taking into account harmonic, melodic and rhythmic elements. They are composed with both feeling and technique with clarity as the ultimate goal.\nHall was a part of several groups that had unusual instrumentation in the context of jazz. In his first high-profile professional group, led by Chico Hamilton, Hall played alongside cellist Fred Katz in a group that did not feature a piano. Hall's next group, the Jimmy Giuffre 3, was even more radical, having no drummer or piano, and in one incarnation, no bass player. Hall later played on two Andr\u00e9 Previn records with classical violinist Itzhak Perlman. Similar to Duke Ellington, the other artists on the record influence the composition and he creates music to showcase their talents as well. Furthermore, he is always open to what is new and what others are playing, including the guitar synthesizer.\nSilence is as much a part of Hall's music as is sound. Intimate settings, such as smaller clubs, showcase this strength. Hall \"carefully [chooses] a few notes instead, one after another, and placed them with the care of someone setting an elegant table.\" Although Hall is generally a leader, his excellent listening skills allow him to aid other musicians harmonically when required and staying silent when needed. Everyone is equal in Hall's groups, he explains, \"each one of these guys is a creative, growing musician, and I treat them that way.\"\nExemplifying how Hall's musical style and approach could clash with more pre-planned approaches is his collaboration with guitarist Pat Metheny (1999). The duo had met 30 years previously, when guitarist Attila Zoller brought 15-year-old Metheny to The Guitar, a club where Hall and bassist Carter had a standing position. Hall described the collaboration in a 2011 interview recorded for the Smithsonian Institution:\nReflecting Hall's broad musical tendencies, the album contains originals by Hall, Metheny, mutual friends Steve Swallow and Zoller, and two standards. Hall and Metheny's expertise and virtuosity allowed for much improvisation, usually spurred by mood, which led to different compositions,\"at times acoustic, soft, reverential, melodic, cacophonous, outlandish, humorous, and upbeat.\" Apart from Metheny, he influenced other then contemporary guitarists such as Bill Frisell, Mick Goodrick, John Scofield, and John Abercrombie.\nAwards and honors.\nFor many years, Hall was named \"Best Jazz Guitarist\" by both the Critics and the Readers in annual \"Downbeat\" magazine polls. His lengthy career has garnered him many honors from around the world, including:\nEquipment.\nHall always used an extremely simple approach regarding his instruments. In the very beginning of his tenure with Chico Hamilton, he used a Gibson Les Paul Custom. He soon switched to the hollow-body electric Gibson ES-175 guitar. This guitar, which Hall used for many years with its original P-90 pickup, was used with a Gibson GA50 amplifier. By the early 1970s, Hall was using a Guild-brand humbucker pickup in his guitar. In the mid-to-late 1970s, luthier Jimmy D'Aquisto supplied Hall with a pair of archtop guitars, one of which was all-acoustic, and the other of which had an electric pickup, and Hall began to use these instruments professionally. Also in the 1970s, Hall started using solid-state amplifiers, including those made by Polytone, Walter Woods, and Roland. Hall started working with luthier Roger Sadowsky in 1982, initially using Sadowsky for repair and maintenance work. Eventually the two collaborated on Sadowsky's Jim Hall Model guitar, a commercially available guitar based on Hall's original D'Aquisto.\nHall used flatwound strings gauges 11, 15, 20 (unwound), 30, 40, 50 (from high E to low E) and picks of varying thickness whose usage depended on what part he was playing. He would usually use medium picks for playing melodies, a thin pick if he would play a calypso, or \"some kind of zany rhythmic thing\" and heavy picks for ballads. Hall sometimes used a Digitech whammy pedal.\nWhen asked if he ever tried playing solid-body guitars again, he said: \"solid bodies are strange to me, I need to feel the body resonating\"."}
{"id": "756872", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756872", "title": "The protocols of the elders of zion", "text": ""}
{"id": "756873", "revid": "3356899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756873", "title": "Cunt gobbling", "text": ""}
{"id": "756877", "revid": "12845131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756877", "title": "Lee Hall (playwright)", "text": "Lee Hall (born 20 September 1966) is an English writer and lyricist. He is best known for writing the screenplay for the film \"Billy Elliot\" (2000) and the book and lyrics for its adaptation as a stage musical of the same name. In addition, he wrote the play \"The Pitmen Painters\" (2007), and the screenplays for the films \"War Horse\" and \"Rocketman\" (2019).\nEarly life.\nHall was born in 1966 in Newcastle upon Tyne, the son of a house painter and decorator and a housewife. He was educated at Benfield School in Walkergate. As a youth he went to Wallsend Young People's Theatre along with Deka Walmsley, Mark Scott \nand Trevor Fox. Walmsley later appeared in two of Hall\u2019s works, \"Billy Elliot\" and \"The Pitmen Painters\".\nHall went up to Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge, where he read English literature and was taught by poet Paul Muldoon. \nAfter leaving Cambridge, he worked as a youth theatre fundraiser in Newcastle and at the Gate Theatre in London. In 1997, his playwriting career was launched with the broadcast of his radio play, \"Spoonface Steinberg\", on BBC Radio 4.\nCareer.\nHall's most commercially successful work is \"Billy Elliot\", the story of a North Eastern English boy who, in the face of opposition from his family and community, aspires to be a ballet dancer. The inspiration for the screenplay was drawn, in part, from the A. J. Cronin novel \"The Stars Look Down\", which is also set in an English coal mining community during a strike, and similarly tells the story of a miner's son who goes against the grain. The character Billy was also partly inspired by the renowned baritone Sir Thomas Allen who came from a similar background, having been born in the North East's County Durham. Initially a 2000 film directed by Stephen Daldry, for which Hall wrote the screenplay, and for which he received an Academy Award nomination, \"Billy Elliot\" was later turned into a stage musical, with music by Elton John and lyrics by Hall. It enjoyed a long run in the West End and opened on Broadway in 2008. It won Hall the 2009 Tony Award for Best Book of a Musical.\nAlso successful was \"Spoonface Steinberg\", the tale of a young autistic Jewish girl who is dying of cancer. The last in a quartet of radio plays entitled \"God's Country\", the monologue aroused an unprecedented listener response when it was broadcast in 1997 on BBC Radio. It was subsequently voted one of the ten best radio dramas of all time by readers of the magazine \"Radio Times\". \"Spoonface Steinberg\" was adapted as a television play and into a one woman show starring 42-year-old actress Kathryn Hunter. The play opened in 1999 and later transferred to the West End.\nHall had more limited success with his comedy \"Cooking with Elvis\", the protagonist of which is an Elvis Presley impersonator who has been paralyzed in a car crash. It was originally a 1995 radio play but it became a stage play in 1999. Hall's fondness for moving from one medium to another can also be seen in his work \"I Luv You Jimmy Spud\", which began as a 1995 radio play and was later adapted by Hall into a stage play and a film, \"Gabriel and Me\", starring Billy Connolly and Iain Glen.\nHe has also translated plays by Carlo Goldoni, Bertolt Brecht and Herman Heijermans and co-written the screenplays for adaptations of Jane Austen's \"Pride &amp; Prejudice\" and Kenneth Grahame's \"The Wind in the Willows\".\nHall's play, \"The Pitmen Painters\", inspired by art critic William Feaver's book on the Ashington Group, premiered at the refurbished Live Theatre in Newcastle upon Tyne in 2007. It tells of a group of miners from Ashington, Northumberland, who decide to learn about art and begin to paint. The production later transferred to the National Theatre in London and opened on Broadway in September 2010. It won the 2008 Evening Standard Award for Best Play.\nIn 2011, controversy arose over a children's opera that Hall had written, called \"Beached\". The opera was commissioned by Opera North and was to have been performed by children from Bay Primary School in Bridlington, East Riding of Yorkshire. The story is about a gay retired painter, a single father who tries to spend a quiet day at the seaside with his son, but who is interrupted by children on a school trip, dogs, a landscape painter, an amateur dramatic society and others. After rehearsals had been going on for six months, the school threatened to pull the children out of the production if changes were not made to the libretto. Hall changed some words to accommodate their requests, but school officials, supported by Opera North, insisted on the removal of the words \"I'm queer\" and \"I prefer a lad to a lass,\" and other references to the character being gay. The school eventually agreed to let the children perform if Hall changed \"queer\" to \"gay.\"\nHall was the original writer on the screenplay for a film adaptation of Michael Morpurgo's \"War Horse\"; he shares credit on the finished film with Richard Curtis, who was brought in by Steven Spielberg. His most recent TV work is an adaptation of Nigel Slater's Autobiography \"Toast\", starring Helena Bonham Carter and Freddie Highmore and set in Wolverhampton, West Midlands. First broadcast on BBC One in December 2010, \"Toast\" received a gala at the 2011 Berlin Film Festival and was released in cinemas on 11 August 2011. He also worked on the screenplay for the yet-to-release Working Title film \"Hippie Hippie Shake\", based on Richard Neville's memoir \"Hippie Hippie Shake: The Dreams, the Trips, the Trials, the Love-ins, the Screw Ups: The Sixties\".\nHall's other projects include a biopic of Elton John, \"Rocketman\", released in May 2019, a stage musical adaptation of Pink Floyd's \"The Wall\", and a film adaptation of George Orwell's 1933 memoir \"Down and Out in Paris and London\".\nPersonal life.\nHall married film director Beeban Kidron (Baroness Kidron) in 2003. Kidron is a child rights advocate who has played a determinative role in establishing standards for online safety and privacy across the world."}
{"id": "756879", "revid": "12245379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756879", "title": "Dntel", "text": "James Scott Tamborello, (born 1975) also known by his stage name Dntel , is an American electronic music artist and DJ. Aside from his main solo project, Tamborello is also known as a member of the groups The Postal Service, Headset, Strictly Ballroom, and Figurine, where he is sometimes cited as James Figurine.\nPersonal life.\nTamborello's father was a jazz saxophone player, flautist, and a songwriter for many Santa Barbara, California-based bands. His mother, Joyce Menges was an actress who starred in the sitcom \"To Rome with Love\" starring John Forsythe, Kay Medford, and Melanie Fullerton, in 1969, and later in the Walt Disney Productions film \"Now You See Him Now You Don't\", starring Kurt Russell, in 1972.\nMusical career and Dntel.\nTamborello first began creating music in 1989, when he was in junior high school in Santa Barbara. His father bought him a drum machine, a sequencer, a keyboard and an eight track recorder, primarily for the possibility to create music on his own. Tamborello recorded an album under the name Antihouse in 1993, which was released the following year, then beginning work on the first Dntel EP. During these years, Tamborello attended Loyola Marymount University where he was a DJ and music director at KXLU. He engineered on several albums recorded at the station including \"KXLU LIVE: Volume 1,\" for which he also designed the album artwork. Tamborello was also the bass player for a band known as Strictly Ballroom. The band was often described as \"Enocore,\" as Brian Eno soundscapes were an important influence in their music. Strictly Ballroom recorded one album, \"Hide Here Forever\", which was released in 1997 on the Waxploitation Records label. They released a single in 1995 titled \"Dear XXX\" on the Chou Chou records label.\nA collection of the demos during the period of 1995 to 1997 was released as \"Early Works for Me If It Works for You\", in 1998, and work from the first Dntel EP was released as \"Something Always Goes Wrong\", in 2000, both on the Phthalo label. As a pioneer of contemporary glitch and electronica, Dntel gained a cult following. After writing a track for the \"Voices in My Lunchbox\" collaboration for the Plug Research label, he was asked to work with them. Tamborello released a 12-inch LP, \"Anywhere Anyone\", in 2000.\nTamborello released the debut Dntel full-length album, \"Life Is Full of Possibilities\", in 2001. The album featured several guest artists on vocals and instruments, including Ben Gibbard of Death Cab for Cutie, Mia Doi Todd, fellow Figurine member Meredith Figurine, Chris Gunst of Beachwood Sparks, Brian McMahan of Slint, The For Carnation, and Rachel Haden of that dog. The track \"(This Is) The Dream of Evan and Chan\" from the album was very well-received, which led to the song being released in 2002 as the only single from \"Life Is Full of Possibilities\". A remix of the song by Superpitcher was voted the 17th best dance track of the decade by a Resident Advisor poll in 2010.\nOn April 24, 2007, Tamborello released his third album \"Dumb Luck\" on Subpop Records to generally positive critical reception. This, coinciding with Death Cab For Cutie's release, \"Narrow Stairs\" moved any future plans of The Postal Service recording past the end of the decade. Tamborello released a surprise new album called \"Hate In My Heart\" on August 2, 2018, through Leaving Records.\nFigurine.\nSince 1994, Tamborello has also been a member of the electropop band Figurine. Consisting of Tamborello (as James Figurine), Meredith Figurine, and David Figurine, the trio were high school friends and created music based mostly on the theme of long-distance love, releasing their debut album, \"Transportation + Communication = Love\", in 1999. The group released their second album, \"The Heartfelt\", in 2001, and a remix album, \"Reconfigurine\", in 2002.\nTamborello released a solo album under the name James Figurine, \"Mistake Mistake Mistake Mistake\", in 2006, featuring a downtempo electronica style.\nThe Postal Service.\nThe success of the collaboration between Tamborello and Ben Gibbard on the song \"(This Is) The Dream of Evan and Chan\" from \"Life Is Full of Possibilities\", which features lyrics and vocals from Gibbard, led the two to form their own side-project The Postal Service in 2001. The duo released their debut album, \"Give Up\", in 2003 on Sub Pop Records, receiving very positive reviews from critics and eventual platinum certification from the Recording Industry of America. The album spawned the successful singles \"Such Great Heights\", \"The District Sleeps Alone Tonight\", and \"We Will Become Silhouettes\". Along with additional member Jenny Lewis, who performed vocals on the album, the group toured in support of \"Give Up\" despite their main projects also being active at the time.\nThe Postal Service became largely inactive after 2005, until 2013 when the group reunited for a tour to celebrate the tenth anniversary of \"Give Up\". However, on August 3, 2013, Ben Gibbard announced via Twitter that The Postal Service would permanently disband after the tour.\nOn December 9, 2009, Rolling Stone named the song \"Such Great Heights\" the 27th best song of the decade.\nIn December 2022, the group announced a 2023 tour co-headlining with Death Cab for Cutie to celebrate the twentieth anniversaries of \"Give Up\" and \"Transatlanticism\".\nOther projects.\nTamborello is also the host of a regular music show called \"Dying Songs\" heard on the internet radio station Dublab. In 2004, Tamborello was credited for programming on the song \"Take It Easy (Love Nothing)\" by Bright Eyes, which reached number two on the \"Billboard\" US Singles Chart.\nAs Headset he collaborated with Plug Research record label owner Allen Avanessian and a number of guest rappers on the 2004 album \"Space Settings\".\nEquipment.\nTamborello uses a large variety of electronic equipment to create his sound. He uses Logic Pro for programming, a Rode k2 microphone for vocals, and Dynaudio Air series speakers. His studio has a glockenspiel, Avalon Design VT-747sp compressor, MicroKorg, Elektron Machinedrum, Vostok Matrixsynth, Elektron Monomachine, Vermona Retroverb, Empirical Labs EL8X Distressor Compressor, MOTU MIDI Timepiece, Vermona DRM1 MKII (drum machine), Dave Smith Poly Evolver Rack, Minimoog Voyager, two Motu 828 MKII, Mackie 1604 mixer, Kurzweil K2000 synthesizer, Jomox Xbase 999, Moogerfooger MF-104Z Analog Delay, DigiTech IPS33 Smartshift Intelligent Pitch Shifter, Nord Modular G1, an Omnichord, accordions, jingle bells, Line 6 Delay, and an M-Audio Radium MIDI controller.\nDiscography.\nOther appearances.\n1. First edition released on 250 CD-Rs, later re-issued by Phthalo Records\n2. Contains material recorded between 1994 and 2000\n3. Reissue of \"Early Works for Me If It Works for You\", \"Something Always Goes Wrong\" plus additional material recorded between 1999 and 2003"}
{"id": "756881", "revid": "3891047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756881", "title": "Butt fucking", "text": ""}
{"id": "756882", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756882", "title": "Ph indicator", "text": ""}
{"id": "756883", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756883", "title": "Mitsubishi Fuso", "text": "Mitsubishi Fuso may refer to:"}
{"id": "756884", "revid": "8978739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756884", "title": "Half Moon", "text": "Half Moon, Halfmoon, half-moon, or Halve Maen may refer to:"}
{"id": "756888", "revid": "45940103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756888", "title": "Cock sucking", "text": ""}
{"id": "756892", "revid": "82313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756892", "title": "Buttfucking", "text": ""}
{"id": "756896", "revid": "45940103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756896", "title": "Cocksucking", "text": ""}
{"id": "756898", "revid": "82313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756898", "title": "Anal fucking", "text": ""}
{"id": "756902", "revid": "38184039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756902", "title": "Detroit Free Press", "text": "The Detroit Free Press (commonly referred to as the Freep) is one of two major daily newspapers in Detroit, Michigan, United States. It is owned by USA Today Co., which also owns the main historical rival \"The Detroit News\". Both newspapers operated under a joint operating agreement from 1989 until 2025. The Sunday edition is titled the \"Sunday Free Press.\" \nThe \"Free Press\" has received ten Pulitzer Prizes and four Emmy Awards. Its motto is \"On Guard for Years\". \nHistory.\n1831\u20131989: Competitive newspaper.\nThe newspaper was launched by John R. Williams and his uncle, Joseph Campau, and was first published as the \"Democratic Free Press and Michigan Intelligencer\" on May 5, 1831. It was renamed to \"Detroit Daily Free Press\" in 1835, becoming the region's first daily newspaper. Williams printed the first issues on a Washington press he purchased from the discontinued \"Oakland Chronicle\" of Pontiac. It was hauled from Pontiac in a wagon over rough roads to a building at Bates and Woodbridge streets in Detroit. The hand-operated press required two people and could produce 250 pages per hour. The first issues were in size, with five columns of type. Sheldon McKnight became the first publisher, with his uncle John Pitts Sheldon as the editor.\nIn the 1850s, the paper was developed into a leading Democratic Party-aligned publication under the ownership of Wilbur F. Storey. Storey left for the \"Chicago Times\" in 1861, taking much of the staff with him. In the 1870s ownership passed to William E. Quinby, who continued its Democratic leanings and established a London, England edition. In 1904, a group of investors (including prominent journalist Otto Carmichael of the \"Detroit Journal\") purchased the \"Free Press\" and sold it for a substantial sum of money five years later. \nIn 1940, the Knight Newspapers (later Knight Ridder) purchased the \"Free Press\". During the next 20 years, the \"Free Press\" competed in the southeastern Michigan market with \"The Detroit News\" and the \"Detroit Times\", until the \"Times\" was purchased and closed by \"The News\" on November 7, 1960. The \"Free Press\" was delivered and sold as a night paper, with home deliveries made after 7:00pm until around 1966. A morning \"Blue Streak Edition\" was available at news stands beginning around 1965, meaning the \"Free Press\" actually printed two editions per day. During that period \"The Detroit News\" was sold and delivered as an afternoon newspaper.\n1989\u20132014: Joint operating agreement.\nIn 1989, the paper entered into a one hundred-year joint operating agreement with its rival, combining business operations while maintaining separate editorial staffs. The combined company is called the Detroit Media Partnership. The two papers also began to publish joint Saturday and Sunday editions, though the editorial content of each remained separate. At the time, the \"Detroit Free Press\" was the tenth-highest circulation paper in the United States, and the combined \"Detroit News and Free Press\" was the country's fourth-largest Sunday paper.\nOn July 13, 1995, Newspaper Guild-represented employees of the \"Free Press\" and \"News\" and the pressmen, printers and Teamsters working for the \"Detroit Newspapers\" distribution arm went on strike. By October, about 40% of the editorial staffers had crossed the picket line, and many trickled back over the next months while others stayed out for the two and a half years of the strike. The strike was resolved in court three years later, and the unions remain active at the paper, representing a majority of the employees under their jurisdiction.\nIn 1998, the \"Free Press\" vacated its former headquarters in downtown Detroit and moved to offices into \"The Detroit News\" building and began to operate from its new offices in that building on June 26 of that year.\nOn August 3, 2005, Knight Ridder sold the \"Free Press\" to the Gannett Company, which had previously owned and operated \"The Detroit News\". Gannett, in turn, sold \"The News\" to MediaNews Group; Gannett continues to be the managing partner in the papers' joint operating agreement.\nThe \"Free Press\" resumed publication of its own Sunday edition, May 7, 2006, without any content from \"The News\", other than that \"The News\" would print its editorial page in the Sunday \"Free Press\".\nOn December 16, 2008, Detroit Media Partnership (DMP) announced a plan to limit weekday home delivery for both dailies to Thursday and Friday only. On other weekdays the paper sold at newsstands would be smaller, about 32 pages, and redesigned. This arrangement went into effect March 30, 2009.\nThe \"Free Press\" entered a news partnership with CBS owned-and-operated station WWJ-TV channel 62 in March 2009 to produce a morning news show called \"First Forecast Mornings\". Prior to the partnership, WWJ aired absolutely no local newscast at all.\nIn February 2014, the DMP announced its offices along with those of the \"Free Press\" and \"The Detroit News\" would occupy six floors in both the old and new sections of the former Federal Reserve building at 160 West Fort Street. The partnership expected to place signs on the exterior similar to those on the former offices. The move took place beginning in October 2014.\n2015\u2013present: Ownership changes.\nIn June 2015, Gannett split itself into two companies. The company's television broadcasters and digital publishers became part of a new company known as Tegna Inc. while its traditional print publishers became part of a new Gannett.\nIn 2018, the \"Detroit Free Press\" received two Salute to Excellence awards from the National Association of Black Journalists.\nIn November 2019, the newspaper announced it would cut four staff positions ahead of the GateHouse Media conglomerate completing its purchase of Gannett. The Gannett board finalized the purchase agreement on November 19, 2019.\nIn December 2024, the newspaper moved from West Fort Street after receiving notice from the building owner, Dan Gilbert's Bedrock Management Services, that it was planning to redevelop the structure. \"Free Press\" offices moved to a facility on Clifford Street in the Grand Circus Park Historic District. \"The Detroit News\" moved its offices to a historic building at 6001 Cass Avenue.\nIn January 2025, Gannett announced it would close the paper's printing facility in Sterling Heights, Michigan with 115 jobs lost. The printing of 32 newspapers would be transferred to other plants. About six months later, Gannett announced it would not renew the joint operating agreement with \"The Detroit News\" which was set to expire at the end of the year. The joint operating agreement ended on December 28, 2025."}
{"id": "756905", "revid": "393333312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756905", "title": "Cuntlicking", "text": ""}
