{"id": "708565", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708565", "title": "Greensborough railway station", "text": "Greensborough station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Hurstbridge line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Greensborough, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Greensborough station is a ground level premium station, featuring an island platform. It opened on 5 June 1902, with the current station provided in April 2023.\nBecause of the curvature of the line, north-bound (Hurstbridge) services head south-east upon departing the station and, likewise, south-bound (Flinders Street) services head north-west. A number of peak-hour services to and from Flinders Street terminate at Greensborough.\nHistory.\nGreensborough station was a single-track, single platform station built in 1902, for service to (at the time) the outer north eastern suburb of Greensborough. At the time of construction, it was serviced by steam engines inbound and outbound from the Melbourne CBD, until the completion of the electrification from Heidelberg to Eltham in 1923.\nThe original platform was located on the south-western side of the station, where the current car-parking is located. The original track ran through the current island platform.\nDue to the restrictions of only having one track out to Hurstbridge and only one through track, the trains were timetabled to arrive 3\u20134 minutes apart. The Hurstbridge service would collect passengers from the platform, then shunt out to a junction at the up end of the station, pull into a side track and wait 1\u20132 minutes for the Flinders Street service to arrive then depart, then continuing to Hurstbridge. Due to a much higher passenger count going to the city at the time, the Flinders Street service was given priority over the low passenger count toward Hurstbridge.\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s, the station was upgraded to two tracks, and a single offset island platform was built. The station had a platform on the left and right, one for each direction. In 1969, the rebuilt station was provided and, on 3 April 1970, it officially opened. In 1977, a goods yard that existed at the station was closed to traffic. In 1979, the railway line between Greensborough and Macleod was duplicated.\nOn 21 June 1996, Greensborough was upgraded to a premium station.\nOn 15 May 2019, the Victorian State Government announced a plan to duplicate the line between Greensborough and Eltham, which included an upgrading of the station. The upgrade involved the building of an overpass and concourse, rebuilt station platforms and better accessibility in and around the station precinct. On 9 February 2021, final designs of the new station were released, and in mid-2021, early works on the project commenced. In 2022, the old station closed and was demolished to allow for major construction on the project, and the rebuilt station officially opened on 30 April 2023.\nUntil 2023, the timetabling for services to and from the station remained practically the same, due to the single-track railway between Greensborough and Hurstbridge, with only crossing loops located at Eltham and Diamond Creek. An Eltham/Hurstbridge service arrived approximately one minute before the Flinders Street service arrived, with both services departing at same time, allowing the outbound service clear passage to Eltham.\nPlatforms and services.\nGreensborough has one island platform with two faces. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Hurstbridge line services. During peak hours, many trains terminate at Greensborough, and the track layout allows trains from either direction to run through either platform if required, meaning other services can still run through if a terminating train is occupying one of the platforms. However, the normal practice is that trains heading towards Flinders Street use platform 1, and trains heading towards Hurstbridge use platform 2.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates five bus routes via Greensborough station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nKinetic Melbourne operates three routes via Greensborough station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nPanorama Coaches operates one route to and from Greensborough station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708566", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708566", "title": "Munda (Hinduism)", "text": ""}
{"id": "708568", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708568", "title": "Montmorency railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Montmorency station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Hurstbridge line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Montmorency, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Montmorency station is a ground level premium station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 5 September 1923, with the current station provided in April 2023.\nHistory.\nMontmorency station opened twenty-one years after the railway line from Heidelberg was extended to Hurstbridge. Like the suburb itself, the station was named after a local farm, the \"Montmorency Estate\", itself named after the French town Montmorency, Val-d'Oise.\nIn the lead-up to the 2018 state election, the opposition Liberal Party promised A$300m to duplicate the line between Greensborough and Eltham, and provide Montmorency with a second platform.\nOn 15 May 2019, the Level Crossing Removal Project announced that planning for the duplication of 3\u00a0km of track between Greensborough and Eltham was underway. Final designs of the new station were released on 9 February 2021, with early work of the project commencing in late 2021, with major construction started in 2022. The station was rebuilt approximately west of the current station, and included a new platform. On 30 April 2023, the rebuilt station opened.\nPlatforms, facilities and services.\nMontmorency has two side platforms. It is located between Were Street and Mayona Road, with station access from both. There are sheltered waiting areas on both platforms, two myki top up machines, six myki touch on/off stands and a \"pod\" for Protective Services Officers.\nThe station is served by Hurstbridge line trains."}
{"id": "708569", "revid": "15698563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708569", "title": "Okanogan Country", "text": ""}
{"id": "708570", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708570", "title": "Eltham railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Eltham station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Hurstbridge line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Eltham, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Eltham station is a ground level premium station, featuring an island platform. It opened on 5 June 1902, with the current platforms provided in 1960 and the upgrades in 2013.\nEltham is the terminus for half of all services on the line. Five stabling sidings are located to the west of Platform 2, with the site previously having been a goods yard. The last timber trestle bridge on the Melbourne suburban network is located to the south of the station.\nHistory.\nEltham station opened on 5 June 1902, when the railway line from Heidelberg was extended. It remained a terminus until June 1912, when the line was extended to Hurstbridge. Like the suburb itself, the station is named after the district of Eltham in Kent, England.\nIn 1960, Platform 1 was converted from a south-facing bay platform to a through platform, with a connection to the main line provided at the down end of the station. Also in that year, the current station building was provided. In 1969, flashing light signals were provided at the Diamond Street level crossing, located nearby in the down direction from the station.\nIn 1977, a ramped goods platform was abolished, with a goods shed believed to be demolished around the same time. By 1984, goods traffic to and from the station ceased. In 1987, boom barriers were provided at the Diamond Street level crossing.\nOn 4 July 1996, Eltham was upgraded to a premium station. A minor refurbishment of the station also occurred during this time.\nOn 25 December 2011, following a large storm and subsequent flooding, parts of the line at the down end of the level crossing were washed away. The flooding also eroded a culvert, exposing a small timber bridge.\nEltham was one of the last stations in Melbourne to be controlled by mechanical safeworking, including the use of semaphore signals. It was also a break between two different types of safeworking: Greensborough to Eltham was controlled by miniature electric staff, whilst Eltham to Hurstbridge was controlled by train staff and ticket. Both safeworking systems were converted to Automatic Track Control (ATC) in early 2013. A new amenities building for train drivers was constructed around that time, as well as an upgrade to the stabling sidings.\nOn 15 May 2019, the Level Crossing Removal Project announced that planning for the duplication of 3\u00a0km of track between Eltham and Greensborough was underway, with early works began in 2021, with major construction started in 2022. The Eltham Trestle Bridge would not be affected by the project. The project was completed in 2023.\nPlatforms and services.\nEltham has one island platform with two faces. Trains in either direction can depart from either platform, although Hurstbridge bound services almost always depart from Platform 1, and Flinders Street bound services usually depart from Platform 2.\nIt is served by Hurstbridge line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates six routes via Eltham station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nKinetic Melbourne operates one SmartBus route via Eltham station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708571", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708571", "title": "Diamond Creek railway station", "text": "Diamond Creek station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Hurstbridge line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Diamond Creek, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Diamond Creek station is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 25 June 1912, with the current station provided in 2023.\nHistory.\nDiamond Creek station opened on 25 June 1912, when the railway line from Eltham was extended to Hurstbridge. Like the suburb itself, the station was named after the nearby Diamond Creek, which was given that name as it was believed that the water at the bottom of the creek bed was bright, due to the crystalline minerals of various shapes.\nIn 1957, the station was closed to goods traffic and, in 1959, flashing light signals were provided at the Hurstbridge Road level crossing, located nearby in the up direction of the station.\nIn 1979, the station building on Platform 1 was damaged by fire. In 1988, boom barriers were provided at the Hurstbridge Road level crossing.\nOn 22 March 1991, just after 19:00, a Hurstbridge-bound train collided with a stationary Flinders Street-bound train at the station, resulting in three people injured and three carriages derailing. Parts of the platform were also damaged in the collision.\nA passing loop had been provided at the station for many years, believed to have been originally used as a goods siding. On 7 June 1994, a second platform was constructed on the passing loop. Before that, one train had to set back after using the platform, then enter the loop to allow another train to pass. Both platforms are bi-directional, however, with the introduction of electronic signalling in 2008, Platform 2 could only be used by Hurstbridge-bound trains. In 2013, Platform 2 received a signal pointing city-bound, allowing both platforms to become bi-directional again.\nDiamond Creek was one of the last stations in Melbourne controlled by the staff and ticket safeworking system, including the use of semaphore signals. The station was a break between two sections of the safeworking system: Eltham to Diamond Creek, and Diamond Creek to Hurstbridge. As a result, Metro Trains' staff were required to operate the safeworking system, including operating the points for the crossing loop. In 2008, the signals and the points were upgraded to be controlled electronically and, in early 2013, the safe working system was converted to Automatic &amp; Track Control (ATC).\nOn 15 May 2019, the Level Crossing Removal Project announced that planning for the duplication of of track between Diamond Creek and Wattle Glen was underway, with construction commencing in early 2022. As part of the duplication works, Platform 2 also received an upgrade. Works were completed in 2023.\nOn 30 April 2023, the rebuilt Platform 2 opened and was rebuilt to meet modern safety and accessibility standards. The rebuilt Platform 2 included installation of new platform shelters, resurfacing the platform from white concrete to asphalt, new platform and entrance signages, a new access ramp with a new upgraded pedestrian crossing gates which were upgraded from occupational pedestrian crossing to swing gates pedestrian crossings. The pedestrian crossing is located southbound of the station. Platform 1 largely stayed the same, the only thing changed was the new platform signages installed.\nPrior to the duplication north of the station in 2023, both platforms were bi-directional. After the duplication was completed, citybound trains must depart from the upgraded platform 2 (which was built in 1994) while Hurstbridge-bound trains must depart from the larger original platform 1. This platform numbering arrangement is uncommon across stations with two platforms with citybound trains typically using platform 1 and outbound typically using platform 2.\nPlatforms and services.\nDiamond Creek has two side platforms. It is served by Hurstbridge line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates three route to and from Diamond Creek station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria: "}
{"id": "708572", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708572", "title": "Wattle Glen railway station", "text": "Wattle Glen station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Hurstbridge line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Wattle Glen, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Wattle Glen station is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring one side platform. It opened on 25 June 1912.\nInitially opened as Balee, it was changed to Wattleglen (one word) on 14 August 1922. However, currently the station is signed and commonly known as Wattle Glen (two words).\nHistory.\nWattle Glen station opened on 25 June 1912, when the railway line from Eltham was extended to Hurstbridge. Like the suburb itself, the station is named after the wattle trees that are in abundance throughout the area.\nIn 1968, flashing light signals were provided at the Wilson Road level crossing, located nearby in the down direction of the station. In 1979, the former station building was destroyed by fire. In 1987, boom barriers were provided at the Wilson Road level crossing.\nIn late 2007, an upgrade to the station and its car park took place, and included installing fencing and sealing the car park.\nIn 2018, it was announced that the Level Crossing Removal Project would undergo a second upgrade on the Hurstbridge line, which involved duplicating the track between Wattle Glen and Diamond Creek. However, no upgrades were proposed for the station itself or the nearby Wilson Road level crossing, with the duplication ending south of the level crossing. The duplication was completed in 2023.\nDuring the 2018/2019 financial year, Wattle Glen was the least-patronised station on Melbourne's metropolitan network, with approximately 48,000 passenger movements annually.\nIn 2020, it was announced that the station car park will be upgraded with 50 new spots, improved CCTV and lighting, as well as more bicycle parking facilities.\nAlthough the railway station signage and the operator's public timetables render the name of the station as two words, some internal sources, such as VicNames, and the internal network map, renders the official spelling of the station as Wattleglen, one word. However, the operator's internal signalling diagram uses the two word form. It is unclear why the Post Office and suburb were made two words when the Post Office was renamed from Diamond Creek Upper on 1 November 1922, particularly after the station had been renamed (as one word) two and a half months earlier.\nPlatforms and services.\nWattle Glen has one platform. It is served by Hurstbridge line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates one route via Wattle Glen station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708574", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708574", "title": "Hurstbridge railway station", "text": "Hurstbridge station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne and the terminus of the Hurstbridge line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Hurstbridge, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Hurstbridge station is a ground level host station, featuring a single platform. It opened on 25 June 1912.\nInitially opened as Hurst's Bridge, the station was given its current name of Hurstbridge on 9 December 1912.\nHistory.\nHurstbridge station opened on 25 June 1912, when the railway line was extended from Eltham. Like the suburb itself, the station was named after a local settler, Henry Hurst, who built a log bridge across the Diamond Creek to access a property named \"Allwood\".\nIn 1957, a goods train service between Eltham and Hurstbridge was withdrawn. In 1962, a siding that operated to a cool store was abolished.\nAccidents and incidents.\nOn 16 February 1973, Tait trailer carriage 202T was destroyed by a fire while stabled in No. 1 road.\nOn 9 April 1983, Comeng motor carriage 315M and Tait motor carriage 472M were destroyed by a fire whilst at the station. Both cars were later scrapped.\nShortly before 2:00\u00a0a.m. on 11 November 2015, X'Trapolis train set 927M-1664T-928M derailed, following an unauthorised movement from the yard, resulting in collisions with various items of infrastructure and another train. On 1 June 2016, a former Metro Trains' worker pleaded guilty to causing the incident, along with lighting two fires at Newport Workshops in 2015, which damaged or destroyed heritage train carriages, including a historical Swing Door EMU.\nPlatforms and services.\nHurstbridge has one platform. It is served by Hurstbridge line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates one bus route to and from Hurstbridge station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708575", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708575", "title": "Rushall railway station", "text": "Rushall station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Fitzroy North, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. It opened on 1 January 1927.\nHistory.\nNamed after a nearby street, itself possibly named after a housing development in 1869, Rushall was also a station on the former Inner Circle line, which operated between Clifton Hill and Royal Park until July 1948.\nRushall is located next to Merri Creek, and is connected to Westgarth by a narrow, 80-metre-long footbridge for pedestrians and cyclists, crossing the Merri Creek as part of the Merri Creek Trail.\nIncidents.\nOn 6 February 2016, whilst operating a Flinders Street service, and negotiating the tightest curve on the metropolitan railway system, a trailer carriage of an X'Trapolis train derailed 100m north of the station, resulting in one injury. The line reopened the next day.\nOn 10 February 2016, another derailment occurred near Rushall, involving track maintenance machines, resulting in buses replacing trains between Clifton Hill and Bell for much of 11 February. The line partially reopened for evening peak later that day.\nIn music.\nMelbourne indie band Underground Lovers wrote a song named \"Rushall Station\", about the quietness of the site, which then became the title track for an album. The station is also mentioned in Marcel Borrack's song \"Regent to Rushall\".\nIn October 2016, Melbourne electronic music producer Arcadic released a single named after the station, titled \"Rushall\". The artwork depicted Merri Creek, taken from the window of a train departing Rushall station.\nPlatforms and services.\nRushall has two side platforms and is served by Mernda line trains.\nTransport links.\nKinetic Melbourne operates two bus routes via Rushall station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708576", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708576", "title": "Merri railway station", "text": "Merri station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Northcote, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Merri station is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 8 October 1889, with the current station provided in 1910.\nInitially opened as Northcote, the station was given its current name of Merri on 10 December 1906.\nHistory.\nMerri station opened on 8 October 1889, when the Inner Circle line was extended from North Fitzroy to Reservoir. The original conception of the station was to act as a major junction in a planned \"\"North Suburban Railway System\". \"The Argus\" reported in 1887 that; \"The Station at Union-street, as shown on our plan, must necessarily be the most important in the Northern System, as lines branch from this point to Preston and Whittlesea on the north ; Heidelberg, Kew, &amp;.c., on the east; Carlton, Royal-park, North Melbourne, and Spencer-street on the south-west; Fitzroy, East Melbourne, and Flinders-street on the south; and if the alternative route is adopted, Clifton-hill, Collingwood, Richmond, and Flinders street on the south east.\", while land sale plans advertised the upcoming construction of the \"Grand Central Junction Station\"\".\nIn 1910, the station building was rebuilt to accommodate an increased population in the area.\nThe nearby level crossing at Charles Street had hand-operated gates until 1924, when they were replaced with interlocked gates, operated from the nearby signal box, following several serious traffic accidents. In 1986, these gates were replaced with boom barriers. In 1987, the signal box was abolished.\nIn 1973, both platforms were extended at the down end of the station.\nDuring October 1987, the double line block system between Merri \u2013 Northcote was abolished, and replaced with three position signalling, with all two position signals between Merri \u2013 Thornbury also abolished.\nAnnounced as part of a $21.9 million package in the 2022/23 Victorian State Budget, Merri, alongside other stations, will receive accessibility upgrades, the installation of CCTV, and platform shelters. The development process will begin in late 2022 or early 2023, with a timeline for the upgrades to be released once construction has begun.\nPlatforms and services.\nMerri has two side platforms. It is served by Mernda line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates one bus route via Merri station:\nYarra Trams operates two routes via Merri station:"}
{"id": "708577", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708577", "title": "Northcote railway station", "text": "Northcote station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Northcote, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Northcote station is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 8 October 1889.\nInitially opened as Middle Northcote, the station was given its current name of Northcote on 10 December 1906.\nHistory.\nNorthcote station opened on 8 October 1889, when the Inner Circle line was extended from North Fitzroy to Reservoir. Like the suburb itself, the station is believed to be named after Stafford Henry Northcote, who was British Chancellor of the Exchequer between 1874 and 1880, Foreign Secretary between 1885 and 1886, and a co-author of the Northcote\u2013Trevelyan Report in 1853.\nIn 1973, both platforms were extended at the down end of the station.\nIn 1986, the former goods sidings, located at the down end of the station, were abolished. A crossover, also located at the down end, was spiked out of use around that time, and was removed at a later date.\nDuring October 1987, the double line block system between Northcote \u2013 Merri and Northcote \u2013 Thornbury was abolished, and replaced with three position signalling. Also occurring in that year, boom barriers replaced interlocked gates at the Arthurton Road level crossing, located at the down end of the station. The signal box for the level crossing was also abolished during that time.\nAs part of the 2010/2011 State Budget, $83.7 million was allocated to upgrade Northcote to a premium station, along with nineteen others. However, in March 2011, this was scrapped by the Baillieu Government.\nPlatforms and services.\nNorthcote has two side platforms. It is served by Mernda line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates one bus route via Northcote station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nYarra Trams operates two routes via Northcote station:"}
{"id": "708578", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708578", "title": "Croxton railway station", "text": "Croxton station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern Melbourne suburb of Northcote in Victoria, Australia. Croxton is a ground-level unstaffed station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 8 October 1889, with the current station provided in the 1973/74 fiscal year.\nHistory.\nCroxton station opened on 8 October 1889, when the Inner Circle line was extended from North Fitzroy to Reservoir, Croxton station was named after the nearby Croxton Park Racecourse and Hotel, which in turn was named after Croxton Racecourse in Leicestershire, England.\nIn 1922, the station was closed to goods traffic.\nOn 3 July 1972, the former station building on Platform 1 was damaged by fire, with the waiting room and toilets destroyed. During the 1973/1974 financial year, the present station buildings were provided. Platform extensions also occurred during this time.\nPlatforms and services.\nCroxton has two side platforms. It is served by Mernda line trains.\nTransport links.\nYarra Trams operates two routes via Croxton station:"}
{"id": "708581", "revid": "27382819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708581", "title": "Foil bearing", "text": "A foil bearing, also known as a foil-air bearing, is a type of air bearing. A shaft is supported by a compliant, spring-loaded journal lining made of foil. Once the shaft is spinning fast enough, the working fluid (usually air) pushes the foil away from the shaft so that no contact occurs. The shaft and foil are separated by the air's high pressure, which is generated by the rotation that pulls gas into the bearing via viscosity effects. The high speed of the shaft with respect to the foil is required to initiate the air gap, and once this has been achieved, no wear occurs. Unlike aerostatic or hydrostatic bearings, foil bearings require no external pressurisation system for the working fluid, so the hydrodynamic bearing is self-starting.\nDevelopment.\nFoil bearings were first developed in the late 1950s by AiResearch Mfg. Co. of the Garrett Corporation using independent R&amp;D funds to serve military and space applications. They were first tested for commercial use in United Airlines Boeing 727 and Boeing 737 cooling turbines in the early and mid-1960s. Garrett AiResearch air cycle machine foil bearings were first installed as original equipment in 1969 in the DC-10's environmental control systems. Garrett AiResearch foil bearings were installed on all US military aircraft to replace existing oil-lubricated rolling-contact bearings. The ability to operate at cryogenic gas temperatures and at very high temperatures gave foil bearings many other potential applications.\nCurrent-generation foil bearings with advanced coatings have greatly exceeded the limitations of earlier designs. Antiwear coatings exist that allow over 100,000 start/stop cycles for typical applications.\nApplications.\nTurbomachinery is the most common application because foil bearings operate at high speed. \nCommercial applications in production include microturbines, fuel cell blowers, Chiller compressors and air cycle machines. The largest known foil bearing in a commercial application is 130\u00a0mm journals with 230\u00a0mm thrust bearings in a 450 RT refrigerant compressor. The main advantage of foil bearings is the elimination of the oil systems required by traditional bearing designs. Other advantages are:\nAreas of current research are:\nThe main disadvantages are:"}
{"id": "708582", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708582", "title": "Thornbury railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Thornbury station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Thornbury, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Thornbury station is a ground-level unstaffed station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 8 October 1889.\nHistory.\nThornbury station opened on 8 October 1889, when the Inner Circle line was extended from North Fitzroy to Reservoir, Thornbury station, like the suburb itself, is named after the \"Thornbury Park Estate\", named after a farm owned by settler Job Smith. Smith named the farm after his birthplace in England.\nIn 1973, both platforms were extended at the down end of the station.\nDuring October 1987, the double line block system between Thornbury and Northcote was abolished, and replaced with three-position signalling, with all two position signals between Thornbury and Merri also abolished. A number of signal posts were also abolished during this time.\nIn early 1988, boom barriers replaced interlocked gates at the Hutton Street level crossing, located at the up end of the station.\nAnnounced as part of a $21.9 million package in the 2022/23 Victorian State Budget, Thornbury, alongside other stations, will receive accessibility upgrades, the installation of CCTV, and platform shelters.\nPlatforms and services.\nThornbury has two side platforms. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Mernda line services.\nTransport links.\nYarra Trams operates two routes via Thornbury station:"}
{"id": "708585", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708585", "title": "Bell railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Bell station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Preston in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Bell station opened on 8 October 1889, with the former ground level station closed and demolished in May 2022 and the current elevated station provided in September 2022 by the Level Crossing Removal Project. Bell station initially opened as \"Preston-Bell Street\" upon its opening in 1889, then it was given its current name of \"Bell\" on 1 August 1905.\nBell is an elevated premium station, consisting of two side platforms connected by staircases, lifts and a ground level concourse. Bell station fully complies with the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 and is accessible as there is a lift connecting to the ground level concourse and Bell station platforms on either side.\nBell station is owned by VicTrack, a state government agency, and operated by Metro Trains Melbourne. The station is currently served by the Mernda line, part of the Melbourne railway network. It is also served by four bus routes including Dysons bus routes 513, 514, 552 and 553. Bell station is approximately or around a 22 minute train ride to Flinders Street.\nDescription.\nBell railway station is located in the north-eastern suburb of Preston in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. It is owned by VicTrack, a state government agency, and operated by Metro Trains Melbourne. The adjacent stations are Thornbury station up towards Flinders Street and Preston station down towards Mernda. A train ride to Flinders Street takes around 22 minutes, covering .\nBell station is fitted with shelters over the seating areas for protection against Melbourne's weather, as well as secure bike parking spots. In total, there are 77 car and 28 protected bike parking at Bell station. Moreover, the station features a ground level concourse, accessible by stairs and lifts up to the elevated platforms.\nThere is one main station building, opened in 2022, and made out of local roofscapes abstracted into three-dimensional patterns: mostly pink and purple glazing windows, post-war rooftops and references to the local art and culture scene. It contains a waiting room, a customer service, PSO office and a ground level concourse connected to the platforms.\nBell station is flanked on its eastern side by an amphitheatre.\nHistory.\nPre level crossing removal.\nBell station was opened on 8 October 1889 and named after the nearby Bell Street, a major road located on the north side of Bell. The line passing through Bell was built to extend the Inner Circle line from North Fitzroy station to a new terminus at Reservoir station.\nThe original Bell station was situated next to the former Bell Street level crossing, which was upgraded with manually operated boom barriers in 1969, replacing the interlocking gates. A goods yard originally served Bell, however, it was removed in 1986, leaving only a siding area. On 17 April 1988, the double-line block signalling system between Bell and Reservoir was decommissioned and was replaced with automatic three position signalling. Additionally, in the same month, Bell was enhanced with pedestrian gates at the former Bell Street level crossing, in combination with the manually operated road boom barriers.\nOn 25 August 2008, Bell was upgraded to a premium station, featuring the addition of customer service facilities and the conversion of the former ground-level station building into a waiting room.\nLevel Crossing Removal Project.\nIn 2014, the first Andrews government announced a $2.4 billion program to remove 50 level crossings in Melbourne, including the Bell Street level crossing. The program was projected for completion by 2022. In January 2016, it was incorporated into the Level Crossing Removal Project program, but at the time, it had not been decided how the grade separation would be realised in regards to the Bell Street level crossing.\nOn 30 November 2018, the second Andrews government announced that the Level Crossing Removal Project would remove one level crossing at Oakover Road, along with 24 other level crossings across Melbourne as part of a $6.6 billion program. Instead, the level crossing was substituted with the elevated railway option.\nThe Bell railway station reconstruction began in February 2021 with piling works, installation of fencing around the construction site, and development of foundation for the temporary overhead wiring that would be used in the future elevated railway. \nDuring the major construction period in 2021 and 2022, the Mernda line was closed a few times for maximum of 12 days to facilitate further piling and excavation works. The Mernda line was closed between 5 May to 12 May 2021, when the original Bell station building was demolished to make way for the new elevated railway, followed by the installation of an operational temporary station. Subsequently, the 114 piers were dug and the first part of the U-through elevated railway section was constructed, made up of two L-shaped beams. Between 17 May to 30 May 2022, the Mernda line was shut down for 12 days to remove the Oakover Road and Bell Street level crossings, get the first part of the elevated railway ready for trains to run on and demolish the old station platforms.\nOn 30 May 2022, the first part of the two kilometre elevated railway was opened, until 26 August 2022 only a single track was temporarily available because the Mernda line couldn't be closed for no longer than 12 days due to the requirement for trains to regularly access the Epping maintenance yard facility.\nOn 5 September 2022 Bell station was opened to the public. The rebuilt Bell was moved 40 metres from the former ground level station site to increase the amount of community open space, forecourt and landscaping area. The new building was built with additional exits opened on the north side. Moreover, it got upgraded with water and energy efficient features such as solar panels, rainwater-reuse systems, LED lighting and environmentally sustainable materials to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2023, the open space project was constructed near Oakover Road, located west and 280 metres from Bell station. It was named \"Oakover Green\" and equipped with a playground, landscaped gardens, seating areas and a yarning circle developed by Wurundjeri artists. In October 2024, Bell was recognised as one of the top six most beautiful stations in the world by Prix Versailles. It was the only Australian railway station recognised in that category.\nServices.\nBell has two side platforms. Bell station is currently served by the Mernda line, part of the metropolitan railway network. The Mernda line runs from Mernda station, north-east of Melbourne, joining with the Hurstbridge line at Clifton Hill station before travelling through Flinders Street station and back through the City Loop in a clockwise direction.\nTransport links.\nBell station has four bus route connections operated by Dysons and no tram connections. The route 513 and route 514 bus stop at the nearby Bell Street, north-west of Bell station: the route 513 bus operates from Eltham station to Glenroy station via Lower Plenty, while the route 514 bus operates from Eltham station to Glenroy station via Greensborough. The route 552 and 553 bus stop at the nearby High Street, east of Bell station: the route 552 operates from North East Reservoir to Northcote Plaza, while the route 553 bus operates from Preston to West Preston.\nBus connections:"}
{"id": "708586", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708586", "title": "Preston railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Preston station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Preston in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. \nThe station opened on 8 October 1889, with the former ground level station closed and demolished in May 2022 and the current elevated station provided in September 2022 by the Level Crossing Removal Project. The station was renamed two times, which it initially opened as Preston-Murray Road upon its opening in 1889. It was renamed to Murray on 1 August 1905, then was given its current name of \"Preston\" on 1 December 1909.\nPreston is an elevated premium station, consisting of a single island platform with two faces connected by a staircase, lifts and a ground level concourse. The station fully complies with the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 and is accessible as there is a lift connecting to the ground level concourse and the station platforms. Preston station's design reflects the influence of Preston Market. The colour palette for the station was inspired by Preston Market, it features an array of vivid colours with black vertical folds, resembling a barcode used by market vendors.\nThe station is served by four bus routes, it includes Dysons bus routes 552 and 553 and Ventura bus routes 903 and 527.\nDescription.\nPreston railway station is located in the north-eastern suburb of Preston in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The station is owned by VicTrack, a state government agency and the station is operated by Metro Trains Melbourne. The adjacent stations are Bell station up towards Flinders Street and Regent station down towards Mernda.\nThe island platform is approximately long. The station features a ground level concourse, accessible from the elevated station platform via a lift and stairs. There is one main station building, opened in 2022, which contains a waiting room, a customer service, PSO office and a ground level concourse inside the main station building.\nThe station incorporates sustainable features such as solar panels, rainwater reuse, LED lighting and environmentally sustainable materials to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Bruce Street area features a playground, BBQ facilities, seating areas and all-ages fitness facilities. There are 254 car, 42 secure bike and 21 secure bike cage parking at the station. Per the Victorian Government, the station design complies with the requirements of the Disability Discrimination Act 1992.\nHistory.\nOriginal ground level station (1888\u20132022).\nPreston station opened on 8 October 1889, when the Inner Circle line was extended from North Fitzroy to Reservoir. Preston station, like the suburb itself, was named after Preston in Sussex, England. The name was chosen by Edward Wood, who was originally from Sussex and, in 1850, opened a general store at the corner of the current day intersection of High and Wood Streets.\nIn 1967, boom barriers replaced hand gates at the former Cramer Street and Murray Road level crossings, which were located in the up and down directions respectively. In 1973, the former ground level station buildings were provided, replacing the original 1889 structures. In 1998, Preston was upgraded to a premium station.\nLevel Crossing Removal Project.\nOn 30 November 2018, the Andrews government announced that the Level Crossing Removal Project would remove the Oakover Road, Cramer Street and Murray Road level crossings, along with 23 other level crossings in Melbourne as part of a $6.6 billion program, Bell Street was already listed to be removed in 2014. At the same time, the elevated railway option was chosen.\nDuring construction, the Mernda line was never closed for more than two weeks at a time in 2021 and 2022 to facilitate further piling and excavation works. Between 5 May to 12 May 2021, the original Preston station building was demolished to make way for the new elevated railway bridge, with the Mernda line was closed during that time to install temporary equipment at the station. Once the temporary station opened, major excavation works were able to begin. Construction of the first part of the U-through bridge section made up of two L-shaped beams for the elevated railway bridge installed and digging for the 114 piers also started to occur during this time.\nBetween 17 May to 30 May 2022, the Mernda line was shut down for 12 days to remove the Oakover Road, Bell Street, Cramer Street and Murray Road level crossings in order to get the first part of the elevated railway bridge ready and demolish the old ground level station platforms. On 30 May 2022, the first part of the 2 kilometre bridge opened with a temporary single track until 26 August 2022.\nDuring construction, the Mernda Line could not be closed for longer than 12 days due to the requirement of trains to regularly access the Epping maintenance yard facility.\nOn 5 September 2022, the rebuilt station opened to the public. The elevated station opened in a basic state, with lifts, paving and additional exits opened on the north side of the station. In 2023, the open spaces were completed. The Preston station area features an improved cycling and walking paths which opened in late 2022, expansive open space, newer and safer connections to popular local destinations and the station facades' bright colour which features a barcode reflecting the vivid colours of produce found at Preston Market.\nPlatforms and services.\nPreston has a single island platform with two faces. The station is currently served by the Mernda line, part of the metropolitan railway network. The Mernda line runs from Mernda station, north-east of Melbourne, joining with the Hurstbridge line at Clifton Hill station before travelling through Flinders Street station and back through the City Loop.\nTransport links.\nPreston station has four bus route connections and no tram connections. The route 552 and 553 bus are operated by Dysons, while the route 527 bus is operated by Ventura Bus Lines and the SmartBus route 903 operated by Kinetic Melbourne. Bus routes 552 and 553 operates from the nearby High Street, east of Preston station. The route 552 operates from North East Reservoir to Northcote Plaza while the route 553 bus operates from Preston to West Preston. Bus routes 527 and 903 operate from the nearby Murray Road, north-east of Preston station. The route 527 bus operates from Gowrie railway station to Northland Shopping Centre while the route 903 operates from Altona railway station to Mordialloc.\nBus connections:"}
{"id": "708588", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708588", "title": "Regent railway station", "text": "Regent station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the northern suburb of Reservoir, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, and opened on 8 October 1889, with the current station provided in 1970.\nInitially opened as Preston-Regent Street, the station was given its current name of Regent on 1 August 1905.\nHistory.\nNamed after nearby Regent Street, Regent station opened when the Inner Circle line was extended from North Fitzroy to Reservoir.\nIn 1967, boom barriers replaced hand gates at the Regent Street level crossing, located nearby in the up direction from the station. In 1970, the present station buildings were provided.\nPlatforms and services.\nRegent has two side platforms and is served by Mernda line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates three bus routes via Regent station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708589", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708589", "title": "Reservoir railway station", "text": "Reservoir station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-eastern suburb of Reservoir, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Reservoir is an elevated premium station, featuring an island platform with two faces. It opened on 8 October 1889, with the current station provided in December 2019.\nInitially opened as Preston-Reservoir, the station was given its current name of Reservoir on 1 December 1909.\nHistory.\nReservoir station opened when the Inner Circle line was extended from North Fitzroy station. On 23 December of the same year, the line was further extended to Epping. Like the suburb, the station was named after the three reservoirs that were built south-east of the station, in 1864, 1909 and 1913 respectively. The reservoirs were constructed to hold Melbourne's water supply from the Yan Yean Reservoir.\nThe station was originally the terminus for suburban services on the Whittlesea line. The line was duplicated in December 1910 and, in July 1921, Reservoir became the terminus for suburban electric trains. In 1924, an eighth-metre-long turntable was provided at the station, to turn the AEC railmotor which operated between Reservoir and Whittlesea, making two trips a day. In December 1929, electric train services were extended from Reservoir to Thomastown and, in 1940, the turntable was abolished.\nIn 1959, duplication of the line to Keonpark station was provided. In 1963, manually operated boom barriers replaced hand-operated gates at the former High Street level crossing, which was at the down end of the station. In 1967, the former ground-level station buildings were provided, replacing the original structures.\nIn the early hours of 13 July 1975, a deliberately-lit fire damaged Harris motor 567M and Tait motor 345M, both of which were stabled at the station. On 29 December 1980, Harris backing trailer 533BT, which was in a consist operating the 23:15 down service to Epping, was damaged by fire as it arrived at the station.\nOn 18 December 1986, a number of sidings and signals were abolished. On 1 April 1987, further sidings were abolished. On 8 May 1988, the former signal box and interlocked frame were abolished. Also abolished were two crossovers at the up and down ends of the station, as well as the double line block signalling system between Reservoir and Keon Park, which was replaced with automatic three-position signalling. Pedestrian gates were also installed at the former station pedestrian crossing, which was at the down end, and at the former High Street level crossing. Two months earlier, the double line block system between Bell and Reservoir had been abolished.\nIn 1991, a reconfigured High Street level crossing was opened, with that arrangement existing until the grade separation of the level crossing in 2019. On 25 June 1996, Reservoir was upgraded to a premium station.\nIn January 2016, the Level Crossing Removal Authority announced that the High Street level crossing would be removed by grade separation. In September 2018, preliminary designs were released, showing that the grade separation would be achieved by elevating the railway, with a new station to be built at the existing location. The winning station design was produced by local architecture firm Genton. Plans for grade separation have dated as far back as the early to mid 1970s.\nOn 2 December 2019, the ground-level station was closed for demolition, and the new station, above a multi-road intersection, was opened on 16 December of that year. As part of the work, crossovers were reinstated at both the up and down ends of the new station.\nThe new station was designed by architecture firm Genton, with landscaping by McGregor Coxall. It features an elevated rail corridor with a translucent canopy and angled metal facade inspired by the ripple effect of water, reflecting Reservoir\u2019s historical role as a water infrastructure hub.\nThe design reconnects Edwardes Street and Broadway via a new civic plaza, improves pedestrian safety and access, and includes space for future tram and bus interchange expansion. The station received multiple awards, including the Special Prize Exterior at the 2021 Prix Versailles and the Sustainability Award at the Australasian Rail Industry Awards. It was also shortlisted in the 2021 Victorian Architecture Awards. Reservoir Station is the first train station in Australia to achieve a 5-star Green Star As-Built rating from the Green Building Council of Australia.\nPlatforms and services.\nReservoir has one island platform with two faces. It is served by Mernda line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates seven bus routes via Reservoir station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708590", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708590", "title": "Ruthven railway station", "text": "Ruthven station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the northern suburb of Reservoir, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. It opened on 5 August 1963.\nHistory.\nRuthven station was named after William Ruthven, who served in both world wars (winning the Victoria Cross in World War I), and was later a member of the Victorian Parliament, representing Preston and then Reservoir. A ceremony was held a day earlier to celebrate the opening, and dignitaries attending included Transport Minister Edward Meagher, and the opposition leader in the Victorian Legislative Council, John Galbally. When it opened, the station building was painted bright red.\nIn 2022, Ruthven received a $1.03 million upgrade, as part of the \"Victoria's Big Build\" project, including improved facilities and lighting, resurfacing the asphalt on the island platform, new PTV station signage with the red \"Clifton Hill group\" colour, and a substation constructed opposite Platform 1.\nPlatforms and services.\nRuthven has one island platform with two faces and is served by Mernda line trains.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates one bus route via Ruthven station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708591", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708591", "title": "Keon Park railway station", "text": "Keon Park station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the northern suburb of Reservoir, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Keon Park station is an elevated premium station, featuring an island platform with two faces. It opened on 16 December 1929, with the current station provided in June 2024.\nInitially opened as Keonpark, the station was given its current name of Keon Park on 29 February 1972.\nHistory.\nKeon Park station opened on 16 December 1929. It was named after Keon Park Pty Ltd., a land development company formed in 1924. Among the directors was Henry Isaac Cohen, a Barrister, M.L.C. and later a King's Counsel, Minister of Education and Minister for Water Supply, who married Ethel Mary Keon in 1901 and whose children adopted the surname of \"Keon-Cohen\".\nThe station opened at the same time as the extension of suburban services and electrification from Reservoir to Thomastown. In November 1959, the line from Reservoir was duplicated, in conjunction with the extension of suburban services to Lalor. However, the duplicated line converged at the up end of the former Keon Parade level crossing, and it was not until 1988 that the current Platform 2 was provided. The crossover, located at the upper end of the station and just past the level crossing, was also provided around this time. It remained the northern extremity for the double line until November 2011, when the line from Keon Park to Epping was duplicated.\nIn 1963, flashing light signals were provided at the former Keon Parade level crossing, with boom barriers provided later on in 1971. On 15 April 1972, a small fire damaged the interior of the station building. On 1 September 1973, the station was again damaged by fire, as well as damage occurring to the signal box. It was also around this time that the former City of Preston and former local member for the now abolished District of Reservoir, Jim Simmonds, asked the Victorian Railways for opinions on relocating the station to the up side of the level crossing, to allow better access from nearby residential areas.\nIn 1983, the former ground-level station building was provided, replacing an older timber structure. In 1986, a number of sidings that were located at the down end of the station were abolished.\nOn 29 July 2021, the Level Crossing Removal Project announced that the level crossing will be grade separated by 2025, with the railway line to be built over the road, and will include a rebuilt station. On 28 March 2022, the LXRP announced that the station would be rebuilt to the south of the current level crossing. In December 2022, final designs were released, with construction on the project beginning in early 2023.\nOn 12 January 2024, Keon Park Station was closed and demolished. The first elevated train bridge opened on 21 January 2024. The Flinders Street-bound way used the bridge as the Mernda-bound used the level crossing until April 2024, as a solution to keep trains running on the Mernda line.\nOn 30 April 2024, the Keon Parade level crossing and equipment were eliminated. The elevated train bridge for Mernda-bound way opened on 8 May 2024, and the rebuilt station opened to passengers on 21 June 2024.\nPlatforms and services.\nKeon Park has one island platform with two faces. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Mernda line services.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates one bus route via Keon Park station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nKinetic Melbourne operates one SmartBus route via Keon Park station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708592", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708592", "title": "Basil Hennessy", "text": "John Basil Hennessy AO (10 February 1925 \u2013 27 October 2013), was an Australian archaeologist of the Ancient Near East and Emeritus Professor of Near Eastern Archaeology at the University of Sydney.\nChildhood, early career and education.\nBorn in Horsham, Victoria, Australia in 1925, the eldest child of Thomas Basil Hennessy and Nell Poultney, Hennessy was educated in nearby Ballarat, before leaving school at 17 to join the Royal Australian Navy. Released from military service in 1946, Hennessy enrolled at the University of Sydney in early 1947 with the intention of studying anthropology. In 1948, however, Arthur Dale Trendall and James Stewart founded the University's Department of Archaeology, Hennessy becoming one of their first undergraduates.\nForeign ventures.\nGraduating with a BA Hons in 1950, Hennessy embarked on a tour throughout the Middle East, finishing at Ankara, capital of Turkey where Hennessy held the inaugural student scholarship at the newly created British School of Archaeology in Ankara.\nHennessy returned to Jerusalem at the end of 1951 in order to join the first season of renewed excavations at Jericho under the direction of Kathleen Kenyon. It was at Jericho that Hennessy was exposed to the Wheeler-Kenyon technique of baulk-debris excavation, a technique he was to employ and adapt widely in his own subsequent excavations.\nReturning to Australia via London, Hennessy became engaged to Ruth Shannon. The couple were married in 1954 and subsequently had three children.\n1954 also saw Hennessy join the Department of Archaeology at the University of Sydney, initially as a temporary lecturer (1954\u201355, 1957), then later as a full-time lecturer (1958\u201361). 1962 saw Hennessy and his young family leave Australia once more, in order that Hennessy might pursue postgraduate study at Oxford University, England. During the period 1962-64, Hennessy studied at Magdalen College, completing his DPhil under the supervision of Kathleen Kenyon. His resulting dissertation, entitled \"The Foreign Relations of Palestine during the Early Bronze Age\", remains one of the early standard works on that period.\nYears in Jerusalem.\nHennessy's completion of his doctorate coincided with the beginning of an intimate association with the British School of Archaeology in Jerusalem. Appointed Assistant Director of the School in 1965, becoming Deputy Director later the same year, Hennessy achieved the full directorship in 1966, remaining as Director until 1970. During these years, Hennessy directed excavations at the Damascus Gate in the Old City of Jerusalem (1964\u201366), at the Amman Airport Temple (1966), at Teleilat Ghassul (1967) and at Samaria in 1968.\nReturn to Sydney.\nHennessy left Jerusalem in 1970 because of the outbreak of Arab-Israeli hostilities, taking up the Edwin Cuthbert Hall Visiting Professorship in Near Eastern Archaeology at the University of Sydney. The chair was fully restored in 1973, Hennessy holding the Sydney professorship from that year until his retirement in 1990, when he was replaced by the current chair, Daniel Potts. During his tenure, Hennessy directed Australian excavations at Teleilat Ghassul (1975\u201377) and, from 1978 at Pella (initially in association with Wooster College, Ohio). Hennessy was also instrumental in founding the Near Eastern Archaeology Foundation at the University of Sydney in 1986.\nRetirement and honours.\nHennessy was appointed Emeritus Professor of Archaeology after his retirement in 1990 and in 1993 received an Honorary Doctor of Letters from his alma mater, the University of Sydney."}
{"id": "708593", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708593", "title": "Thomastown railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Thomastown station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the northern suburb of Thomastown, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Thomastown is a ground-level premium station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 23 December 1889, with the current station provided in 2011.\nHistory.\nOpening on 23 December 1889, when the railway line was extended from Reservoir to Epping, Thomastown station, like the suburb itself, is named after John and Mary Thomas, who began market gardening near Edgars Creek in 1848.\nThe station was originally serviced by regional trains on the line to Whittlesea. Electrification and suburban services were extended along 4.4 kilometres of single track from Reservoir to Thomastown in 1929, paid for by a land developer, who paid for the works and who also guaranteed against operating losses. From 1931, it was the terminus of the railmotor service from Whittlesea, remaining so until electric suburban services were extended to Lalor in November 1959, with services beyond Lalor discontinued and the line closed.\nOn 7 August 1967, the original station building was destroyed by fire. In 1969, a new station building, which was of a brick construction, was provided.\nIn 1968, flashing light signals were provided at the Heyington Avenue level crossing, located nearby in the up direction of the station. In 1980, boom barriers were provided. By the late 1980s, much of the yard to the east of the station was removed.\nOn 20 December 1996, Thomastown was upgraded to a premium station.\nIn September 2007, a VicRoads park &amp; ride upgrade opened, with an additional 100 car spaces opened to the south-east of the station, taking the total to 382. In 2010, 90 additional car parking spaces were provided.\nAs part of the duplication of the line from Keon Park to Epping, a second side platform was added, and the existing station rebuilt. On 28 November 2011, the current station opened.\nPlatforms and services.\nThomastown has two side platforms. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Mernda line services.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates six bus routes via Thomastown station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708594", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708594", "title": "Lalor railway station", "text": "Lalor station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the northern suburb of Lalor, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Lalor is a ground-level staffed station, featuring an island platform with two faces. It opened in October 1949, with the current station provided in 1978.\nInitially opened as Rail Motor Stopping Place 77, the station was given its current name of Lalor on 27 August 1952.\nHistory.\nLalor station opened in October 1949, and was provided as part of a garden suburb created by the Peter Lalor Home Building Cooperative Society, which was formed by a group of ex-servicemen to provide cheap homes during a time of high demand and shortage of materials post World War II.\nThe station was originally served by Whittlesea trains from Melbourne via the former Inner Circle line and, in later times, by Thomastown \u2013 Whittlesea railmotor shuttles. In November 1959, the section from Thomastown was electrified, with the line beyond Lalor closed. On 29 November 1964, the line was reopened and electrified as far as Epping. Occurring in that year, the current island platform was provided, and flashing light signals were provided at the Paschke Crescent level crossing, located at the up end of the station.\nIn 1978, the present station building was provided. In 1980, boom barriers were provided at the Paschke Crescent level crossing.\nThe current day Platform 1 was formerly a dock platform. In August 1988, points from No. 1 track to the main line were provided at the down end of the station, effectively forming a crossing loop between Thomastown and Epping. This arrangement existed until November 2011, when the line between Keon Park and Epping was duplicated, with the points at both ends of the station abolished.\nOn 4 May 2010, as part of the 2010/2011 State Budget, $83.7 million was allocated to upgrade Lalor to a premium station, along with nineteen others. However, in March 2011, this was scrapped by the Baillieu Government.\nAnnounced as part of a $21.9 million package in the 2022/23 Victorian State Budget, Lalor, alongside other stations, will receive accessibility upgrades, the installation of CCTV, and platform shelters. The development process will begin in late 2022 or early 2023, with a timeline for the upgrades to be released once construction has begun.\nLalor station, like the suburb in which it is located, was originally pronounced , as it was named after Peter Lalor and, although some people still pronounce it as such, in recent times, the pronunciation has become predominant. In addition, the \"Victorian Railways Newsletter\" of 1973, and \"Victorian RailWays\" of 1974 (Victorian Railways in-house newsletters) stated that the correct pronunciation was .\nPlatforms and services.\nLalor has one island platform with two faces. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Mernda line services.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates five bus routes via Lalor station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708596", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708596", "title": "Epping railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Epping station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Mernda line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the northern suburb of Epping in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. It opened on 23 December 1889 and, since 2011, it has been a below-ground, premium station, with an island platform.\nHistory.\nEpping station opened as a stop on the line to Whittlesea, with trains designated as country services. From 1924, an AEC railmotor shuttle service operated from Reservoir to Whittlesea, until the line was closed north of Lalor on 29 November 1959.\nOn 30 November 1964, a new station opened a little further down the line, as part of the electrification of the line from Lalor to Epping. The station building was relocated from Glen Waverley, which was being rebuilt at the time. On 1 January 1971, the building was damaged by a deliberately lit fire.\nDuring the late 1980s, the station was rebuilt, in conjunction with the construction of the adjacent train depot, with the north face of the former ground level island platform brought into use in July 1987, along with temporary station buildings. The new platform was built on a new alignment, with 200 metres of new track needed to link to the existing line. By the end of that month, the former platform and station building, dating from 1964, were demolished, along with the former alignment of the track and overhead wiring. The south face of the former ground level island platform (Platform 1) was brought into use nine months later, in April 1988. In 1989, new Solid State Interlocking was commissioned, which was the first fully computerised system in Melbourne.\nIn 1990, the suburban train depot opened, which was a replacement for the Jolimont Workshops in central Melbourne. The depot covers 10.8 hectares, and can accommodate 31 trains, with the facility including a main workshop building, four elevated tracks, two lifting tracks and a train wash. On 23 July 1998, Epping was upgraded to a premium station.\nAt about 0914 on 18 June 2002, two Comeng train sets collided approximately 1\u00a0km south of the station.\nIn 2010, construction commenced on a new, below-ground island platform north of Cooper Street, as part of a grade separation project in conjunction with the duplication of the line from Keon Park and its extension to South Morang station. The rebuilt station opened on 28 November 2011. The former ground level island platform and building were demolished soon after and, in early 2012, a number of stabling sidings were built on that site.\nPlatforms, facilities and services.\nEpping has one island platform with two faces and is served by Mernda line trains. Access to the platforms is provided by stairs and a lift. The station concourse contains a customer service window, an enclosed waiting room, toilets and a kiosk.\nTransport links.\nDysons operates six bus routes via Epping station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nKinetic Melbourne operates one SmartBus route via Epping station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708597", "revid": "286058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708597", "title": "Sudbury Basin", "text": "The Sudbury Basin (), also known as Sudbury Structure or the Sudbury Nickel Irruptive, is a major geological structure in Ontario, Canada. It is among the oldest and largest known impact structures on Earth. The structure, the eroded remnant of an impact crater, was formed by the impact of an asteroid 1.849 billion years ago in the Paleoproterozoic era. The ores of the Sudbury Basin are known to contain nickel, copper, gold, silver, platinum, palladium, rhodium, iridium, and ruthenium.\nThe basin is located on the Canadian Shield in the city of Greater Sudbury, Ontario. The former municipalities of Rayside-Balfour, Valley East and Capreol lie within the Sudbury Basin, which is referred to locally as \"The Valley\". The urban core of the former city of Sudbury lies on the southern outskirts of the basin.\nAn Ontario Historical Plaque was erected by the province to commemorate the discovery of the Sudbury Basin.\nFormation.\nThe Sudbury basin formed as a result of an impact into the Nuna supercontinent from a large impact body approximately in diameter that occurred 1.849 billion years ago in the Paleoproterozoic era.\nDebris from the impact was scattered over an area of and thrown more than ; ejecta\u2014rock fragments ejected by the impact\u2014have been found as far away as Minnesota.\nModels suggest that for such a large impact, debris was most likely scattered globally, but has since been eroded. Its present size is believed to be a smaller portion of a diameter crater that the meteor originally created. Subsequent geological processes have deformed the crater into the current smaller oval shape. Sudbury Basin is among the largest-known craters on Earth, after the diameter Vredefort impact structure in South Africa, and the diameter Chicxulub crater under Yucat\u00e1n, Mexico.\nGeochemical evidence suggests that the impactor was likely a chondrite asteroid or a comet with a chondritic component.\nStructure.\nThe full extent of the Sudbury Basin is long, wide, and deep, although the modern ground surface is much shallower.\nThe main units characterizing the Sudbury basin are as follows (in stratigraphic order): The footwall brecciated country rock including the offset dikes, The Sublayer, The Sudbury Igneous Complex (SIC), and the Whitewater Group.\nFootwall rocks, associated with the impact event, consist of Sudbury Breccia (pseudotachylite), footwall breccia, radial and concentric quartz dioritic breccia dikes (polymict impact melt breccias).\nThe sub layer is the main zone of mineralization.\nThe SIC is an elliptical shaped differentiated igneous body. Geographically it is common to differentiate the different areas of the SIC by the North Range, the East Range and the South Range which refer to the high topographic areas around the rim of the impact site. Stratigraphically the base of the SIC starts with quartz Norite capped by brown or green norite in the south range, and mafic norite capped by felsic norite in the north and east ranges. Overlying these norite layers is quartz gabbro followed by the Crows Foot granophyre and a transition layer of normal granophyre.\nThe Whitewater Group consists of a suevite and sedimentary package composed of the Onaping (fallback breccias), Onwatin, and Chelmsford Formations in stratigraphic succession.\nBecause considerable erosion has occurred since the Sudbury event, an estimated in the North Range, it is difficult to directly constrain the actual size of the diameter of the original transient cavity, or the final rim diameter.\nThe deformation of the Sudbury structure occurred in five main deformation events (by age in millions of years):\nOrigin.\nSome 1.8 billion years of weathering and deformation made it difficult to prove that a meteorite was the cause of the Sudbury geological structures. A further difficulty in proving that the Sudbury complex was formed by meteorite impact rather than by ordinary igneous processes was that the region was volcanically active at around the same time as the impact, and some weathered volcanic structures can look like meteorite collision structures. Since its discovery, a layer of breccia has been found associated with the impact event, and stressed rock formations have been fully mapped.\nReports published in the late 1960s described geological features that were said to be distinctive of meteorite impacts, including shatter cones and shock-deformed quartz crystals in the underlying rock. Geologists reached a consensus by about 1970 that the Sudbury Basin was formed by a meteorite impact. In 2014, analysis of the concentration and distribution of siderophile elements as well as the size of the area where the impact melted the rock indicated that a comet, rather than an asteroid, most likely caused the crater.\nThe Sudbury Basin is located near a number of other geological structures, including the Temagami Magnetic Anomaly, the Lake Wanapitei impact crater, the western end of the Ottawa-Bonnechere Graben, the Grenville Front Tectonic Zone, and the eastern end of the Great Lakes Tectonic Zone, but the structures are not directly related to one another in the sense of resulting from the same geological processes.\nMining.\nThe large impact crater filled with magma containing nickel, copper, palladium, gold, the platinum group, and other metals. This magma formed into pyrrhotite, chalcopyrite, and pentlandite rocks, as well as cubanite and magnetite.\nIn 1856, while surveying a baseline westward from Lake Nipissing, provincial land surveyor Albert Salter located magnetic abnormalities in the area that were strongly suggestive of mineral deposits, especially near what later became the Creighton Mine. The area was examined by Alexander Murray of the Geological Survey of Canada, who confirmed \"the presence of an immense mass of magnetic trap\".\nDue to the then-remoteness of the Sudbury area, Salter's discovery did not have much immediate effect. The construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway through the area, however, made mineral exploration more feasible. The development of a mining settlement occurred in 1883 after blasting at the railway construction site revealed a large concentration of nickel and copper ore at what is now the Murray Mine site, named by owners William and Thomas Murray.\nThe Vermillion Mine, which was the first in the Basin to be exploited, was the site at which Frank Sperry (a chemist of the Canadian Copper Company) made the first identification in 1889 of the arsenide of platinum which bears his name.\nAs a result of the 1917 Royal Ontario Nickel Commission, which was chaired by Englishman George Thomas Holloway, the legislative structure of the prospecting trade was significantly altered. Some of the Holloway recommendations were in line with the advocacy of Aeneas McCharles, a 19th-century prospector and early mine owner.\nAs a result of these metal deposits, the Sudbury area is one of the world's major mining communities, and has fathered Vale Inco and Falconbridge (now a division of Xstrata). The Basin is one of the world's largest suppliers of nickel and copper ores. Most of these mineral deposits are found on its outer rim.\nList of mines in the Sudbury Basin.\nThis list was collected from the 1917 topographic map of the Sudbury Basin, located at right. \nEconomic Geology.\nThe mineral deposits around Sudbury are linked to the impact event, which created conditions for a magmatic style ore deposit. The events are proposed to be the following:\nMineral deposits in Sudbury are generally grouped into four types. \nSoils.\nMost soils in the Sudbury Basin are acidic and sandy; where well-drained, they usually belong to the Podzol great soil group. Poor drainage results in gleysols and peats. Regardless of drainage or classification, the Basin has deeper soils than the surrounding terrain, much of which is mapped as Rockland (a combination of frequent bedrock outcrops and shallow soil). Consequently, considerable areas in the Basin have been cleared for agriculture. The best soils, mapped as Azilda series and Bradley series, occur around Chelmsford.\nAstronaut training.\nNASA used the site to train the Apollo astronauts in recognizing rocks formed as the result of a very large impact, such as breccias. Those who used this training on the Moon include Apollo 15's David Scott and James Irwin, Apollo 16's John Young and Charlie Duke, and Apollo 17's Gene Cernan and Jack Schmitt. Notable geologist instructors included William R. Muehlberger."}
{"id": "708598", "revid": "45801052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708598", "title": "Blaa", "text": "A blaa , or Waterford Blaa, is a doughy, white bread bun (roll) speciality, particularly associated with Waterford, Ireland. It is currently made in County Waterford and south County Kilkenny.\nBlaas are sold in two varieties: \"soft\" and \"crusty\". Soft blaas are slightly sweet, malt flavour, light but firm in texture and melt in the mouth. Crusty blaas are crunchy at first bite, then chewy with a subtle malt taste and a pleasing bitter aftertaste from the well cooked, dark crust.\nEaten mainly at breakfast with butter, they are also eaten at other times of the day with a wide variety of fillings (including a type of luncheon meat often referred to as \"red lead\"). The \"breakfast blaa\" (egg, bacon rasher and sausage) is more common than the \"breakfast roll\" in Waterford.\nA combined 12,000 blaas are sold each day by the four remaining bakeries producing blaas: Walsh's Bakehouse, Kilmacow Bakery, Barron's Bakery &amp; Coffee House and Hickey's Bakery. Of the four remaining bakeries, only two remain in Waterford City. Blaas quickly lose their freshness and are best consumed within a few hours of purchase.\nSome sources report that the blaa was introduced to Waterford at the end of the 17th century by the Huguenots.\nThis theory is disputed because although white flour existed in the 17th century, it was not widely used until mass production of the industrial revolution.\nBlaas are sometimes confused with a similar bun known as a bap; however, blaas are square in shape, softer, and doughier, and are most notably identified by the white flour shaken over them before the baking process.\nOn 19 November 2013, the Waterford blaa was awarded Protected Geographical Indication status by the European Commission."}
{"id": "708601", "revid": "16528233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708601", "title": "John Braden (producer)", "text": "John Braden (April 18, 1949 \u2013 May 22, 2004) was an American writer, producer, and director of motion pictures and television programs, as well as a public advocate against drugs in the movie industry.\nEducated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he was drafted and served in the Vietnam War. Known best for his work on shows including \"Magnum, P.I.\", \"The A-Team\", \"Knight Rider\", \"Dukes of Hazzard\", and \"The Fall Guy\", he often worked with producer Harry Thomason.\nAfter marriage, he moved to Lewisville, Texas, and later to Killeen, where he started several companies to serve local military families. Braden died from pneumonia in Pilot Point, Texas."}
{"id": "708605", "revid": "20718714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708605", "title": "North London Railway", "text": "The North London Railway (NLR) company had lines connecting the northern suburbs of London with the Port of London further east. The main east to west route is now part of London Overground's North London Line. Other NLR lines fell into disuse but were later revived as part of the Docklands Light Railway, and London Overground's East London Line. The company was originally called the East and West India Docks and Birmingham Junction Railway (E&amp;WID&amp;BJR) from its start in 1850, until 1853. In 1909, it entered into an agreement with the London and North Western Railway which introduced common management, and the NLR was taken over completely by the LNWR in 1922. The LNWR itself became part of the LMS from the start of 1923. The railways were nationalised in 1948 and most LMS lines, including the North London route, then came under the control of the London Midland Region of British Railways.\nHistory.\nThe East and West India Docks and Birmingham Junction Railway was incorporated by an act of Parliament, the (9 &amp; 10 Vict. c. cccxcvi), on 26 August 1846. It was empowered to construct a railway from the district of Poplar and the docks to Camden Town in north London. The railway's headquarters and locomotive works were initially in Bow.\nThe (16 &amp; 17 Vict. c. xcvii) renamed the company to the North London Railway.\nAt first, it ran trains from Bow Junction on the London and Blackwall Railway (L&amp;BR) to Islington, starting on 26 September 1850. The line was extended to Camden Town railway station from 7 December 1850 and to Hampstead Road station (later renamed Primrose Hill) from 9 June 1851. Another extension via the L&amp;BR was opened on 1 January 1852, from Bow Junction to Poplar railway station, and from there to Blackwall and the East India Docks; a connection at Bow allowed trains to run to Fenchurch Street. This arrangement lasted until 1865, when an extension from Dalston Junction to Broad Street was opened; Broad Street became the main terminus, and the Poplar line became a branch. In the meantime, in 1864, a banker on a train from Fenchurch Street to Chalk Farm became the first victim of a murder on a British train. \nIn 1869, the line was extended along the North and South Western Junction Railway (a joint enterprise by the LNWR, Midland Railway and the NLR) from Willesden Junction to a London and South Western Railway branch to Richmond. A bypass line from Camden to Willesden Junction via Gospel Oak and West Hampstead opened in 1860. Meanwhile, at the eastern end, a spur line connecting the NLR to Stratford from Victoria Park opened in 1854 but was not used by passenger services. The line between Camden Town and Dalston Junction was quadrupled in 1871.\nThe LNWR took over the working of the railway under a common management arrangement on 1 February 1909. The company still existed until 1922, with its own board of directors and shareholders, when it was absorbed by the LNWR. The last board meeting and last shareholders meeting were both held on 23 November 1922, the latter giving the shareholders' approval of amalgamation. The board minutes were signed by A Holland-Hibbert, the chairman, who added \"Goodbye!\". Beneath this was typed, \"This was the last Board Meeting of the North London Railway Company, the Undertaking being absorbed under \u201cThe London and North Western Railway (North London Railway and Dearne Valley Railway) Preliminary Absorption Scheme 1922\u201d by the London and North Western Railway Company as from 1 January 1922.\"\nThe LNWR, which half-owned Broad Street station, was responsible for electrification of the Broad Street to Richmond and Kew Bridge lines in 1916.\nLegacy.\nThe Kew Bridge service was withdrawn as a wartime economy measure in 1940, which proved to be permanent.\nThe line from Dalston Junction to Poplar was heavily damaged during the Blitz of World War II. Passenger services from Broad Street to Poplar via Victoria Park and Bow were suspended on 15 April 1944 and officially closed on 14 May 1944. A substitute bus service was provided until 23 April 1945 but the service was finally withdrawn at the end of the war. The northern section of the East Cross Route (A12) built in the late 1960s ran parallel to the rail line between Old Ford and Victoria Park stations, both of which were demolished for the road's construction.\nThe Crosstown Linkline service reinstated passenger service over the Dalston Junction to Victoria Park Junction section of the Poplar branch from 14 May 1979, running from Camden Town to Stratford and then over the former Eastern Counties and Thames Junction Railway to North Woolwich. The remaining freight line from Victoria Park Junction to Poplar Docks via Bow Junction closed on 3 October 1983. From 13 May 1985, the Camden to North Woolwich Crosstown Linkline was combined with the Richmond to Broad Street service and ceased to serve Dalston Junction and Broad Street, which finally closed on 30 June 1986.\nThe line between Willesden Junction and Camden via Primrose Hill is now primarily used (in 2014) for empty coaching stock movements between the North London Line and Willesden Depot, freight trains and, during engineering work, diverted passenger services to and from the Watford DC Line. Primrose Hill station has been closed.\nSince 31 August 1987, Docklands Light Railway has followed the path of the North London Railway from Bow Church to Poplar.\nThe East London Line Extension took over the abandoned stretch between Dalston Junction and Shoreditch from April 2010, incorporating it into the London Overground network.\nStock.\nAmong the first locomotives bought by the railway from outside contractors were five 0-4-2ST engines. After that, all were constructed at Bow, London.\nWorkshop.\nBow railway works was built in 1853 and had a sizeable wagon repair shop. When the railway was merged into the LMS it was the smallest of 15 workshops. It repaired NLR locomotives and from 1927 those from the former London, Tilbury and Southend Railway (LTSR).\nIn the 1930s, the works developed and manufactured the Hudd automatic control system for the LTSR, which led to a British Rail (BR) team from the national headquarters setting up in Bow to develop BR's standard Automatic Warning System. The workshop was badly damaged during the Blitz and the wagon workshop destroyed.\nIn 1956, the workshop repaired diesel-electric locomotives for the motive power depot at Devons Road (the first to become all-diesel). After a while it was receiving locos in the morning and turning them round by the evening, which initially confused the statistical returns since locos were entering and leaving the works on the same day. The works closed in 1960.\nStations.\nRichmond to Willesden Junction (joined NLR 1856):\nWillesden Junction to Camden via Primrose Hill (opened 1851\u20132, passenger services between South Hampstead and Camden withdrawn 1992):\nWillesden Junction to Camden via West Hampstead &amp; Gospel Oak (opened 1860):\nCamden Road to Dalston (opened 1850):\nDalston to Broad Street (opened 1865, closed 1986, mostly reopened 2010):\nDalston to Poplar (opened 1850, closed to passengers 1944, Dalston- Stratford reopened 1980):\nBow to Plaistow (1869 to 1916):\nAt Poplar, the line connected to Millwall Junction, allowing goods trains to run to Blackwall and the East India Docks, or along the Millwall Extension Railway, which served the West India Docks."}
{"id": "708609", "revid": "51923200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708609", "title": "Victoria International Airport", "text": "Victoria International Airport serves Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. It is north northwest of Victoria on the Saanich Peninsula, with the bulk of the airport (including the passenger terminal) in North Saanich, and a small portion of the airfield extending into Sidney. The airport is run by the Victoria Airport Authority. YYJ has many non-stop daily flights to Vancouver International Airport (YVR, about 15 minutes), which is a major airport serving many global routes. Additionally, Victoria International has non-stop international service to Seattle (SEA), and domestic service to Ottawa (YOW), Toronto (YYZ), Montreal (YUL, summer only), Calgary (YYC), Edmonton (YEG), alongside several smaller cities in British Columbia and Yukon. The airport also has seasonal (late fall to early spring) non-stop service to several Mexican resort destinations. Non-stop service between Victoria and the United States decreased by 50% at the beginning of September 2019 when Delta Air Lines permanently ended its three daily flights to Seattle, after which only Alaska Airlines continued to fly the route.\nVictoria International Airport is classified as an airport of entry by Nav Canada and is staffed by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA). CBSA officers at this airport can handle aircraft with no more than 450 passengers, when unloaded from the aircraft in stages, or 120 normally. YYJ does not have United States customs and border preclearance, but many passengers fly first to Vancouver International Airport (YVR), which does have U.S. preclearance.\nIn 2024, YYJ served 1,872,033 passengers and had 95,615 aircraft movements, making it Canada's 11th busiest airport in terms of passengers. It was British Columbia's third busiest airport in terms of passengers and aircraft movements. The airport is also home to Arundel Castle, the operating base for 443 Maritime Helicopter Squadron of the Royal Canadian Air Force.\nLike most airports that are run by local authorities in Canada, YYJ charges an airport improvement fee for each outgoing passenger. As of April 2024, it was $25.00 per departing passenger. AIF fees are usually added to fares and collected automatically by most airlines.\nHistory.\nThe airport started in 1939 as a grass strip, and was used as a military training airfield. During the early part of World War II (1940\u20131941), the airfield was used as Royal Air Force Station Patricia Bay, providing basic flight training for Royal Air Force pilots preparatory to returning them to the UK.\nIn approximately 1942 the aerodrome became a Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) installation listed as RCAF Aerodrome - Patricia Bay, British Columbia at with a variation of 24 degrees east and elevation of . The aerodrome was listed with three runways as follows:\nThe airport is located beside Patricia Bay, which, due to the prevalence of flying boats at the time, proved to be an excellent location. The Department of Transport took over the airport in 1948. It was then called Victoria (Patricia Bay) Airport, and many locals still refer to it as the \"Pat Bay Airport\". Trans-Canada Airlines (later Air Canada) began regular service in 1943.\nIn 1959, the airport was renamed the \"Victoria International Airport\".\nThe last RCAF unit left the airport in 1952. In July 1989, Canadian Forces Air Command returned to Victoria International Airport when HS 443 Squadron, which operated CH-124 Sea King ship-borne anti-submarine warfare (ASW) helicopters, was relocated from CFB Shearwater to better support Canadian Forces Maritime Command operations in the Pacific. In 1995, the squadron was redesignated as 443 Maritime Helicopter Squadron.\nIn 1997, as part of a broad scale restructuring of airports across Canada, Transport Canada (formerly the Department of Transport), gave operational control of the airport to the Victoria Airport Authority.\nIn 2000, the Victoria Airport Authority began the process of renovating and expanding the terminal to meet passenger needs. In 2002, the new airside hold room and the new arrivals rotunda were rebuilt. By 2005, the new departures area was completed.\nIn May 2005, the federal government, which owns the land, announced a reduction in the rent paid by the Victoria Airport Authority. This will save $0.6 million each year and $12 million over the life of the lease, which is 50 years.\nIn 2015, 443 Maritime Helicopter Squadron moved into a new $155 million heliport at the airport, which the RCAF titled \"Arundel Castle\" after the major landmark of that name in West Sussex, the English county where the unit operated when it was a fighter squadron flying the Supermarine Spitfire during World War II. The main mission of 443 Squadron in the 21st century is to provide ASW and logistical support for the Royal Canadian Navy. As of 2022, 443 Squadron is responsible for all Canadian west coast operations of the CH-148 Cyclone helicopter.\nIn July 2016, Westjet Airlines announced that they would be permanently ending service to Honolulu from Victoria. The non-stop route had started in 2009 and had ended due to the lack of demand.\nIn September 2018, United Airlines announced that the daily United Express flight from Victoria to San Francisco would permanently end on January 7, 2019, concluding over a decade of daily non-stop service between the two cities.\nIn March 2019, Delta Air Lines announced that all Delta flights from Victoria to Seattle would permanently end on September 2, 2019, concluding a three-year presence by the airline in Victoria and leaving Alaska Airlines as the only airline serving Victoria directly from Seattle or anywhere in the United States. Delta was the second airline to leave Victoria that year, after United Airlines withdrew service in January 2019.\nTerminal.\nThe main terminal has ten gates, organized as gates 3\u20134, 5\u201311, and 12\u201313. Gates 3-4 and 12-13 are equipped with aircraft loading bridges.\nThere are three luggage carousels: two located at the arrivals area for domestic passengers, and one for international flights located inside the customs area.\nAs of December 1, 2010, time limited, ad supported Wi-Fi internet service provided by Telus is available terminal wide.\nAirlines and destinations.\nMost commercial flights at Victoria fly either to airports in nearby British Columbia and Alberta or to western Washington. Seasonal scheduled flights by WestJet connect Victoria to tourist destinations in Mexico. For the Summer 2017 season, Air Canada Rouge operated wide-body Boeing 767s on its daily flights to Toronto.\nDevelopment plans.\nThe Victoria International Airport Master Plan 2023\u20132024 lays out the long-term development and future plans of the airport. The Master Plan highlights future infrastructure growth for the airport in two phases, 2023\u20132032 and 2033\u20132042.\nFlight training.\nThere are several organisations that offer flight training at the airport:\nGround transport.\nVictoria International Airport is 22\u00a0km from downtown Victoria.\nIt is served by taxi (Yellow Cab).\nBC Transit routes 87 and 88 make connections to the airport. Passengers using BC Transit can connect with intercity bus service in Victoria.\nBy car, the airport is normally a 20-minute drive from downtown Victoria (with little or no traffic, and a 40-minute drive with traffic) via Highway 17.\nThe airport has short term and long term/daily parking lots next to the terminal with an additional overflow lot. Rental lot is located to the southwest of the terminal building.\nA interchange at Highway 17 and McTavish Road, the main highway access point to the airport, was completed in April 2011. Funding for the interchange was shared between the federal, provincial governments and Victoria Airport Authority.\nFire and rescue.\nVictoria International Airport Fire and Rescue operates three crash tenders and one support vehicle to deal with emergencies at the airport. The current station (Airport Fire Service and Airport Operations) opened in 2010 to replace the former station dating back to World War II."}
{"id": "708610", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708610", "title": "Eastern Divide", "text": ""}
{"id": "708614", "revid": "15270283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708614", "title": "Hod (Kabbalah)", "text": "Hod (Hebrew \"H\u014d\u1e0f,\" lit. 'majesty, splendour, glory') is the eighth sephira of the Kabbalistic Tree of Life. It is positioned on the left side of the tree beneath Gevurah (severity) and directly opposite Netzach (eternity).\nHod is associated with qualities such as submission, humility, and intellectual rigor. It represents the capacity to comprehend and articulate divine truths, balancing the emotive and instinctual energies of Netzach. This balance is crucial for maintaining the flow of divine energy through the sefirot and manifesting it in the material world. Hod is also linked to the planet Mercury and the archangel Michael in Western esoteric traditions.\nDescription.\nHod sits below Gevurah and across from Netzach in the tree of life; Yesod is to the south-east of Hod. It has four paths, which lead to Gevurah, Tiphereth, Netzach, and Yesod.\nAll the sephirot are likened to different parts of the body and the tree itself to a homunculus. Netzach and Hod are likened to the two feet of a person, the left and right. The feet not only bring a person to their place of intention; integrity here at the base of the pillar is foundational to all that stands above.\nHasidic Judaism's view of \"Hod\" is that it is connected with Jewish prayer. Prayer is seen as a form of submission; \"Hod\" is explained as an analogy - that instead of conquering an obstacle in one's way, (which is the idea of \"Netzach\"), subduing oneself to that obstacle is related to the quality of \"Hod\".\n\"Hod\" is where form is given by language in its widest sense, being the key to the mystery of form (this may be an adoption of a point of view of Jacques Lacan). Our unconscious desires come from \"Netzach\", and are given form in the symbolic realm by \"Hod\", manifesting unconsciously through \"Yesod\" to Malkuth.\nIn Western esotericism.\nHod is described as being a force that breaks down energy into different, distinguishable forms, and it is associated with intellectuality, learning and ritual, as opposed to Netzach, Victory, which is the power of energy to overcome all barriers and limitations, and is associated with emotion and passion, music and dancing.\nBoth these forces find balance in Yesod, foundation, the world of the unconscious, where the different energies created await expression in the lowest world of Malkuth, the Kingdom.\nHod is associated with the god-name of \"Elohim Tzabaoth.\" The archangel of this sphere is Michael, and the Bene Elohim is the Angelic order. The opposing demonic force of the qlippoth is Samael.\nHod is said to be the sphere in which the magician mostly works. An example is given by occultist and author Dion Fortune in \"The Mystical Qabalah\":\nImagine primitive man is meditating in the wilderness, and comes in contact with, and begins to understand, some energy that surrounds him. So that he can grasp it better, he creates some form, perhaps the form of a god or a symbol, so he has something he can relate to. He then uses that statue or that symbol in future ceremonies to contact that intangible energy once again. This is the role that Hod plays in magic, while the music and dance that may be present in such a ceremony is the role that Netzach might play, providing the raw energy to reach the higher levels of consciousness.\nIn comparison with Eastern systems, both Hod and Netzach are sometimes associated with the Manipura chakra (solar plexus chakra), which is associated with the breaking down and releasing of energy, anabolism and catabolism.\nIn \"777\", Aleister Crowley associates Hod to the Four Eights of occult tarot among these being Anubis, Thoth, Hanuman, Loki, Hermes, Mercury, Jackal, Hermaphrodite, Opal, Storax, and quicksilver (Not a complete list)."}
{"id": "708615", "revid": "50964715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708615", "title": "Lake Maggiore", "text": "Lake Maggiore (, ; ; ; ; literally 'greater lake') or Verbano (; ) is a large lake on the south side of the Alps divided between the Italian regions of Piedmont and Lombardy to the south, and the Swiss canton of Ticino to the north. Located halfway between Lake Orta and Lake Lugano, Lake Maggiore extends for about between Locarno and Arona. It is the second largest lake in Italy and the largest in southern Switzerland. \nThe climate is mild in both summer and winter, producing Mediterranean vegetation, with many gardens growing rare and exotic plants. Well-known gardens include those of the Borromean and Brissago Islands, that of the Villa Taranto in Verbania, and the Alpinia Botanical Garden above Stresa.\nLake Maggiore is drained by the river Ticino, a main tributary of the Po. Its basin also collects the waters of several large lakes, notably Lake Lugano (through the Tresa), Lake Orta (through the Toce) and Lake Varese (through the Bardello).\nGeography.\nLake Maggiore is long, and wide, except at the bay opening westward between Pallanza and Stresa, where it is wide. It is the longest Italian lake, and second to Lake Garda in area. Its mean height above the sea level is ; a deep lake, its bottom is almost everywhere below sea-level: at its deepest, below. Its form is very sinuous so that there are few points from which any considerable part of its surface can be seen at a single glance. If this lessens the effect of the apparent size, it increases the variety of its scenery. While the upper end is completely alpine in character, the middle region lies between hills of gentler form, and the lower end advances to the verge of the plain of Lombardy. Lake Maggiore is the most westerly of the three great southern prealpine lakes, the others being Lake Como and Lake Garda.\nThe lake basin has tectonic-glacial origins and its volume is . The lake has a surface area of about , a maximum length of (on a straight line) and, at its widest, is . Its main tributaries are the Ticino, the Maggia (forming a very large delta), the Toce (by which it receives the outflow of Lake Orta) and the Tresa (which is the sole emissary of Lake Lugano). The rivers Verzasca, Giona, and Cannobino also flow into the lake. Its outlet is the Ticino which, in turn, joins the river Po just south-east of Pavia.\nThe lake's jagged banks are surrounded by the Pennine and Lepontine Alps, and Lugano Prealps. Prominent peaks around the lake are the Gridone, Monte Tamaro, Monte Nudo and the Mottarone. The highest mountain overlooking Lake Maggiore is Monte Rosa (), about west of it. The western bank is in Piedmont (provinces of Novara and Province of Verbano-Cusio-Ossola) and the eastern in Lombardy (province of Varese), whereas the most northerly section extends into the canton of Ticino, where it constitutes its lowest point above sea level as well as that of Switzerland. The culminating point of the lake's drainage basin is the Grenzgipfel summit of Monte Rosa at above sea level.\nClimate.\nLake Maggiore weather is humid subtropical (\"Cfa\" in the K\u00f6ppen climate classification). During winter, the lake helps to maintain a higher temperature in the surrounding region (since water releases heat energy more slowly than air). The temperatures are cooled down in summer by the breezes that blow on the water's surface, changing its colour. The area enjoys nearly 2300 hours of sunshine a year and an average annual temperature of . The water of the lake has a comfortable temperature of in July and August. In winter snowfall is erratic and primarily affects the higher elevations. Rainfall is heaviest in May and lowest during the winter months.\nFlora and fauna.\nThe flora is strongly influenced by the lake basin, which has allowed the proliferation of typically Mediterranean plants, and also of plants native to the Atlantic areas favoured by the composition of the soil and the abundance of siliceous rocks. Lemons, olive trees and bay olive trees grow there. The spontaneous vegetation is composed of yew, holly and chestnut trees on the surrounding hills.\nThe lake is a habitat to two species of whitefish, \"Coregonus\" and, less widespread, \"Coregonus lavaretus\". Both live in deep water and come ashore only during the spawning in early December. There are also perch, pike, chub, burbot, torpedo, eels and \"Alburnus arborella\". The lake is home to several species of nesting waterfowl, it also represents an important corridor, a place of rest and feeding for migrations. For example: common merganser, mute swan, grebes, gulls, cormorants, ducks.\nA number of exotic species have established themselves in the lake, including pikeperch, which has been recorded since 1977; wels catfish, which was first noticed in the early 1990s; and ruffe, introduced in the mid-1990s. Wels catfish in excess of 50\u00a0kg in weight have been fished from the lake.\nSacro Monte di Ghiffa.\nThe Sacred Mountain of Ghiffa is a Roman Catholic devotional complex in the \"comune\" of Ghiffa, (Piedmont, northern Italy), overlooking Lake Maggiore. It is one of the nine Sacri Monti of Piedmont and Lombardy, included in the UNESCO World Heritage list.\nEvents.\nThe Spirit of Woodstock Festival is an annual open air festival at the end of July/beginning of August. It is organized in Armeno by the Mirapuri community.\nTransport.\nBoat transport on the lake, including car ferries, is provided by \"Gestione Governativa Navigazione Laghi\" (). The regular boat lines connect piers of lakeside towns and villages, in both Italy and Switzerland, with each other and with the Borromean and Brissago islands.\nThe Locarno\u2013Cadenazzo, Cadenazzo\u2013Luino and Luino\u2013Milan railway lines follow the eastern shore of the lake, while the Domodossola\u2013Milan railway runs along the southern part of the western shore. Regional train services are operated by Trenord and TiLo. There is no railway line along the northwestern shore (between Locarno and Verbania), but further north there is a railway line between Domodossola and Locarno.\nHistory.\nThe first archaeological findings around the lake belong to nomadic people living in the area in prehistoric types. The first settlements discovered date from the Copper Age. Along the shores of the lake, between the 9th and 4th centuries BC. J.-C., the Golasecca culture, a Celtic civilization of the Iron Age developed. The latter was in turn conquered by the Romans, who called the lake \"Verbanus Lacus\" or \"Lacus Maximus\". In Roman times a maritime line was created that linked the lake, thanks to Ticino, to Pavia, from where the ships would then continue along the Po to the Adriatic Sea.\nAfter the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the lake was under different domains. Most of the current settlements originated in the Middle Ages when the lake was under the Della Torre, Visconti, the Borromeo and Habsburg families.\nClashes also took place on the waters of the lake between military fleets, such as in 1263, when the Della Torre ships fought against those of the Visconti near Arona or, between 1523 and 1524, when the Borromeo clashed against Francesco II Sforza and in 1636 between French and Spanish always in the waters between Arona and Angera.\nFrom the fourteenth century until the end of the eighteenth century, navigation on the lake and on the Ticino was also used to transport the heavy blocks of marble obtained from the quarries around the lake towards the main Lombard construction sites: the cathedral of Milan and the Certosa di Pavia.\nMethane was first discovered and isolated by Alessandro Volta as he analysed marsh gas from Lake Maggiore, between 1776 and 1778.\nFrom the middle of the 19th century, the lake began to experience strong tourist development, particularly after Queen Victoria's stay in Baveno in 1879.\nIn 1936, a Bugatti Type 22 Brescia Roadster, built in 1925, was sunk in the lake by employees of Z\u00fcrich architect Marco Schmucklerski, when Swiss customs officials investigated whether he had paid taxes on the car. The Bugatti was attached to an iron chain making it possible to recover it once the investigation was over, yet that never happened. When the chain corroded, the car sunk to the lake bed, where it was rediscovered on 18 August 1967 by local diver Ugo Pillon and became a favourite target for divers thereafter. When one of the divers, Damiano Tamagni, was killed in a hold-up on 1 February 2008, his friends from the Ascona divers' club decided to lift and sell the car wreck to raise funds for a yet-to-be-created foundation named after the victim. The remains of the Bugatti were recovered on 12 July 2009. The sale took place at the Retro Mobile classic car exhibition in Paris on 23 January 2010. It was sold for \u20ac260,500.\nIn May 2021, a cable car collapsed near the lake, killing 14 people.\nIn May 2023 a boat capsized in a storm while travelling between Arona and Sesto Calende, killing 4 people. Among the dead were 2 Italian intelligence agents as well as a former agent of Mossad.\nThe Hotel Meina incident at Lake Maggiore.\nThis incident is part of the Lake Maggiore massacres during WWII.\nMeina is a municipality northwest of Milan, on the southern shores of Lake Maggiore. The Hotel Meina was north of the town of Meina and was owned by Alberto and Eugenia Behar, Sephardic Jews who had moved to Italy from Constantinople. In September 1943, an armistice was declared between Italy and the Allies. At that time, the Hotel Meina housed a number of Jewish guests, most of them escapees of the Nazi occupation of Greece. The area around Lake Maggiore was not under Allied control but was occupied by the German Waffen-SS, specifically the infamous \"Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler\". Captain Hans Kr\u00fcger, who directed operations in Meina and the surrounding villages, was in charge of locating the Jews in that area and was responsible for the Lake Maggiore massacres in which about 54 Jews were murdered.\nOn the night of 22 September 1943, most of the Jewish residents of the Hotel Meina were executed and their bodies were thrown into Lake Maggiore. The Fernandez-Diaz family, a family of Greek Sephardic Jews from Thessaloniki, barricaded themselves in one of the fourth-floor hotel rooms. It took an extra day for the Germans to reach and execute them. The family included three young children whose lives were not spared despite pleas from older family members. Among those killed were Dino Fernandez-Diaz (76 years old), Pierre Fernandez-Diaz (46), Liliane (Scialom) Fernandez-Diaz (36), Jean Fernandez-Diaz (17), Robert Fernandez-Diaz (13), Blanchette Fernandez-Diaz (12), Marco Mosseri (55), Ester Botton (52), Giacomo Renato Mosseri (22), Odette Uziel (19), Raoul Torres (48), Valerie Nahoum Torres (49), and Daniele Modiano (51). In total, sixteen Jewish residents of the hotel were executed. Its owners, the Behar family, survived due to the efforts of the Turkish consulate.\nThe Italian police report on the Meina massacre was lost but resurfaced in 1994, along with hundreds of other files of war crimes committed post-armistice by Germans who still occupied or were retreating from Italian soil. These files had been hidden in a wooden cabinet, the so-called \"cabinet of shame\", discovered in a storeroom of the military prosecutor's headquarters.\nGermany does not extradite its citizens convicted of war crimes in other countries. Those responsible for the Meina massacre were tried at home in Germany in 1968, convicted and sentenced to life in prison. However, in 1970, the German Supreme Court declared the statute of limitations for those particular war crimes to have expired, and the prisoners were released.\nReferences in literature and popular culture.\nLake Maggiore is featured in American writer Ernest Hemingway's novel \"A Farewell to Arms\". The protagonist (Frederic Henry) and his lover (Catherine Barkley) are forced to cross the transnational border within the lake in a row boat to escape Italian carabinieri.\nIt also appeared as the location of a fictional racetrack in the racing game \"Gran Turismo Sport\" and \"Gran Turismo 7\".\nDie Flippers, a German Schlager group wrote a song called \"Lago Maggiore\" that appears on their 1990 album Sieben Tage Sonnenschein."}
{"id": "708620", "revid": "1951353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708620", "title": "Marcin Libicki", "text": "Marcin Wojciech Libicki (born 2 February 1939 in Pozna\u0144) is a Polish politician, former member of the Polish parliament (Sejm), elected for the Pozna\u0144 constituency.\nOn 13 June 2004, he was elected as a Member of the European Parliament (MEP), and when the Parliament convened he was elected chair of its Committee on Petitions.\nHe is a member of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, also the alumnus of Adam Mickiewicz High School in Pozna\u0144. He is the father of Jan Filip Libicki, a member of Sejm."}
{"id": "708621", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708621", "title": "Archinephric duct", "text": ""}
{"id": "708622", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708622", "title": "Han (people)", "text": ""}
{"id": "708623", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708623", "title": "Leydig's duct", "text": ""}
{"id": "708625", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708625", "title": "Wolffian ducts", "text": ""}
{"id": "708628", "revid": "25859633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708628", "title": "1st amendment", "text": ""}
{"id": "708629", "revid": "51542990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708629", "title": "Alamein line", "text": "The Alamein line is a commuter railway line on the Melbourne metropolitan railway network serving the city of Melbourne in Victoria, Australia. Operated by Metro Trains Melbourne, the line is coloured dark blue and is one of the four lines that constitute the Burnley group. It is the city's second shortest metropolitan railway line at . The line runs from Flinders Street station in central Melbourne to Alamein station in the east, serving 18 stations via Burnley, Camberwell, Riversdale, and Ashburton.\nThe line operates for approximately 19 hours a day (from approximately 5:00 am to around 12:00 am) with all-night service on Fridays and Saturdays. During peak hours, headways of up to 15 minutes are operated with services every 10\u201330 minutes during off-peak hours. Trains on the Alamein line run with one or two three-car formations of X'Trapolis 100 trainsets.\nSections of the Alamein line opened as early as 1898, with the line fully extended to Alamein by 1948. The Alamein line was originally part of the Outer Circle line which operated from 1890 until its closure in 1897. The line was built to connect Melbourne with the suburb towns of Camberwell and Ashburton, amongst others previously served by the Outer Circle line. Minor upgrades have occurred since its opening, including historical level crossing removal works and regular infrastructure upgrades.\"\"\nHistory.\n19th century.\nWhat is now known as the Alamein line was opened as the Outer Circle Railway between 1890 and 1891. The segment still in use today was opened on 24 March 1890.\n20th century.\nThe section from Camberwell to Ashburton was reopened 4 July 1898 and was operated by a steam locomotive and single carriage. The northern section, from Riversdale to Deepdene, was reopened on 14 May 1900, with a steam train, known locally as the Deepdene Dasher, running between Ashburton and Deepdene at ~90-minute intervals, connecting at East Camberwell on the lower platform. The Deepdene Dasher was the last passenger steam train in suburban Melbourne.\nElectrification of the Melbourne suburban rail network commenced in the 1920s. In 1923, the Railway Commissioners decided not to electrify the line from Deepdene through Riversdale to Ashburton, due to insufficient traffic levels, but would keep the issue under review. Their position was partly reversed, with the Camberwell to Ashburton section later being included in the project. The last steam train ran to Ashburton on 29 October 1924 with electric train services commencing three days later in the form of shuttle trains from Camberwell to Ashburton, running every 40 minutes. On 15 August 1926, the last steam train the Deepdene Dasher ran, and was replaced by a pair of AEC railmotors coupled back to back. The Commissioners intended to electrify the line if the volume of traffic increased, but that did not occur, and the service was replaced by road bus on 10 October 1927. The electrified suburban service remains as today's Alamein line.\nThe line from Camberwell to the terminus was a single line with no crossing loops provided. The single train running operated a shuttle service along the line from Camberwell. Staff and Ticket safeworking was used, except between Camberwell and Riversdale where Lever Locking &amp; Track Control was provided on 2 November 1924. Patronage and revenue on the line doubled after electrification, and on 12 October 1925 a 30 to 45 minute connecting service was provided to Ashburton. From 26 November 1928 two trains were provided at peak hours, with a new crossing loop provided at Hartwell. Through trains to the city at peak hour were provided from 17 May 1934. From 3 October 1938 the daytime off peak frequency was improved to 15 minutes.\nOn 28 June 1948, the line was extended to the new Housing Commission of Victoria estate of Alamein, with some services extended to the new terminus. After World War II, as part of Operation Phoenix, plans were drawn up to duplicate the line and provide a flying junction connection at Camberwell. It was authorised in 1951, but was delayed due to funding issues and other competing projects. The first long stage opened on 7 November 1954, from Hartwell to Ashburton stations, followed by the duplication and automatic signalling of the stretch of line from Riversdale to Hartwell section on 31 July 1955. From 15 July 1955, Ashburton station ceased to be a regular terminus. However, reduced loan funds for railway construction during 1955 and 1956 delayed the rest of the works, with the overpass and new line at Camberwell finally commissioned on 29 November 1959. The last stage of the works had to wait until 8 November 1962 when automatic signalling was introduced between Hartwell and Ashburton, and the signal bay at Hartwell closed.\nFrom 9 July 1972, the service was cut to every hour on Sundays, and from 10 December 1973 it was changed to 20 minutes during the day and every 40 minutes at night and on Saturday afternoons. Through trains to Flinders Street off-peak were provided from 20 January 1975 at a frequency of every 15 minutes Monday to Friday, with Box Hill trains running express from Camberwell.\nIn the 1980s, moves were made to close the line and replace it with a bus service, but these proposals were met with widespread opposition in what had been considered safe seats for the state government of the day. Under sustained opposition, a proposal was made to convert the line to light rail, but this seemed to have limited effect in quelling the backlash. A further suggestion was made to replace the track closest to East Camberwell with a 4th platform as the new terminus instead of Camberwell. This too was unpopular, and the line remained intact. The Kennett government of the early 1990s. made another attempt to close or convert the line. However, once again, there was a significant public outcry in the areas bordering it and the Alamein line has remained open and in operation well into the 21st century.\n21st century.\nThe 2000s saw the introduction of the X'Trapolis 100 rolling stock on the line. The new stock features three doors per side on each carriage with the ability to accommodate up to 456 seated passengers in each six-car configuration.\nNetwork and operations.\nServices.\nServices on the Alamein line operate from approximately 5:00 am to around 12:00 am daily. In general, during peak hours, train frequency is 10\u201320 minutes while services during non-peak hours drop to 20\u201330 minutes throughout the entire route. Due to the limited number of passengers on the Alamein line, services operate as a shuttle in off-peak times to Camberwell instead of continuing into the central business district. On Friday and Saturday nights, services run 24 hours a day, with 60 minute frequencies available outside of normal operating hours.\nTrain services on the Alamein line are also subjected to maintenance and renewal works, usually on selected Fridays and Saturdays. Shuttle bus services are provided throughout the duration of works for affected commuters.\nStopping patterns.\nLegend \u2014 Station status\nLegend \u2014 Stopping patterns&lt;br&gt;Some services do not operate via the City Loop\nGuide.\nSource:\nWeekdays.\n- Early morning, interpeak and night services to and from Alamein run only as a shuttle from Camberwell with all services stopping at all stations.\n- During the morning and afternoon peaks services to and from Alamein run all the way to Flinders Street.\nWeekends.\n- All services on weekends to and from Alamein run only as a shuttle from Camberwell with all services stopping at all stations.\nNight Network.\n- All night network services to and from Alamein run only as a shuttle from Camberwell with all services stopping at all stations.\nOperators.\nThe Alamein line has had a total of 6 operators since its opening in 1898. The majority of operations throughout its history have been government run: from its first service in 1898 until the 1999 privatisation of Melbourne's rail network, four different government operators have run the line. These operators, Victorian Railways, the Metropolitan Transit Authority, the Public Transport Corporation and Hillside Trains have a combined operational length of 101 years. Hillside Trains was privatised in August 1999 and later rebranded as Connex Melbourne. Metro Trains Melbourne, the current private operator, then took over the operations in 2009. Both private operators have had a combined operational period of years.\nRoute.\nThe Alamein line forms a relatively straight route from the Melbourne central business district to its terminus in Alamein. The route is long and is predominantly doubled-tracked, however between Flinders Street station and Richmond, the track is widened to 12 tracks, narrowing to 4 tracks between Richmond and Burnley, to 3 track between Burnley and Camberwell, and to two tracks after Camberwell . After Ashburton, the line is narrowed to a single track which remains till its terminus in Alamein. After departing from its terminus at Flinders Street, the Alamein line traverses gentle hills with moderately heavy earthworks for most of the line. Some sections of the line have been elevated or lowered into a cutting to eliminate level crossings. As of 2020, there are two level crossings remaining on the line with no current plans to remove them.\nThe line follows the same alignment as the Belgrave, Glen Waverley, and Lilydale lines with the Glen Waverley line splitting off after Burnley and the three remaining services splitting off at Camberwell. The Alamein line continues on its southern alignment, whereas the Belgrave and Lilydale lines takes an eastern alignment towards their final destinations. All of the rail line goes through built-up suburbs towards its terminus in Alamein.\nStations.\nThe line serves 18 stations across of track. The stations are a mix of elevated, lowered, underground, and ground-level designs. Underground stations are present only in the City Loop, with the majority of elevated and lowered stations being constructed as part of level crossing removals.\nInfrastructure.\nRolling stock.\nThe Alamein line uses X'Trapolis 100 electric multiple unit (EMU) trains operating in a one or two three-car configuration, with three doors per side on each carriage and can accommodate of up to 456 seated passengers in each six-car configuration. The trains were originally built between 2002 and 2004 as well as between 2009 and 2020 with a total of 212 three-car sets constructed. The trains are shared with 7 other metropolitan train lines and have been in service since 2003.\nAlongside the passenger trains, Alamein line tracks and equipment are maintained by a fleet of engineering trains. The four types of engineering trains are: the shunting train; designed for moving trains along non-electrified corridors and for transporting other maintenance locomotives, for track evaluation; designed for evaluating track and its condition, the overhead inspection train; designed for overhead wiring inspection, and the infrastructure evaluation carriage designed for general infrastructure evaluation. Most of these trains are repurposed locomotives previously used by V/Line, Metro Trains, and the Southern Shorthaul Railroad.\nAccessibility.\nIn compliance with the Disability Discrimination Act of 1992, all stations that are new-built or rebuilt are fully accessible and comply with these guidelines. Less than half of stations on the line are fully accessible as they haven't been upgraded to meet these guidelines. These stations do feature ramps, however, they have a gradient greater than 1 in 14. Stations that are fully accessible feature ramps that have a gradient less than 1 in 14, have at-grade paths, or feature lifts. These stations typically also feature tactile boarding indicators, independent boarding ramps, wheelchair accessible myki barriers, hearing loops, and widened paths.\nIndividual station upgrade projects have helped improve station accessibility on the line, however, only 40% of stations on the line are fully wheelchair accessible.\nSignalling.\nThe Alamein line uses three-position signalling, which is used across the Melbourne train network. Three position signalling was first introduced on the line in 1919, with the final section to Ashburton converted to the new type of signalling in 1962. Since Ashburton and Alamein stations are very close to each other, the single track between the two stations uses station limits working."}
{"id": "708631", "revid": "31618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708631", "title": "Culture jammers", "text": ""}
{"id": "708632", "revid": "50624815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708632", "title": "Krystyna \u0141ybacka", "text": "Krystyna Maria \u0141ybacka (; 10 February 1946 \u2013 20 April 2020) was a Polish political figure who served in the country's national Parliament (Sejm), since 1991 to 2014 and from October 2001 to May 2004, and was a member of the cabinet, with the title of Minister of National Education.\nA native of the small, west-central town of Jutrosin in Greater Poland Voivodeship's Rawicz County, \u0141ybacka received her degree from the mathematics/physics/chemistry department at Adam Mickiewicz University in Pozna\u0144. Earning a doctorate from the Mathematics Institute of Pozna\u0144 University of Technology in 1976 with the thesis, \"Random Division of a Square\", she remained on the faculty of the Institute's Electrical Engineering department. A member of Polish Mathematical Society since 1969, wherein 1983-1986 she was a secretary, and in 1986-1989 - a member of the board of the Pozna\u0144 Branch of the Polish Mathematical Society.\nDuring the years 1978\u201389, she was a member of Polish United Workers' Party, the name used by the communist party ruling Poland between 1948 and 1989 and, in 1993, joined its successor party, the Social Democracy of the Republic of Poland, becoming, in 1996, its leader in Pozna\u0144. In 1999, she rose to the head of Pozna\u0144 voivodeship sejmik [council] and, in December, to the deputy leader of the Democratic Left Alliance's national leadership council. Starting with modern Poland's first entirely free election, in 1991, she was re-elected to the Sejm in each subsequent poll, 1993, 1997, 2001, 2005, and 2007, serving on various committees, including the National Defense Committee and the Special Services Committee. In her 3rd term, she was deputy head of the Committee for Education, Study, and Youth, a position she also held in the 5th term.\nIn the aftermath of the 23 September 2001 parliamentary election, Prime Minister Leszek Miller asked her to join his cabinet in the position of Minister of National Education and Sport, which she fulfilled for the following two-and-a-half years from 19 October 2001 until 2 May 2004. Subsequently, in 2004\u201305, she was deputy leader of the Democratic Left Alliance's Parliamentary Club. Following her win in the 2007 election, with 24,405 votes in the Pozna\u0144 constituency, she switched, on 22 April 2008, to the new Left grouping formed from the dissolved Left and Democrats.\nIn 2014 she was elected as Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for the Democratic Left Alliance party. In 2019, \u0141ybacka received the Education, Culture and Media Award at \"The Parliament Magazine\"'s annual MEP Awards."}
{"id": "708637", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708637", "title": "Hapag-lloyd", "text": ""}
{"id": "708638", "revid": "41189247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708638", "title": "Governor of Oregon", "text": "The governor of Oregon is the head of government of Oregon and serves as the commander-in-chief of the state's military forces. The title of governor was also applied to the office of Oregon's chief executive during the provisional and U.S. territorial governments.\nThe current governor of Oregon is Tina Kotek, who took office on January 9, 2023. The governor's salary as of 2018 is $98,600.\nConstitutional descriptions.\nArticle V of the Oregon State Constitution sets up the legal framework of the Oregon Executive Branch.\nEligibility.\nArticle V, Section 1 states that the governor must be a U.S. citizen, at least 30 years of age, and a resident of Oregon for at least three years before the candidate's election. Section 2 extends ineligibility as follows:\nSection 1 further sets the maximum number of consecutive years a governor may serve, specifying that\nThere is no specified limit on the number of total terms. John Kitzhaber is the only governor to have served non-consecutive terms. Kate Brown, who completed Kitzhaber's final term after his resignation, was elected to an additional four-year term but was ineligible to run for a second term due to the restriction on serving more than eight years in a twelve-year span.\nElections and terms of office.\nSections 4-7 of Article V outline the formal gubernatorial election procedures such as publishing the winner, ties, disputed elections, and terms of office.\nThe formal process of certification of results of a gubernatorial election ends when the Secretary of State delivers the results to the Speaker of the Oregon House of Representatives. The Speaker then will publish the results to a joint session of the Oregon Legislative Assembly.\nWhere an election results in a tie, a joint session of the next legislative session will vote on the two candidates, and declare the winner governor. Legally contested elections are also decided by the full legislature in whichever manner other laws may prescribe.\nLine of succession.\nThe gubernatorial line of succession was modified in 1920, 1946, and 1972. The current list is designated as Article V, Section 8a. It defines who may become or act as the governor of Oregon upon the incapacity, death, resignation, or removal from office of a sitting governor. The new governor (or acting governor) will serve out the remainder of the previous governor's or incapacitated governor's term. A special gubernatorial election is required, if there's more than two years remaining in the previous governor's or incapacitated governor's term. Unlike many states, Oregon does not have a Lieutenant Governor (though in 2007, legislation was proposed to establish such an office.) The current order is:\nTransition events.\nFour governors have died in office, and five governors have resigned.\nState military forces.\nThe governor is the commander-in-chief of the Oregon Military Department. Power is granted to the governor to mobilize and deploy state military forces.\nPardons.\nThe power to grant pardons and reprieves and to commute sentences is granted to the governor, with limitations placed upon cases of treason. Additionally, the governor can remit fines and forfeitures. Any use of these powers, however, must be reported to the legislature.\nIn treason cases, the governor may only grant reprieves. The final matter of pardons, commuting of sentencing, or further reprieves is referred to the legislature in these cases.\nLegislative.\nThe governor has the power to veto legislation, which can be overridden by a two-thirds majority in both houses of the legislature, and can veto particular items from an appropriations or emergency bill while leaving others intact (see line item veto).\nIf needed, the governor may convene a special session of the legislature by proclamation and is empowered to call for special elections to fill vacant seats. Between the vacancy and special election, the governor is able to appoint a replacement if the appropriate county boards are unable to do so within the designated time period.\nAnnually, the governor addresses the legislature in their State of the State address. In this speech the governor outlines the current conditions of the state, and makes recommendations to the assembly as to what the government's priorities ought to be.\nAppointments.\nIf the legislature is out of session, the governor may appoint replacements to fill state offices until elections are held or the legislature reconvenes (see recess appointment).\nOfficial residence.\nMahonia Hall in Salem is the official governor's mansion.\nThe house was built in 1924 for hops grower Thomas A. Livesley. It was named Mahonia Hall after citizens raised funds in 1988 to purchase it as Oregon's first official governors' mansion.\nBefore the purchase of Mahonia Hall, whatever house the governor rented became the \"Governor's mansion\". Governors Atiyeh and McCall lived in the 1929 Stiff-Jarman House, an English cottage-style (also characterized as Arts and Crafts style) residence in the North Capitol Mall Historic Redevelopment area. After the end of Atiyeh's term, the Stiff-Jarman House became the headquarters of the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. Today the building houses rented offices.\nProvisional government (1843\u20131849).\nMeetings at Champoeg led up to the first constitution of the Oregon Country, and a petition for U.S. territorial status. The resulting acts also created this body as a provisional government for the region. The first executives of this government were a three-person, elected committee known as the Executive Committee. In 1845, elections for a chief executive were held. The first person in Oregon to hold the title of governor was George Abernethy, a prominent businessman."}
{"id": "708641", "revid": "26074453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708641", "title": "Amjad Farooqi", "text": "Amjad Farooqi (; \u2013 September 26, 2004), alias Amjad Hussain, was a Pakistani militant who operated in Indian-administered Kashmir, Afghanistan and Pakistan.\nBackground.\nFarooqi was believed to have been involved in the 1995 kidnapping of Western tourists in Jammu and Kashmir, and under the alias \"Mansur Hasnain\", was suspected to be one of the hijackers of Indian Airlines Flight 814, which was rerouted to Taliban-controlled Afghanistan in 1999.\nHe was allegedly involved in the murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl in 2002, and, along with Abu Faraj al-Libbi, the assassination attempts on Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf on 14 and 25 December 2003. Farooqi was also suspected of having been an associate of al-Qaeda terrorist Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.\nPakistani security forces launched a massive manhunt for Farooqi and other terrorists in May 2004, and eventually cornered him in his safehouse in Nawabshah, Sindh, where he was subsequently killed following a two-hour-long gunfight.\nFarooqi was a member of Jaish-e-Mohammed, an Islamic terrorist group that was founded by Pakistani militant Masood Azhar following his release by India as part of prisoner negotiations after the Pakistani Militant's hijacking of Indian Airlines Flight 814 in December 1999."}
{"id": "708642", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708642", "title": "Robert Dickson (writer)", "text": "Robert Dickson (July 23, 1944 \u2013 March 19, 2007) was a Canadian poet, translator and academic. Born and raised in Erin, Ontario, he spent much of his life and career living in Sudbury.\nHe studied French language and literature at the University of Toronto and Universit\u00e9 Laval, receiving his doctorate in 1972, and spent his academic career as a professor for the Department of French Studies and Translation at Laurentian University in Sudbury. He won the Governor General's Award for French language poetry in 2002, for his book \"Humains paysages en temps de paix relative\" ().\nHis first poetry collection, \"Une bonne trentaine\" () was published by The Porcupine's Quill in 1975, the only French language work ever published by that company. A poem from that collection, \"Au nord de notre vie\", was set to music by the folk rock group CANO, and came to be adopted as an anthem of Franco-Ontarian culture. His later poetry collections, all published by Prise de parole, included \"Or(\u00e9)alit\u00e9\" (1978, ), \"Abris nocturnes\" (1986, ), \"Grand ciel bleu par ici\" (1997, ) and \"Libert\u00e9s provisoires\" (2005, ).\nA compilation of his poetry, translated into English by Jo-Anne Elder, was published by Guernica Editions under the title \"Human Presences and Possible Futures\" (2013, ).\nHe also translated both French and English literary works, including English translations of works by Jean-Marc Dalp\u00e9 and French translations of works by Tomson Highway and Lola Lemire Tostevin.\nOver the course of his career, he was also awarded the Prix du CCRCF from the University of Ottawa's Centre for Research on French Canadian Culture and the Prix Nouvel-Ontario, and was named to the Ordre de la Pl\u00e9iade in 2005.\nDickson died at his home in Sudbury on March 19, 2007, from brain cancer.\nQuotation.\n\"Si je peux poser quelques pierre blanches\npour baliser le sentier \u00e0 inventer, \nje ne serais que tr\u00e8s content, \ncroyant que j'ai ainsi fait quelque chose \nde valable avec ma vie.\" \u2014 Robert Dickson "}
{"id": "708643", "revid": "12607721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708643", "title": "Keith Windschuttle", "text": "Keith Windschuttle (1942 \u2013 8 April 2025) was an Australian historian. He served on the board of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation from 2006 to 2011. He was editor of \"Quadrant\" from 2007 to 2015 when he became chair of the board and editor-in-chief. He was the publisher of Macleay Press, which operated from 1994 to 2010.\nMajor published items include \"Unemployment\" (1979), which analysed the economic causes and social consequences of unemployment in Australia and advocated a socialist response; \"The Media: a New Analysis of the Press, Television, Radio and Advertising in Australia\" (1984), on the political economy and content of the news and entertainment media; \"The Killing of History\" (1994), a critique of postmodernism in the study of history; \"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History: Volume One: Van Diemen's Land 1803\u20131847\" (2002), which accuses a number of Australian historians of falsifying and inventing the degree of violence in the past; \"The White Australia Policy\" (2004), a history of that policy which argues that academic historians have exaggerated the degree of racism in Australian history; and \"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History, Volume Three: The Stolen Generations 1881\u20132008\", which argues the story of the \"stolen generations\" of Aboriginal children is a myth.\nBiography.\nWindschuttle was born in 1942. He attended Canterbury Boys' High School (where he was a contemporary of Liberal Australian prime minister John Howard).\nWindschuttle was a journalist on newspapers and magazines in Sydney. He completed a BA (first-class honours in history) at the University of Sydney in 1969, and an MA (honours in politics) at Macquarie University in 1978. He enrolled as a PhD student but did not submit a thesis; instead he published it under the title \"The Media\" with Penguin Books. In 1973, he became a tutor in Australian history at the University of New South Wales (UNSW). Between 1977 and 1981, Windschuttle was lecturer in Australian history and in journalism at the New South Wales Institute of Technology (now the University of Technology, Sydney) before returning to UNSW in 1983 as lecturer/senior lecturer in social policy. He resigned from UNSW in 1993 and founded Macleay Press, a small-press publishing company. Published authors besides Windschuttle include Leonie Kramer and Michael Connor. He was a regular visiting and guest lecturer on history and historiography at American universities.\nIn June 2006, he was appointed to the board of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC), Australia's non-commercial public broadcaster, for a 5-year term which ended on 14 June 2011.\nWindschuttle died in Sydney on 8 April 2025.\nPolitical evolution.\nAn adherent of the New Left in the 1960s and 1970s, Windschuttle later moved to the political right. This process is first evident in his 1984 book \"The Media\", which took inspiration from the empirical perspective of the Marxist historian E. P. Thompson, especially his \"The Poverty of Theory\", to make a highly critical review of the Marxist theories of Louis Althusser and Stuart Hall. While the first edition attacked \"the political program of the New Right\" and set out a case for both favouring \"government restrictions and regulation\" and condemning \"private enterprise and free markets\", the third edition four years later (1988) took a different view: \"Overall, the major economic reforms of the last five years, the deregulation of the finance sector, and the imposition of wage restraint through the social contract of The Accord, have worked to expand employment and internationalise the Australian economy in more positive ways than I thought possible at the time.\"\nIn \"The Killing of History\", Windschuttle defended the practices and methods of traditional empirical history against postmodernism and praised historians such as Henry Reynolds, but he later argued that some of those he had praised for their empirically-grounded work fail to adhere to the principle. In the same book, Windschuttle maintained that historians on both sides of the political spectrum had misrepresented and distorted history to further their respective political causes or ideological positions.\nIn \"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History\" and other writings on Australian Aboriginal history, Windschuttle criticised historians who, he claimed, had extensively misrepresented and fabricated historical evidence to support a political agenda. He argued that Aboriginal rights, including land rights and the need for reparations for past abuses of Aboriginal people, had been adopted as a left-wing 'cause' and that those he perceived as left-wing historians were distorting the historical record to support that cause. For Windschuttle, the task of the historian was to provide readers with an empirical history as close to the objective truth as possible, based on an analysis of documentary, or preferably eyewitness, evidence. He questioned the value of oral history. His \"view is that Aboriginal oral history, when uncorroborated by original documents, is completely unreliable, just like the oral history of white people\". A historian has no responsibility for the political implications of an objective, empirical history. One's political beliefs should not influence one's evaluation of archival evidence.\nFor some of his critics, \"historians don't just interpret the evidence: they compose stories about these meanings, or in the words of Hayden White, they 'emplot' the past. This is itself a cultural process\".\nWindschuttle's research in the early 2000s disputed the idea that the colonial settlers of Australia committed genocide against the Indigenous Australians. He also disputed the widespread view that there was a campaign of guerrilla warfare against British settlement. Extensive debate on his work has come to be called the \"history wars\". He dismissed assertions, which he imputed to the current generation of academic historians, that there was any resemblance between racial attitudes in Australia and those of South Africa under apartheid and Germany under the Nazis. He was a frequent contributor to conservative magazines, such as \"Quadrant\" in Australia, of which he became editor in 2007, and \"The New Criterion\" in the United States.\nIn the wake of the 2011 Norway attacks, Windschuttle did not deny that the perpetrator, Anders Behring Breivik, had read and praised statements he had made at a symposium in New Zealand in 2006, but stressed that he was \"still at a complete loss to find any connection between them and the disgusting and cowardly actions of Breivik\". Windschuttle went on to add that \"it would be a 'disturbing accusation' if people thought that he had ever used deliberately provocative language that might have caused Breivik to take up a rifle and shoot unarmed teenagers in cold blood\".\n\"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History, Volume One, Van Diemen's Land 1803\u20131847\".\nIn his \"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History, Volume One\", the first book of a projected multi-volume examination of frontier encounters between white colonisers and Aboriginal people, Windschuttle criticised the last three decades of historical scholarship which had challenged the traditional view of Aboriginal passivity in the face of European colonisation. His critique specifically challenged the prevailing consensus created by what he called the \"orthodox school\" of Australian frontier history concerning the violence between indigenous Australians and settlers, by examining the evidence for reported in what is known as the \"Black War\" against the Aboriginal people of Tasmania. He referred to historians he defined as making up this \"orthodox school\" as being \"vain\" and \"self-indulgent\" for imposing their politics onto their scholarship, and \"arrogant, patronizing and lazy\" for portraying the Tasmanian Aboriginal people's behaviour and motivations in terms of European cultural concepts rather than taking the time to understand the cultural concepts of a hunter-gatherer society. Windschuttle's \"orthodox school\" comprises a large number of historians and archaeologists, dead or living, such as Henry Reynolds, Lyndall Ryan, Lloyd Robson, John Mulvaney, Rhys Jones, Brian Plomley, and Sharon Morgan, whom he regarded as responsible for a politicised reading of the past, and for inflating the number of Aboriginal deaths. Reviewing their work, he highlit multiple examples of what he alleged were misrepresented sources, inaccurate reportage or the citation of sources that do not exist. His work on sources constitutes, according one critic, his most damaging contribution to the subject, though Stuart Macintyre argued that Windschuttle \"misreads those whom he castigates\".\nWindschuttle challenged the idea that mass killings were commonplace, arguing that the colonial settlers of Australia did not commit widespread massacres against Indigenous Australians; he drastically reduced the figures for the Tasmanian Aboriginal death toll, and wrote that Aboriginal people referred to by both Reynolds and Ryan as resistance figures, included \"black bushrangers\" and others engaged in acts normally regarded as \"criminality\"; arguing that the evidence clearly shows that attacks by Aboriginal people on settlers were almost invariably directed at acquiring goods, such as flour, sugar, tea and tobacco, and that claims by orthodox historians that this was a form of guerrilla warfare against British settlement aren't supported by credible evidence. Vicki Grieves argues that Windschuttle regards Aboriginal men who traded their women's services as pimps, although Windschuttle did not use the term. Adducing the work of a source who Stuart Macintyre claimed was 'a particularly tendentious American anthropologist', he argued that the Tasmanian Aboriginal society was primitive, dysfunctional and on the verge of collapse, because their putative maltreatment of women impaired their ability to reproduce in a number of critical ways. Windschuttle agreed with earlier historical analysis, such as that of Geoffrey Blainey, that introduced disease was the primary cause of the demise of the Tasmanian Aboriginal people. He was highly critical of recent historical scholarship, arguing that much of it ignored the scholar's basic duties to be objective and true to the evidence, and he advanced a sympathetic analysis of settler opinion, arguing that historians such as Henry Reynolds had misrepresented the contents of records of settler opinion to conceal the fact that the majority of settlers were consistently in favour of the protection of Aboriginal people. He also criticised Aboriginal land right politics, arguing that it has resulted in many Aboriginal people being effectively confined to remote settlements far from viable employment opportunities and from the benefits of a modern society. His own examination of archives, contemporary newspapers, diaries and official accounts yields a provisory figure of approximately 120 deaths of Tasmanian Aboriginal people \"for which there is a plausible record of some kind\" as having been killed by settlers, as opposed to earlier figures ranging as high as 700, and thus far less than the number of whites (187) reported as killed during the \"Black War\" of 1824 to 1828 by Aboriginal people. Windschuttle argued that the principles of the Enlightenment, fused with the 19th-century evangelical revival within the Church of England and Britain's rule of law had a profound effect on colonial policy and behaviour, which was humane and just, that together made the claimed genocide culturally impossible. Gregory D. B. Smithers argues that Windschuttle interpreted settler violence as self-defence.\nWindschuttle argued that encroaching pastoralism did not cause starvation through the loss of native hunting grounds as some historians had proposed, as their numbers were being drastically reduced by introduced disease, and large parts of Tasmania were not then, or now, occupied by white settlers. Windschuttle's estimate of the size of the Tasmanian Aboriginal population at the time of settlement is that it may have been as low as 2,000. Estimates made of the combined population of the Aboriginal people of Tasmania, before European arrival in Tasmania, are generally in the range of 3,000 to 8,000 people. Genetic studies have suggested much higher figures, which is supported by oral traditions that Aboriginal people were \"more numerous than the white people were aware of\" but that their population had been decimated by a sudden outbreak of disease prior to 1803. It has been speculated that early contacts with passing ships, exploratory expeditions or sealers before colonization may have caused outbreaks of epidemic disease. The low rate of genetic drift found in a recent genetic study argues that the highest previous estimate of pre-colonial Aboriginal population (8,000) is likely too low and that a significantly higher population cannot be ruled out. He argued that the evidence showed that what the orthodox historians construed as \"resistance\" by Tasmanian Aboriginal people were acts of theft and violence motivated by their desire for exotic consumer goods like flour, tea, sugar and blankets. The indigenous culture, in his view, \"had no sanctions against the murder of anyone outside their immediate clan\", therefore they had no cultural sanctions preventing the killing of settler outsiders to obtain desired goods or in revenge. The forced removal of Tasmania's Aboriginal people from the Tasmanian mainland to Flinders Island was the Colonial Administration's measure to ensure peace for hard-pressed settlers while attempting, unsuccessfully to prevent the extinction of the full-blooded Tasmanian Aboriginal people. The rapid decline in the Aboriginal population after the British colonisation was the product of the interaction of a number of factors, including introduced diseases causing death and infertility, continued internecine warfare, deaths through conflict with settlers and the loss of a significant number of women of childbearing age from the full-blooded aboriginal gene pool to white sealers and settlers through abduction, \"trade\" and by voluntary association.\nSpecific issues.\nTreatment of women.\nWindschuttle referred to accounts by the French zoologist Fran\u00e7ois P\u00e9ron, by George Augustus Robinson in his journals, and by the early Australian writer James Bonwick, of the violence and cruelty with which many Tasmanian Aboriginal men were observed to treat women. He notes that the \"murder of women because of insult, jealousy and infidelity, was common\" and that a woman who refused a particular suitor would often be abducted and raped. He argues that this contributed to the willingness of some Aboriginal women to associate themselves with sealers and settlers rather than their own people, so reducing the full-blooded Aboriginal population's ability to reproduce itself. He cited a number of accounts including one published in 1820 by a British officer who had spoken with Aboriginal women living with Bass Strait sealers. The officer reported that Aboriginal women made it known that their (Aboriginal) husbands treat them with \"considerable harshness and tyranny\" and that they sometimes run away and \"attach themselves to the English sailors\", finding \"their situation greatly improved by attaching themselves to the sealing gangs\". Windschuttle held that the willingness of some Tasmanian Aboriginal women to engage in prostitution with convicts, sealers and settlers and the Tasmanian Aboriginal men who \"actively colluded\" in the trade in their women aided in the transmission of sexually transmitted and other introduced diseases to the indigenous population. Windschuttle argues that introduced disease was the primary cause of the destruction of the full-blooded Tasmanian Aboriginal people, not merely by directly causing deaths but also through widespread infertility resulting from introduced sexually transmitted disease.\nJames Boyce, a Tasmanian historian, dismisses Windschuttle's argument as \"uninformed slander\" based on a failure to read the only documentary sources that matter, the journals of French and British explorers recording the first contacts with Tasmanian Aboriginal people before the colonial period. Examining Windschuttle's use of sources for the view women were treated like slaves and drudges, he says Windschuttle relied on a selective reading of just two of many sources in an early work by Ling Roth, \"written at the height of Social Darwinist orthodoxy\" (1899). However, Ling Roth did not \"write\" these sources; he simply translated the diaries of the first contacts by the French explorers. One is from P\u00e9ron, who noted scars on women, and interpreted them as signs of domestic violence, which however he had never witnessed. Other early observers took this scarring as an indigenous cultural practice. James Cook had noticed Aboriginal men's and women's bodies were both incised with scars in the same manner. P\u00e9ron was less sympathetic than other first observers on the Baudin expedition to Australia. Boyce argues that their observations, including those of the captain Nicolas Baudin, do not support Windschuttle's claims. Even P\u00e9ron records an encounter at Port Cygnet with a group of Aboriginal men and women, who shared a meal of abalone with the French explorers and, according to P\u00e9ron, provided \"the most striking example we had ever had of attention and reasoning among savage people\". P\u00e9ron would have disagreed, Boyce believes, with Windschuttle's claim that \"(t)raditional Aboriginal society placed no constraints on the women's sexual behaviour with men\", for he was repeatedly rebuffed when he tried to make physical contact with Aboriginal women. Baudin believed that no one on his ship had managed to have sexual relations with the women on Bruny Island. The behaviour adduced by Windschuttle from the other, late report by J. E. Calder (in 1829) is, for Boyce, \"self-evidently a product of the extensive disruption of traditional life that had occurred by then\". He concludes: \"Only someone who is totally blind to the impact of changing power relations, of declining choices, of the profound impact of cultural disintegration and recurring violence and abuse, let alone the simple imperatives of survival, could cite the unfolding tragedy at Bruny Island in this period as evidence for the sexual mores and domestic relations of pre-invasion Aboriginal society\".\nShayne Breen argues that Windschuttle's claim was a calculated guess. The picture is however complex. Evidence exists for some use of women as trading commodities. Some women were abducted by sealers, while others were traded by Aboriginal men in attempts to establish reciprocal relations with the sealers. Shayne concludes that: \"There is some evidence that Aboriginal men, especially along the northern and south eastern coastlines, used women as trading commodities. Some of this trading was culturally sanctioned, some of it was not. Sometimes women willingly participated, sometimes they did not. But no credible documentary evidence is available for widespread selling of women into prostitution. There is, however, strong evidence that the abduction of women by colonists was practised across the island for much of the period to 1820. Indeed, the 1830 Aborigines Committee found that the abduction of women was a major cause of attacks against colonists by Aborigines\".\nIn reply to Boyce, Windschuttle argued that Boyce could not have read the whole book, or even properly checked the index, which cited \"this very evidence\", i.e. the journals of early French and British explorers. With respect to Boyce's claims that Windschuttle was \"unaware\" of or \"ignored\" various sources, Windschuttle responded that Boyce's claims, based on what was, and was not, in \"Fabrication\"s bibliography, misinterpret the purpose of a bibliography. It listed only the sources referred to in the text and in his footnotes, and was not intended as an exhaustive list of every book or document that he had read regarding colonial Tasmania. Windschuttle argued that \"were Boyce more familiar with the ethnographic literature\", he would know the most telling evidence about the treatment of women comes not from explorers but the Aboriginal people themselves; from the recorded words of Aboriginal men, such as Woorrady, Montpeliatter, Mannalargenna and Nappelarteyer, and those of Aboriginal women such as Tencotemainner, Truganini and Walyer. Windschuttle did not claim that women had been sold \"into prostitution\" but that they were, as Breen admits, traded as commodities. Breen, Windschuttle replied, admits such trading and regards this as an admission of the \"cruelty of pre-contact indigenous culture\". For Windschuttle, Breen and others could say things that sicken no one, because they contextualise it within a model of British invasion and Aboriginal resistance, whereas he was taken to task for being \"pitiless\" for making what he argued was the same point, \"within a historical model of aboriginal accommodation to a comparatively nonviolent British settlement\".\nAttachment to land.\nIn reply to his critics, Windschuttle argued that Henry Reynolds \"wilfully misinterprets\" what he wrote, since his argument about Aboriginal concepts of land was based not on their words but on their deeds. \"It is not primarily an argument about Aboriginal language but about Aboriginal behaviour. I demonstrated the Tasmanian Aborigines did not act as if they demanded the exclusive usage of land. They had no concept of trespass\".\nWindschuttle argued that no word list records an Aboriginal term corresponding to the English word \"land\" in the sense that Europeans use it, \"as a two-dimensional space marked out with definite boundaries, which can be owned by individuals or groups, which can be inherited, which is preserved for the exclusive use of its owner, and which carries sanctions against trespassers\", but stated that \"they certainly did identify themselves with and regularly hunted and foraged on particular territories, known as their \"country\", which I openly acknowledge. They had obvious attachments to these territories. But they did not confine themselves to these regions nor did they deter other Aborigines from entering their own territory\". \"Members of the Big River tribe, for instance, annually visited Cape Grim in the north-west, Port Sorell on the north coast, Oyster Bay on the east coast, and Pittwater and Storm Bay in the south-east; that is, they regularly traversed most of the island\". \"The strongest evidence for this thesis is actually the history of white colonization and the timing of the conflict that did occur between blacks and whites. Most observers at the time agreed there was very little violence in Tasmania for the first twenty years after the British arrived. And the historians, except Lyndall Ryan, agree there were minimal hostilities before 1824. If the Aborigines had really felt the land was exclusively theirs, they would not have waited more than twenty years after the colonists arrived to do something about it\".\nHe contrasted this to the fiercely territorial Polynesian tribes of New Zealand, Tahiti and Tonga who fought off the British immediately. \"The fact that the Tasmanian Aborigines did not respond in the same way is not to say they didn't love their country or were thereby deficient as human beings. They simply had a different culture\".\nThe University of New England's Russell McDougall, in turn, has recently argued that Windschuttle's use of Henry Ling Roth's word-lists to deny an indigenous Tasmanian concept of \"land\" constitutes \"a wrong-headed attempt to undermine the legitimacy of Aboriginal land claims\", especially since Roth's lists made no claim to capture a linguistic totality, and Roth himself cited earlier testimonials to the fact that, though nomadic, the \"Tasmanians confined themselves within the boundaries of specific territories\". It was, McDougall argues, the pressing presence of colonisers that forced them to trespass and make war upon each other.\nCritical reception.\nThe appearance of the first volume provoked a lively polemical correspondence in the pages of \"The Australian\", with its \"agenda-setting capacity\". It was positively reviewed by Geoffrey Blainey, who called it \"one of the most important and devastating (books) written on Australian history in recent decades\", although Blainey notes that not every side-argument in the book convinced him and that his \"view is that the original Tasmanians were not as backward, mentally and culturally, as Windschuttle sometimes depicts them\". On Windschuttle's analysis of the \"fabrications\", Blainey wrote: \"While reading the long recital of these failings, I felt an initial sympathy towards the Australian and overseas historians who were under such intense scrutiny. But many of their errors, made on crucial matters, beggared belief. Moreover their exaggeration, gullibility, and what this book calls \"fabrication\" went on and on. Admittedly, if sometimes the historians' errors had chanced to favour the Aborigines, and sometimes they had happened to favour British settlers, a reader might sympathetically conclude that there was no bias amongst the historians but simply an infectious dose of inaccuracy. Most of the inaccuracies, however, are used to bolster the case for the deliberate destruction of the Aborigines.\" Claudio Veliz greeted it as \"one of the most important books of our time\". Peter Coleman, while speaking of its \"painstaking and devastating scholarship\", regretted the absence from Windschuttle's work of any \"sense of tragedy\".\nWithin a year Windschuttle's claims and research had produced a volume of rebuttal, namely \"Whitewash. On Keith Windschuttle's Fabrication of Aboriginal History\", an anthology edited and introduced by Robert Manne, professor of politics at La Trobe University, with contributions by Australian academics from a range of disciplines. Manne, who called Windschuttle's publication \"one of the most implausible, ignorant and pitiless books about Australian history written for many years\", summed up the case against Windschuttle's book, noting that its assessment of Aboriginal deaths is based on Plomley, even though Plomley denied that any estimate regarding such deaths could be made from the documentary record. Manne added further observations, to the effect: that \"a scrupulous conservative scholar\", H. A. Willis, using exactly the same sources as Windschuttle, instead came up with a figure of 188 violent deaths and another 145 rumoured deaths; that Windschuttle's method excludes deaths of Aborigines who were wounded, and later died; that all surviving Aborigines transported by Robinson to Flinders' Island bore marks of violence and gunshot wounds \"perpetrated on them by depraved whites\"; that Windschuttle cannot deny that between 1803 and 1834 almost all Tasmanian Aborigines died, and the only evidence for disease as a factor before 1829 rests on a single conversation recorded by James Bonwick, and that Aboriginal women who lived with sealers did not, however, die off from contact with bearers of foreign disease; that Windschuttle likened Aboriginal attacks on British settlers to \"modern-day junkies raiding service stations for money\", whereas both colonial records and modern historians speak of them as highly \"patriotic\", attached to their lands, and engaged in a veritable war to defend it from settlement; that by Windschuttle's own figures, the violent death rate of Aborigines in Tasmania in the 1820s must have been 360 times the murder rate in contemporary New York; that Windschuttle shows scarce familiarity with period books, citing only 3 of the 30 books published on Van Diemen's land for the period 1803\u20131834, and with one of them confuses the date of the first visit by the French with the publication date of the volume that recounted their expedition; that it is nonsensical to argue that a people who had wandered over an island and survived for 34,000 years had no attachment to their land; that Windschuttle finds no native words in 19th century wordlists for \"land\" to attest to such an attachment, when modern wordlists show 23 entries under \"country\". In turn, this provoked Melbourne writer and Objectivist John Dawson, to undertake a counter-rebuttal, \"Washout: On the academic response to The Fabrication of Aboriginal History\" in which he argues that \"Whitewash\" leaves Windschuttle's claims and research unrefuted.\nIn their reviews, Australian specialists in both Aboriginal and indigenous peoples' history were generally far less impressed than those who praised the book, which included Geoffrey Blainey, Claudio Veliz and Peter Coleman.\n\"The Fabrication of Aboriginal History, Volume Three, The Stolen Generations 1881\u20132008\".\nPublished in 2009, the argument of this book is that the Stolen Generations is a myth.\nKey elements of the story of the Stolen Generations are that children of Aboriginal descent were forcibly removed from their families and their culture. It is alleged that the children were removed as young as possible so that they could be raised to be ignorant of their culture and people and that the ultimate intent was to end the existence of the Aborigines as a distinct people. It was also alleged that, as a part of this policy, parents were deliberately prevented from maintaining contact with their children. Windschuttle cited the words of the principal historian of the Stolen Generations, Peter Read: \"Welfare officers, removing children solely because they were Aboriginal, intended and arranged that they should lose their Aboriginality, and that they never return home\".\nWindschuttle argued that his analysis of the records shows that Aboriginal children \"were never removed from their families in order to put an end to Aboriginality or, indeed, to serve any improper government policy or program\". He argued that \"until the term stolen generations first appeared in 1981, there had been no popular tradition among Aboriginal people that employed either the term or the concept\". In 1981, a \"then unknown white postgraduate history student, Peter Read\" wrote, \"in the course of just one day\", a twenty-page pamphlet to make the case. \"He alone was granted the vision denied to all who came before him\".\nWindschuttle argued that Read's \"version of events was deeply comforting\". \"Mothers had not given their children away, fathers had not left their children destitute or deserted their families or been so consumed by alcohol they left them vulnerable to sexual predators\"... \"Aborigines could suddenly identify as morally innocent victims of a terrible injustice. Their problems could all be blamed on faceless white bureaucrats driven by racism. Since Read created this interpretation, it has come to be believed by most Aboriginal people in Australia.\"\nWith regard to the Human Rights Commission investigation into the Stolen Generations and their 1997 report entitled \"Bringing Them Home\", he wrote: \"The empirical underpinnings of \"Bringing Them Home\" derived largely from the work of white academic historians. The Human Rights Commission did no serious research of its own into the primary historical sources. Co-authors Ronald Wilson and Mick Dodson also declined to hear any evidence that might have contradicted their preferred interpretation. They did not call witnesses from many of the still-living public officials responsible for child removal to hear or test their reasons for their policies and practices. The commission's only original contribution was to solicit the testimony of 535 Aboriginal people who had been removed from their parents and who spoke about their own experiences. While many of these stories were completely believable in what they said about what happened and how they felt, it is nonetheless true that when these witnesses were children they were not in a position to comprehend the question at the centre of the accusation of genocide, the motives of government policy makers\".\nHe argued that only a small number of children were actually removed (approximately 8,250 in the period 1880 to 1971), far less than the tens of thousands claimed, and that most of the removed children had been orphaned or were abandoned, destitute, neglected or subjected to various forms of exploitation and abuse. These removals were based on traditional grounds of child welfare. He argued that his analysis of welfare policy shows that none of the policies that allowed the removal of Aboriginal children were unique to Aborigines and that the evidence shows they were removed for the same child welfare reasons as white children who were in similar circumstances. \"A significant number of other children were voluntarily placed in institutions by Aboriginal parents to give them an education and a better chance in life\".\nWindschuttle stated that, in Western Australia, the records indicate that the majority of the children who are claimed to have been removed and placed in state Aboriginal settlements, went to those settlements with their destitute parents.\nWindschuttle argued that the evidence shows that the claims that parents were deliberately prevented from maintaining contact with their children and that the children were prevented from returning home are falsehoods. In New South Wales, for example, the relevant government board not only allowed parents to visit their children in the Aborigines Protection Board Children's Homes, it provided them with train fare and a daily living allowance to enable them to do so. Windschuttle stated that the records show that a majority of children removed in New South Wales returned either to their families or to their Aboriginal communities.\nWindschuttle states that in New South Wales, Aboriginal children were placed in apprenticeships to enable them to acquire the skills to earn a living and be independent of welfare in a program that \"was a replica of measures that had already been applied to white children in welfare institutions in New South Wales for several decades, and to poor English children for several centuries before that\". When Aboriginal children finished their apprenticeships they were free to go wherever they pleased including back to their original homes, permanently or for social visits.\nWith respect to the testing of the claims in court, Windschuttle wrote: \"... when they tested specific policies before the Federal Court, and when they argued the general intentions of the parliaments and legislators before the High Court, the historians and political activists who invented the notion of the Stolen Generations proved incapable of substantiating their case. As far as Australia's highest courts are concerned, the central hypothesis of the Stolen Generations is legally extinct\"... \"The only legal cases with any potential credibility would be those made by individuals such as Bruce Trevorrow, who was unlawfully removed from his family and suffered badly as a result\". However in the Trevorrow case, Windschuttle argued that the decision shows \"that the actions of the Aborigines Protection Board in placing Bruce in foster care without his parents' agreement was actually illegal at the time\" and not the result of a policy of removal but rather the illegal actions of welfare officials who believed, rightly or wrongly, that Bruce Trevorrow was neglected and that his health and life would be in danger if they returned him to his mother. The fact that Bruce Trevorrow's siblings were never removed is an indicator that there was no such policy and that welfare officials were not empowered to remove Aboriginal children on racial grounds.\nFuture volumes.\nIn April 2010, Windschuttle announced that the two remaining books in the series, Volume Two on the Colonial Frontier from 1788 onwards, and Volume Four on the History Wars, originally projected for publication in 2003 and 2004, would be published at a date yet to be announced. In December 2013, Windschuttle advised that he hoped to have Volume Two published \"in time to take its place in the discussions about our past during the Anzac Centenary in April 2015\".\nAt his death, neither Volume 2 nor Volume 4 had appeared, and no revised publication schedule has been announced. The completion of these projects now seems unlikely.\n2009 \"Quadrant\" hoax.\nIn January 2009, Windschuttle was hoaxed into publishing an article in \"Quadrant\". The stated aim of the hoax was to expose Windschuttle's purported right-wing bias by proving he would publish an inaccurate article and not check its footnotes or authenticity if it met his preconceptions. An author using the pseudonym \"biotechnologist Dr Sharon Gould\" submitted an article claiming that CSIRO had planned to produce food crops engineered with human genes. However, \"Gould\" revealed that she had regarded the article as an Alan Sokal-style hoax, referring to an instance in which writings described as obvious scientific nonsense were submitted to and accepted by an academic journal. Based on the reporter's intimate knowledge of the hoax and what he described as her \"triumphant\" tone when disclosing the hoax to him, Windschuttle accused the online publication \"Crikey\" of being involved in the hoax, a claim \"Crikey\" denied. Two days later, Crikey revealed that \"Gould\" was in fact the writer, editor and activist Katherine Wilson. Wilson agreed to being named by \"Crikey\", as her name had already appeared in online speculation and it seemed likely that her identity was about to be revealed by other journalists.\nReporters Kelly Burke and Julie Robotham note that \"the projects cited by 'Gould' as having been dumped by the organisation [CSIRO] are not in themselves implausible, and similar technologies are in active development. Human vaccines against diseases including hepatitis B, respiratory syncytial virus and Norwalk virus have been genetically engineered into crops as diverse as lettuce, potato and corn, and shown to provoke an immune response in humans.\" Gould also suggests the CSIRO abandoned research into the creation of dairy cattle capable of producing non-allergenic milk for lactose-intolerant infants and a genetically engineered mosquito that could stimulate antibodies against malaria in humans who were bitten, mitigating against \"[sic]\" the spread of the disease. Both ideas are under serious scientific study by research groups around the world.\nThe hoax elements of the article published in \"Quadrant\" were that the CSIRO had planned such research, that they had abandoned it because of perceived public moral or ethical objections and that evidence of this was \"buried\" in footnotes to an article in a scientific journal and in two annual reports of the CSIRO, the relevant report years being unspecified. Windschuttle stated: \"A real hoax, like that of Alan Sokal and Ern Malley, is designed to expose editors who are pretentious, ignorant or at least over-enthusiastic about certain subjects. The technique is to submit obvious nonsense for publication in order to expose the editor's ignorance of the topic. A real hoax defeats its purpose if it largely relies upon real issues, real people and real publications for its content. All of the latter is true of what \"Sharon Gould\" wrote. Indeed, the overwhelming majority of the content of her article is both factually true and well-based on the sources she cites.\"\nCampaign on Cardinal Pell case.\nDuring the trial and imprisonment of Cardinal George Pell in 2019\u201320 on charges of sexual abuse of a minor, Windschuttle led a campaign in \"Quadrant\" defending Pell's innocence. After Pell's acquittal by the High Court of Australia, Windschuttle published a book, \"The Persecution of George Pell\", arguing that Pell had faced a concerted campaign by Victorian police, judiciary and victims' advocates to convict him on flimsy evidence."}
{"id": "708644", "revid": "10951369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708644", "title": "Robert Dickson", "text": "Robert, Rob, or Bobby Dickson may refer to:"}
{"id": "708645", "revid": "29695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708645", "title": "Shelley versus Kraemer", "text": ""}
{"id": "708647", "revid": "22164567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708647", "title": "Barbara Roberts", "text": "Barbara Kay Roberts (n\u00e9e Hughey; born December 21, 1936) is an American politician from the state of Oregon. A native of the state, she served as the 34th Governor of Oregon from 1991 to 1995. She was the first woman elected to serve as Oregon governor, and the only woman elected to that office until 2016. A Democrat, Roberts was also the first woman to serve as majority leader in the Oregon House of Representatives. She also won two terms as Oregon Secretary of State, and served in local and county government in Portland. Roberts was married to Oregon state Sen. Frank L. Roberts from 1974 until his death in 1993. From February 2011 until January 2013, she served on the council of Metro, the regional government in the Portland metropolitan area.\nEarly life.\nRoberts was born Barbara Kay Hughey on December 21, 1936, in Corvallis, Oregon, to Bob and Carmen Murray Hughey. Her father, a millworker, was a descendant of Oregon Trail pioneers. The Hugheys' second daughter Pat was born a few years later and then they moved to Los Angeles, California in 1940 where her father worked as a machinist. Following World War II, the Hugheys returned to Oregon, settling in Gold Creek in Yamhill County in 1945, and then finally in Sheridan.\nIn 1954, she married her high-school sweetheart Neal Sanders, graduating the following year from Sheridan High School. The couple moved to Texas, where they had two children, Mike and Mark, before returning to Oregon several years later, settling in Portland where she attended Portland State University from 1961 to 1964.\nWith her older son, Mike, diagnosed in 1962 as \"severely emotionally disturbed\" (later identified as autism), she became an advocate for special-needs children. In 1971, she successfully lobbied the Oregon State Legislature to require public schools to guarantee educational rights to these children. In 1972, her marriage to Neal ended in divorce.\nPolitical career.\nIn 1973, she was elected to Parkrose School Board and, later, to the Mount Hood Community College board. In 1974, she married Oregon state representative and later state senator Frank L. Roberts, who became her political mentor. In 1980, she was elected to the Oregon House of Representatives as a Democrat, was re-elected in 1982. Her Democratic colleagues chose her as House Majority Leader, Oregon's first woman to hold that post.\nSecretary of State.\nIn 1984, Roberts was elected as Oregon Secretary of State, the first Democrat elected to that post in over 100 years. She was re-elected in 1988. Her significant achievements as Secretary of State include election-reform legislation, the construction of a new state archives building, and broader audit powers for the Secretary of State. The Portland Gay Men's Chorus sang at her inauguration. It is widely believed that this was the first time that a gay-identified chorus sang for the inauguration of a statewide elected official of any state. During her second term, Roberts attended an executive program at the Harvard Kennedy School at Harvard University.\nGovernor.\nDemocratic Gov. Neil Goldschmidt announced that he would not seek a second term as governor in 1990. Roberts, halfway through her second term as secretary of state, announced she would run for governor. She ran unopposed in the Democratic primary and went on to defeat Republican Attorney General David B. Frohnmayer and Independent Al Mobley in the November general election.\nRoberts became the first woman elected Governor of Oregon.\nDuring that same election, voters passed Ballot Measure 5, which established constitutional limits on property-tax rates.\nDuring her term as governor, Roberts worked with the Clinton administration to secure federal waivers and funding for the Oregon Health Plan. She also helped to increase the number of children in the Head Start Program, secured financing for additional units of affordable housing, and developed programs to help move Oregonians from welfare to the workplace. The Roberts administration was known for its strong support of gay rights and appointed women to positions in state government.\nHer husband, Frank L. Roberts, died in 1993 from prostate cancer while she was still governor. After his death, Barbara Roberts wrote the book \"\".\nThere were several factors that were responsible for Roberts' decision not to seek re-election in 1994. The leading cause was to process the loss of her husband.\nLater life and family.\nSoon after she left office, Roberts accepted a position at the Harvard Kennedy School at Harvard University as director of the Harvard Program for Senior Executives in State and Local Government and later as a senior fellow to the Women and Public Policy Program. In 1998, Roberts joined Portland State University's Hatfield School of Government's Executive Leadership Institute as Associate Director of Leadership Development.\nRoberts has continued her community service, sitting on the board of trustees for several major nonprofit organizations, including the Oregon Hospice Association, the Human Rights Campaign, and the advisory council of Oregon's Compassion in Dying. She has also maintained an active public speaking career, addressing issues of death and grieving, leadership, women in politics, and environmental stewardship. Roberts has two sons, Mike and Mark Sanders, and two grandchildren, Robert M. Sanders and Kaitlin Sanders.\nRoberts High School in Salem, Oregon, was named after her in 1996.\nReturn to government service.\nIn early 2011, Roberts returned to government service, as a member of the six-person Metro council, the Portland metropolitan area's elected regional government, after Robert Liberty resigned in January from his position as councillor representing Metro district 6. Roberts was appointed to the council in February to fill the remainder (about 22 months) of Liberty's four-year term, by a vote of the council. Although Metro council positions are publicly elected offices, an election is not required when filling a council vacancy in mid-term. She was sworn in on February 24, 2011. Metro district 6 includes portions of Northeast, Southeast and Southwest Portland. She indicated that she would not be a candidate for the position when it next came due for election, in May 2012, and Bob Stacey was elected to the district 6 seat at that time. Roberts' council term ended, and Stacey succeeded her, in January 2013."}
{"id": "708650", "revid": "29019812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708650", "title": "Luis Ugueto", "text": "Luis Enrique Ugueto [oo-geh-to] (born February 15, 1979) is a Venezuelan former Major League Baseball second baseman and switch-hitter who played for the Seattle Mariners in 2002 and 2003.\nOriginally signed by the Florida Marlins as an amateur free agent in 1996, he was drafted by the Pittsburgh Pirates from Florida in the 2001 Rule 5 draft, and was traded to the Mariners for cash the same day. Finally, he made his debut with the Mariners on April 3, 2002.\nUgueto was a promising young infielder with a strong arm and blistering speed on the bases. What Seattle hoped would develop was his bat and his overall feel for the game, especially defensively, at the major league level. In two seasons as a backup with the Mariners, Ugueto batted .214 with one home run and two RBI in 74 games.\nUgueto signed with the Kansas City Royals prior to the 2005 season and spent the season with the Royals' top minor league club, the Omaha Royals. While with Omaha, he was suspended twice in 2005 for violating baseball's steroid policy and suspended for 15 and 30 games, respectively. Ugueto was released by the Royals after the second violation.\nAfter missing the entire 2006 season, Ugueto played with the Minnesota Twins minor league team, the Fort Myers Miracle during the 2007 season. In 2008, he played in Italy's Serie A1 for the Caff\u00e8 Danesi Nettuno and hit .289. He also shortly played for the Laredo Broncos.\nExternal links.\n, or Retrosheet"}
{"id": "708651", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708651", "title": "Dom Moraes", "text": "Dominic Francis \"Dom\" Moraes (19 July 1938 \u2013 2 June 2004) was an Indian writer and poet who published nearly 30 books in English. He is widely seen as a foundational figure in Indian English literature. His poems are a meaningful and substantial contribution to Indian and World literature.\nEarly life.\nDominic Francis Moraes was born in Bombay, British India to Beryl and Frank Moraes, former editor of \"The Times of India\" and later \"The Indian Express\". He had a tormented relationship with his mother Beryl, who had been confined to a mental asylum since his childhood. His aunt was the historian Teresa Albuquerque. He attended the city's St. Mary's School, and then left for England to enroll at Jesus College, Oxford.\nMoraes spent eight years in Britain (in London and Oxford), New York City, Hong Kong, Delhi and Bombay.\nCareer.\nDavid Archer published Moraes' first collection of poems, \"A Beginning\", in 1957. When he was 19, still an undergraduate, he became the first Indian to win the Hawthornden Prize and was presented with \u00a3100 and a silver medal by Lord David Cecil at the Arts Council of Britain on 10 July 1958.\nHe edited magazines in London, Hong Kong and New York. He became the editor of \"The Asia Magazine\" in 1971. He scripted and partially directed over 20 television documentaries for the BBC and ITV. He was a war correspondent in Algeria, Israel and Vietnam. In 1976 he joined the United Nations.\nMoraes conducted one of the first interviews of the Dalai Lama after the Tibetan spiritual leader fled to India in 1959. The Dalai Lama was then 23 and Moraes, 20.\nLater life and death.\nIn 1961\u201362 he was one of the very few public Indian figures to strongly criticize the Indian Army takeover of Goa, land of his forefathers \u2013 Daman and Diu from Portuguese India. He tore up his Indian passport on TV in protest. He was later allowed back in the country.\nWhen the Gujarat riots erupted in 2002, with their heavy toll of Muslim dead, Moraes left for Ahmedabad the minute the news came through, saying that since he was a Catholic, Muslims would not see him as an enemy. Even though he was physically in considerable pain by then, he was one of the first on the scene.\nMoraes ended his writing career, writing books in collaboration with Sarayu Srivatsa.\nHe had a lifelong battle with alcoholism. Moraes suffered from cancer, but refused treatment and died from a heart attack in Bandra, Mumbai. He was buried in the city's Sewri Cemetery. Many of Dom's old friends and publishers attended the memorial service in Odcombe. A headstone in yellow Jaisalmer stone lies embedded in the front lawn of the Church of St Peter and St Paul to mark the service.\nPersonal life.\nIn 1956, aged 18, he was courted by Audrey Wendy Abbott who later changed her name to Henrietta. They married in 1961. He left her, according to his close friends in London, but did not divorce her. He had a son with his second wife Judith, whom he divorced, and returned to India in 1968. In 1969, he married the Indian actress Leela Naidu. Their marriage ended in a separation. For the last 13 years of his life he lived with Sarayu Srivatsa, with whom he co-authored two books."}
{"id": "708654", "revid": "29539620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708654", "title": "Ratnagiri", "text": "Ratnagiri (IAST:Ratn\u0101gir\u012b ; ]) is a port city on the Arabian Sea coast in Ratnagiri District in southwestern Maharashtra, India. The district is part of the Konkan division of Maharashtra. The city is known for the Hapus or Alphonso mangoes and is colloquially referred to as the Mango City. Ratnagiri is the birthplace of Indian independence activist Lokmanya Tilak. Thibaw, the last king of Burma, alongside his consort Supayalat and two infant daughters were exiled to a two-storied brick mansion in Ratnagiri. The building is now known as Thibaw Palace.\nGeography.\nRatnagiri is located at . It has an average elevation of 11\u00a0meters (36\u00a0feet). The Sahyadri mountains border Ratnagiri to the east.\nClimate.\nThe climate is a tropical monsoon climate (Koppen: Am), with the monsoon providing heavy rain between June and October, with the rest of the year warm and dry, devoid of any rainfall.\nTransport.\nRoad\nRatnagiri is well connected to the other parts of the state and country by National Highways &amp; State Highways. National Highways NH 66 (Panvel \u2013 Edapally), NH 166 (Ratnagiri \u2013 Nagpur) and Coastal Highway (Rewas \u2013 Reddy) pass through the city. MSRTC operates bus services to Mumbai, Thane, Vasai, Nala Sopara, Kalyan, Bhiwandi, Pune, Panaji, Nanded, Latur, Tuljapur, Akkalkot, Ambajogai, Beed, Kolhapur, Gargoti, Gadhinglaj, Nrushimhawadi, Ichalkaranji, Sangli, Miraj, Tasgaon, Jat, Islampur, Satara, Belgaum, Hubli, Bijapur and other major towns of the state. North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation also operates buses from Belgaum, Bijapur, Gulbarga, Indi, Muddebihal, Sindgi, Athani, Jevargi and Talikota. Several private buses regularly ply for Mumbai and Pune and a few for Kolhapur, Bijapur.\nRailways\nRatnagiri is a major Railhead on Konkan Railway route. Ratnagiri is also one of the two divisions of Konkan Railway Corporation. The city is well connected to Mumbai, New Delhi, Amritsar, Chandigarh, Dehradun, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Bhuj, Indore, Jabalpur, Patna, Nagpur, Pune, Margao, Mangalore, Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram, Kanyakumari, Coimbatore and other major towns of the country. Every train passing through the city halts here. Connectivity to western Maharashtra is proposed through Vaibhavwadi Road \u2013 Kolhapur route.\nCollector and District Magistrate.\nM. Devender Singh (IAS: MH2011) joined as Collector and District Magistrate of Ratnagiri on 1 October 2022 after the previous Collector and District Magistrate B.N Patil was transferred.\nPolitical Leadership.\nThe Ratnagiri Municipality was established in 1876. The Office of the President of the Council was occupied by Mr. Pradeep Salvi of the Shivsena, before it got dismissed due to the completion of the Term. Currently, the Office of the Council President remains vacant with the Administrator and the Chief Officer being in charge of the Municipal Administration.\nRatnagiri (Vidhan Sabha constituency):\nUday Samant (Shiv Sena), The Incumbent Cabinet Minister of Industries Uday Samant Government of Maharashtra represents the Ratnagiri constituency in State Assembly since 2004, and has been appointed as the Guardian Minister of the Ratnagiri. \nRatnagiri\u2013Sindhudurg (Lok Sabha constituency):\nNarayan Rane (BJP) represents the Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg constituency in Lok Sabha, lower house of the parliament since 2024.\nMarine Biological Research Station.\nThe Maharashtra Government under the Department of Fisheries established the Marine Biological Research Station (MBRS) in 1958 at Ratnagiri, which is presently attached with Dr. Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli, Dist.: Ratnagiri. The research station has a 10-hectare area as a field facility including a three-storied building at the main campus, a well-equipped aquarium and museum, a modernized brackish water fish farm, a Mechanized Fishing and Research Vessel, Seed Production facilities, and various laboratories at its disposal.\nThe Marine Biological Research Station, Ratnagiri is one of the premier institutes, especially in the South Konkan Coastal Fisheries Zone, having a mandate for the development of fish production technologies, transferring the technologies to fish culturists, entrepreneurs, and the industry, and generating professionally trained manpower in fish culture.\n3D Planetarium.\nChief Minister Eknath Shinde inaugurated a 3D Planetarium on the 16th of December, 2022 in Ratnagiri. \nThis planetarium is the first active 3D planetarium in Maharashtra and fifth nationally.\nHistory.\nRatnagiri, located along the Konkan coast of Maharashtra, has a rich and diverse history that dates back centuries. It served as the administrative capital under the Sultanate of Bijapur, with its strategic location making it an important military and trade center. The Ratnadurg Fort, originally built by the Bijapur Sultanate, was reconstructed by Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in 1670, turning it into a key coastal defense post.\nIn 1731, Ratnagiri came under the control of the Kingdom of Satara, marking the beginning of its integration into the Maratha Empire. Following the Third Anglo-Maratha War, the British annexed Ratnagiri to British India in 1818, further embedding it into the colonial structure.\nRatnagiri holds significant cultural importance as the birthplace of Indian freedom fighter Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, born on 23 July 1856. Tilak, an influential leader in India\u2019s struggle for independence, moved to Pune with his family at the age of 10. His early years in Ratnagiri influenced his later revolutionary thoughts.\nThe city was also a place of exile for King Thibaw of Burma after the British Empire annexed his country. In 1886, King Thibaw, along with his family, was exiled to Ratnagiri, where he lived the rest of his life under British surveillance. His residence, the Thibaw Palace, still stands as a symbol of this chapter in the city\u2019s history.\nFurthermore, Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, was confined in Ratnagiri from 1921 to 1935, first in prison and then under local confinement. His time in Ratnagiri played a pivotal role in shaping his revolutionary ideologies.\nToday, Ratnagiri is known not only for its historical significance but also for its agricultural contributions, especially the famous Alphonso mangoes, and its growing role as a cultural and educational hub in Maharashtra."}
{"id": "708655", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708655", "title": "Foil bearings", "text": ""}
{"id": "708656", "revid": "49153468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708656", "title": "Iranian rial", "text": "The rial (; symbol: ; abbreviation: Rl (singular) and Rls (plural) or IR in Latin; ISO code: IRR) is the official currency of Iran. It is subdivided into 100 dinars, but due to the rial's low purchasing power, the dinar is not practically used.\nAlthough there is no official symbol for the currency, the Iranian standard ISIRI 820 defined a symbol for use on typewriters (mentioning that it is an invention of the standards committee itself), and the two Iranian standards ISIRI 2900 and ISIRI 3342 define a character code to be used for it. The Unicode Standard also has a compatibility character defined .\nHistory.\nThe rial was first introduced in 1798 as a coin worth 1,250 dinars or one-eighth of a \"toman\". In 1825, the rial ceased to be issued, with the qiran subdivided into 20 shahi or 1,000 dinars and was worth one-tenth of a toman, being issued as part of a decimal system. The rial replaced the qiran at par in 1932, subdivided into 100 new dinars.\nPrior to decimalisation in 1932, these coins and currencies were used, and some of these terms still have wide usage in Iranian languages and proverbs:\nExchange rate.\nIn 1932, the rial was pegged to sterling at a rate of \u00a31 = Rls 59.75. The exchange rate was \u00a31 = Rls 80.25 in 1936, \u00a31 = Rls 64.350 in 1939, \u00a31 = Rls 68.8 in 1940, \u00a31 = Rls 141 in 1941 and \u00a31 = Rls 129 in 1942. In 1945, the rial was pegged to the U.S. dollar at USD 1 = Rls 32.25. The rate was US$1 = Rls 75.75 in 1957. Iran did not follow the dollar's currency devaluation in 1973, leading to a new peg of USD 1 = Rls 68.725. The dollar peg was dropped in 1975.\nIn 1979, 70 Rls equalled one U.S. dollar. The value of the rial declined precipitously after the Islamic Revolution because of capital flight from the country. A study estimated that the capital flight from Iran shortly before and after the revolution in the range of $30 to $40 billion. Whereas on March 15, 1978, Rls\u00a071.46 equalled $1, in July 1999, $1 equalled Rls\u00a09,430.\nInjecting sudden foreign exchange revenues in the economic system forms the phenomenon of \"Dutch disease\" in a country. There are two main consequences for a country with Dutch disease: loss of price competitiveness in its production goods, and hence the exports of those goods; and an increase in imports. Both cases were clearly visible in Iran.\nAlthough described as an (interbank) \"market rate\", the value of the Iranian rial is tightly controlled by the central bank. The state ownership of oil export earnings and its large reserves, supervision of letters of credit, together with current \u2013 and capital outflow account \u2013 outflows allows management of demand. The central bank has allowed the rial to weaken in nominal terms (4.6% on average in 2009) in order to support the competitiveness of non-oil exports.\nThere is an active black market in foreign exchange, but the development of the TSE rate and the ready availability of foreign exchange during 2000 narrowed the differential to as little as IR100 in mid-2000. However, the spread increased again in September 2010 because channels for transferring foreign currency to and from Iran being blocked because of international sanctions.\nMonetary policy is facilitated by a network of 50 Iranian-run forex dealers in Iran, the rest of the Middle East and Europe. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\" and dealers, the Iranian government was selling US$250\u00a0million daily to keep the rial exchange rate against the US dollar between Rls\u00a09,700 and Rls\u00a09,900 in 2009. At times (before the devaluation of the rial in 2013) the authorities weakened the national currency intentionally by withholding the supply of hard currency to earn more rial-denominated income, usually at times when the government faced a budget deficit.\nThe widening of the gap between official and unofficial exchange rates stood at over 20% in November 2011. This shows the correlation between the value of foreign currencies and the domestic inflationary environment.\nThe unofficial rial to US dollar rate underwent severe fluctuations in January 2012 (the rial losing 50% of its value in a few days, following new international sanctions against the CBI), eventually settling at Rls\u00a017,000 at the end of the period. Besides all the bad effects on the economy in general, this had the effect of boosting the competitiveness of Iran's domestic industries abroad. Following President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's decision to liberalize the mechanism by which bank interest rates are set (granting banks the authority to raise interest rates to 21%), CBI announced that it would be fixing the official rate of the rial against the dollar at Rls\u00a012,260 from January 28, 2012, and seek to meet all demand for foreign currency through banks.\nBy June 2020, the Iranian rial had fallen nearly five-fold since the beginning of 2018, contributing to the record inflation. Reason cited by analysts is the fact that the government has been printing money in excess of the economic growth.\nThe rial's exchange rate dropped by 29% after the nationwide protests that began on September 16, 2022, following the death of Mahsa Amini, a 22 year old Kurdish-Iranian woman in police custody. Following the regional tension towards the end of 2024, the fall of Bashar al-Assad's regime in Syria, Donald Trump winning the US presidential election and ongoing economic factors brought the rial to its lowest value at the end of 2024, 820,500 to 1 US dollar.\nThe rial exchange rate started 2025 at 817,500 rials to the US dollar, and declined all year with annualized inflation rate never lower than 36.4%, rising to 42% late in the year. The exchange rate dropped all year, including following the government of Israel making air strikes on Iran in June.\nIn December 2025, the rial dropped to a record low of 1.42 million rials to the US dollar, resulting in the resignation of the Governor of the Central Bank of Iran Mohammad Reza Farzin on 29 December 2025, who took office in December 2022 with the rial trading at 430,000 to the dollar. The collapse in the exchange rate was one of the causes of the 2025\u20132026 Iranian protests.\n\"Pre-unification, rials per US dollar:\"\nExchange rate system.\nUntil 2002, Iran's exchange rate system was based on a multi-layered system, where state and para-state enterprises benefited from the \"preferred or official rate\" (Rls\u00a01,750 for US$1) while the private sector paid the \"market rate\" (Rls\u00a08,000 for US$1), hence creating an unequal competition environment. The \"official rate\" applied to oil and gas export receipts, imports of essential goods and services, and repayment of external debt. The \"export rate\", fixed at Rls\u00a03,000 per dollar since May 1995, applied to all other trade transactions, but mainly to capital goods imports of public enterprises.\nIn 1998, in order to ease pressure on exporters, the central bank introduced a currency certificate system allowing exporters to trade certificates for hard currency on the Tehran Stock Exchange, thus creating a floating value for the rial known as the \"TSE rate\" or \"market rate\". This method finally replaced the fixed \"export rate\" (Rls\u00a03,000:US$1) in March 2000, and has since held steady at some Rls\u00a08,500:US$1.\nIn March 2002, the multi-tiered system was replaced by a unified, market-driven exchange rate. In 2002 the \"official rate\" a/k/a \"preferred rate\" (Rls\u00a01,752:US$1) was abolished, and the TSE rate became the basis for the new unified foreign-exchange regime. Iran's Central Bank channels more than 90 per cent of hard currency into the local market (2012).\nForex bourse.\nIn a move interpreted as aiming at unifying currency exchange rates, on September 24, 2012, the government launched a foreign exchange centre, that would provide importers of some basic goods with foreign exchanges, at a rate about 2% cheaper than the open market rate on a given day. This project was cancelled following the strong depreciation of the rial between 2012 and 2013 but was put on the agenda again in 2015 for use in the reunification of forex rates (planned for 2017) and the introduction of currency derivatives. through the Iran Mercantile Exchange.\nIn addition to banks, \"exchange shops\" are also available for limited transactions. Exchange shops must operate under the licenses issued by Central Bank of Iran. Foreign currencies can be bought or sold at these exchange shops.\nExchange restriction.\nExchange restriction arises from limitations on the transferability of rial profits\nfrom certain investments under the Foreign Investment Promotion and Protection Act and from limitations on other investment-related current international payments under this act.\nMultiple currency practices.\nIn 2010, the cases of multiple currency practices arose from the following:\nUntil 2012, the dollar had different exchange rates, depending on where you are buying your currency\nIn 2012, Bank Markazi classified a long list of goods into categories with priorities 1 through 10, leaving it to the parallel market to take of all other needs. Priorities 1 and 2 are food and medicine, receiving foreign exchange at the official rate of Rls\u00a012,260 per dollar, followed by other categories with lower priorities, which are mostly intermediate goods used in industrial production.\nRedenomination.\nBecause of the current low value of rial, and that people rarely use the term, redenomination or change of currency has been proposed a number of times since the late 1980s. The issue has re-emerged and been under discussion, as a result of issuance of larger banknotes in 2003. Opponents of redenomination are wary of more inflation resulting from psychological effects, and increase in velocity of money leading to more instabilities in the economy of Iran.\nOn April 12, 2007, the Economics Commission of the Parliament announced initiation of a statute in draft to change the currency, claiming redenominations had helped reduce inflation elsewhere, such as in Turkey. In 2008, an official at the Central Bank of Iran said the bank plans to slash four zeros off the rial and rename it the toman. The bank printed two new traveller's cheques, which function quite similar to a banknote, with values of Rls\u00a0500,000 and Rls\u00a01,000,000. However, they have the figures \"50\" (should read 50 thousand toman) and \"100\" (should read 100 thousand toman) written on their top right hand corners, respectively, which is seen as the first step toward a new currency.\nIn 2010, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced that Iran would remove three zeros (not the four that had been proposed) from its national currency as part of the economic reform plan.\nIn April 2011, it was reported that the Central Bank is working on a six-month redenomination project to cut four zeros from the national currency and replace old bank notes with new ones, similar to the revaluation of the Turkish lira in 2005.\nA website to poll the public on the redenomination plan was launched July 21, 2011; the public was allowed to vote on how many zeroes to cut and what the new currency's name should be. Preliminary results indicate that four zeroes would be cut (in line with the government's recommendation) and that the name will be changed to Parsi.\nIn 2016, the government announced its plan to end the official status of the rial, replacing it with the commonly used unit the \"toman\" (which represents 10 rials).\nIn July 2019, the Iranian government approved a bill to change the national currency from the rial to the toman with one toman equalling Rls\u00a010,000, a process which will reportedly cost $160 million. This proposal was approved by the Iranian parliament in May 2020. The changeover is likely to be phased over a period of up to two years.\nOn 5 October 2025, the Islamic Consultative Assembly voted in favor of a plan to redenominate Iran's currency. The new rial was made equal to 10,000 of the current rials and divided into 100 qirans. Both currencies would circulate in parallel for three years after the introduction of the redenominated currency.\nCoins.\nClassical rial.\nDuring the late 18th and early 19th century, silver coins were issued in denominations of , , and 1 rial.\nModern rial.\nThe first coins of the second rial currency, introduced in 1932, were in denominations of 1, 2, 5, 10 and 25 dinars, Rl\u00a0, Rl\u00a01, Rls\u00a02 and Rls\u00a05, with the Rls\u00a0 to Rls\u00a05 coins minted in silver. Gold coins denominated in \"pahlavi\" were also issued, initially valued at Rls\u00a0100. In 1944, the silver coinage was reduced in size, with the smallest silver coins being the Rls\u00a01 pieces. Minting of all denominations below 25 dinars ended in this year. In 1945, silver Rls\u00a010 coins were introduced. In 1953, silver coins ceased to be minted, with the smallest denomination now 50 dinars. Rls\u00a020 coins were introduced in 1972.\nAfter the Islamic Revolution, the coinage designs were changed to remove the Shah's effigy but the sizes and compositions were not immediately changed. 50 dinar coins were only minted in 1979 and Rls\u00a050 coins were introduced in 1980. In 1992, a new coinage was introduced with smaller Rls\u00a01, Rls\u00a05, Rls\u00a010 and Rls\u00a050 coins and new Rls\u00a0100 pieces. Rls\u00a0250 coins were introduced the following year. In 2004, the sizes of the Rls\u00a050, Rls\u00a0100 and Rls\u00a0250 coins were reduced and Rls\u00a0500 coins were introduced. New, smaller types of Rls\u00a0250 and Rls\u00a0500 were introduced in 2009, along with the new denomination of Rls\u00a01,000. Rls\u00a02,000 and Rls\u00a05,000 rial coins in 2010.\nDigital Rial.\nDigital Rial, or Iran's National Currency, is a type of currency according to a 2021 announcement of the Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Its release is based on the Modern Rial.\nBanknotes.\nIn 1932, notes were issued by the \"Bank Melli Iran\" in denominations of Rls\u00a05, Rls\u00a010, Rls\u00a020, Rls\u00a050, Rls\u00a0100 and Rls\u00a0500. Rls\u00a01,000 notes were introduced in 1935, followed by Rls\u00a0200 notes in 1951 and Rls\u00a05,000 and Rls\u00a010,000 in 1952. Rls\u00a05 notes were last issued in the 1940s, with Rls\u00a010 notes disappearing in the 1960s. In 1961, the Central Bank of Iran took over the issuance of paper money.\nIn 1979, after the Islamic revolution, Iranian banknotes featuring the Shah's face were counter-stamped with intricate designs to cover the Shah's face. The first regular issues of the Islamic Republic were in denominations of Rls\u00a0100, Rls\u00a0200, Rls\u00a0500, Rls\u00a01,000, Rls\u00a05,000 and Rls\u00a010,000. Rls\u00a02,000 notes were introduced in 1986.\nThey are issued by the Central Bank of Iran, each bearing the signature of the President of the Iranian Central Bank. The Rls\u00a0100, Rls\u00a0200 and Rls\u00a0500 banknotes are becoming increasingly uncommon; shopkeepers habitually give out small packages of gum in lieu of the last Rls\u00a0500 of change. For day to day means people will carry wads of Rls\u00a0100,000 notes.\nIntergenerational series (2019\u20132023).\nIn preparation for an upcoming redenomination whereby Rls\u00a010,000 will become one toman, notes of this series display the numerical value in tomans as well as rials (the latter with the trailing four zeros de-emphasized). Due to a shortage of paper currency, higher denominations have been issued as cheques rather than legal tender banknotes.\nIssuance of larger notes.\nPrinting banknotes larger than Rls\u00a010,000 was first proposed in 1989, and in 1992 the central bank asked for government permission to print Rls\u00a020,000, Rls\u00a050,000 and Rls\u00a0100,000 notes. This was not realized at that time, due to fears of inflation and counterfeiting. The Rls\u00a010,000 note remained the highest valued banknote for more than 50 years until 2005, when a Rls\u00a020,000 banknote was introduced and subsequently a Rls\u00a050,000 banknote was introduced with the subject being the Iranian nuclear energy program. The note was issued March 12. The note features a quote by the prophet Mohammed, translated as: \"Even if knowledge is at the Pleiades, the people from the land of Persia would attain it\". Banknotes currently in circulation are Rls\u00a0100, Rls\u00a0200, Rls\u00a0500, Rls\u00a01,000, Rls\u00a02,000, Rls\u00a05,000, Rls\u00a010,000, Rls\u00a020,000, Rls\u00a050,000 and Rls\u00a0100,000. After the death of Ruhollah Khomeini, his portrait was used on the obverse of Rls\u00a01,000 banknotes and greater.\nCash cheques.\nCurrently the highest valued legal tender banknote issued by the central bank is Rls\u00a0100,000 (about US$0.074 on Jan. 2, 2026). However Iran Cheques circulate freely and are treated as cash.\nThe central bank used to allow major state banks to print their own banknotes known as \"cash cheques\". They were a form of bearer teller's-cheque with fixed amounts, printed in the form of official banknotes. Once they were acquired from banks, they could function like cash for a year. Two forms of these banknotes were available. One known as \"Iran cheque\" could be cashed in any financial institution, while the other could be cashed at the issuing bank. They were printed in denominations of Rls\u00a0200,000, Rls\u00a0500,000, Rls\u00a01,000,000, Rls\u00a02,000,000 and Rls\u00a05,000,000.\nIn 2008, CBI revoked this privilege from banks, and currently issues its own Iran Cheques in denominations of Rls\u00a0500,000, Rls\u00a01,000,000, Rls\u00a02,000,000, and Rls\u00a05,000,000.\nPrinting.\nSecurity Paper Mill (called TAKAB) is a paper mill and a subsidiary of the Central Bank of Iran responsible for production of security papers, including those of the Iranian rial banknotes located in the city of Amol."}
{"id": "708657", "revid": "25046916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708657", "title": "Chip Tsao", "text": "Chip Tsao (born 17 August 1958), also known by his Chinese language pen name To Kit, is a multilingual Hong Kong\u2013based columnist, broadcaster, and writer. His writings are mostly in Chinese. He is well known for his sarcasm and wry sense of humour.\nFamily and education.\nTsao's family traces their roots back to Guangxi. His father was the vice chief editor of \"Ta Kung Pao,\" a leftwing newspaper in Hong Kong, whilst his mother was also an editor of the same paper. His maternal grandfather was a journalist of the \"Pearl River Daily\". He was raised in Hong Kong's Wanchai district, and began reading early in his life. Tsao attended Pui Kiu Middle School and later Lingnan Secondary School in Hong Kong. During this time, his writing was once published in \"The New Evening Post\". In 1983, he was awarded a BA in English and European Literature from the University of Warwick. Then he completed a Postgraduate Diploma in International Relations from the London School of Economics. He states that he never thought about becoming a writer in his youth, however, and that his parents discouraged him from this career because they felt it would be dangerous.\nTsao is married and has two children.\nCareer.\nTsao began his journalism career in the United Kingdom as a reporter for the BBC and Radio Television Hong Kong. Then, famous writer Jin Yong (Louis Cha) invited him to write a regular column for \"Ming Pao\" about his experiences living abroad. It was at this time that he began to use his pen name To Kit. The name of his column in Ming Pao,\"'The Golden Venture\", derives from the name of a vessel that took Chinese illegal immigrants to the United States in 1993. His first book, \"Alongside Thames\", was published in 1995.\nTsao later he joined a team of broadcasters to host a weekly current affairs programme on RTHK named 'Free as Wind' (). In September 2003, he switched to the Commercial Radio Hong Kong to host a similar daily radio entitled 'Summit' (, literally 'the Peak of Light').\nTsao currently writes for Apple Daily and HK Magazine. Pieces from his columns, such as Come On, James, have gone viral and become an internet sensation in several new forms of adaptations.\nTsao is not without his controversies. His status as a premier writer of Hong Kong is often challenged, one example being a piece by Rosetta Lui and Perry Lam in the December 2007 issue of \"Muse\": \"Some 15 or 20 years from now, the books of Chip Tsao... if they are talked about at all, will most probably be used as anecdotal evidence to illustrate how dumbed-down our city's culture has become since the 1997 return to Chinese sovereignty. His essays are always funny, sometimes lyrical but almost never ruminative.\"\nPolitical viewpoints.\nHong Kong politics.\nTsao first began writing about Hong Kong public affairs in a column for English-language newspaper \"Eastern Express\". He is often perceived as pro-British, and has been accused of looking down on China. But in a South China Morning Post interview in 2008, Tsao explained his position on China and denied that he was an anglophile, saying: \"I am critical of modern China but if people think criticising makes you a traitor, that\u2019s their problem. Some people say I\u2019m an Anglophile but I don\u2019t consider myself one. I just admire beautiful things and good values, and that includes Tibetan culture. There are bad things about the Brits too \u2013 they can be hypocrites and racists.\"\nAccusations of racism.\nTsao has faced various accusations of racism for his English-language writings. In October 2005, an article he wrote for the \"South China Morning Post\" entitled \"Have Hong Kong girls stopped looking for Mr White?\" sparked accusations that he promoted discrimination and was jealous of white men in Hong Kong. Tsao responded that he was merely being sarcastic and provocative, repeating themes which were often discussed in Chinese media, and accused his critics themselves of being racist and lacking the ability to \"read between the lines\".\nOn 27 March 2009, an article of Tsao's entitled \"The War at Home\" was published in the free \"HK Magazine\". In it, he wrote that the Philippines was unworthy of claiming the Spratly Islands from China because \"as a nation of servants, you don't flex your muscles at your master, from whom you earn most of your bread and butter.\" Many Filipinos decried his article as racist, discriminatory, and demeaning, and the Philippine government declared him an \"undesirable alien\" as a result. His writings provoked negative reactions from various Philippine legislators; Senator Pia Cayetano stated that \"instead of contributing to intelligent discussions on ways to resolve the Spratlys dispute, Tsao only succeeded in eliciting hatred and sowing more confusion not only among Filipinos but maybe even among his fellow Chinese who are not aware of the intricacies of the issue\", while Para\u00f1aque Congressman Roilo Golez refused to accept Tsao's apology for his article, and challenged him to a boxing match. On 30 March 2009, HK Magazine issued an apology for the offence Tsao's article had caused. The following day, Tsao subsequently admitted his wrongdoing and apologised to the Philippine government and its people in an interview aired over Hong Kong\u2019s ATV. He said, \"I realized that I had crossed the line. I now offer my public apology.\" He has also indicated, however, that the article was meant as satire, and that it \"was never intended to be insulting to the Filipino domestic workers.\"\nCriticism of #MeToo.\nIn 2017, Tsao posted on Facebook mocking the Me Too movement one day after the revelation from Hong Kong athlete Lui Lai Yiu that she was sexually assaulted by a former coach. Tsao wrote that he was touched on the face without his consent by a female teacher when he was in kindergarten and now he realised that he was \"one of the victims of low-end sex abuse\". \"Thanks to the Facebook generation, by simply attaching a selfie, anyone can become a Harvey Weinstein or a Kevin Spacey,\" he added. Some praised him for his \"good sense of humour\" and recognizing that any man could be open to accusations over past inappropriate behaviour of which they may or may not be guilty. More including the Equal Opportunities Commission and the Association Concerning Sexual Violence Against Women criticised him for inappropriate analogy and ignorance on sexual violence.\nWorks.\nTsao's work, both on radio and in his columns, concentrates on the following subjects:\nPublications.\nMajor works by Chip Tsao:"}
{"id": "708658", "revid": "49946366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708658", "title": "Ratnagiri district", "text": "Ratnagiri district (Marathi pronunciation: ]) is a district in the state of Maharashtra, India. The administrative headquarter of the district is located in the town of Ratnagiri. The district is 11.34% urban. The district is bounded by the Arabian Sea to the west,Sindhudurg district to the south, Raigad district to the north and Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts to the east. This district is part of Konkan division.\nHistory.\nFrom pre-Christian times until 1312, the area \u2013 like the entire region \u2013 was ruled by various Buddhist and Hindu rulers. The first state known by name was the Mauryan Empire, the last non-Muslim dynasty was the Yadavas of Devagiri. After decades of military clashes with Muslim rulers in northern India, the region was occupied by Muslim armies between 1312 and 1470. From 1500 on there was fierce fighting for rule on the coast between the Muslim rulers and the Portuguese. After that, various Muslim dynasties ruled until 1658 (Sultanate of Delhi, Bahmani, Deccan Sultanates and the Mughals). From 1658, most of the area became part of the Maratha Empire. After the defeat of the Marathas against the British in 1818, Ratnagiri area became an administrative region of the Bombay Presidency. With the independence of India in 1947 and the reorganization of the country, it became part of the new Bombay State in 1950. In 1948 the district grew through the incorporation of the Sawantwadi princely state. In 1960, Bombay State was divided and the area became part of the newly created state of Maharashtra. In 1981 the district was divided and the southern part of the district became Sindhudurg district.\nGeography.\nAn outstanding feature of the geography of the district is its uneven or hill landscape, with about 45% of the area covered by hills.The Sahyadri hill range runs for 180\u00a0km.\nDemographics.\nAccording to the 2011 census Ratnagiri district has a population of 1,615,069, roughly equal to the nation of Guinea-Bissau or the US state of Idaho. This gives it a ranking of 311th in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of . Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was -4.96%. Ratnagiri has a sex ratio of 1123 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 82.43%. 16.33% of the population lives in urban areas. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes make up 4.15% and 1.26% of the population respectively.\nAt the time of the 2011 Census of India, 88.18% of the population in the district spoke Marathi, 7.36% Urdu, 1.43% Hindi and 1.14% Konkani as their first language. Most people speak distinct coastal dialects of Marathi.\nNotable people.\nNotable people from Ratnagiri include:\nGeographical indication.\nSindhudurg and Ratnagiri Kokum was awarded the Geographical Indication (GI) status tag from the Geographical Indications Registry, under the Union Government of India, on 31 March 2016.\nSindhudurg Ratnagiri Mahakokum Sanstha from Malvan, proposed the GI registration of Sindhudurg &amp; Ratnagiri Kokum. After filing the application in March 2014, the Kokum was granted the GI tag in 2016 by the Geographical Indication Registry in Chennai, making the name \"Sindhudurg &amp; Ratnagiri Kokum\" exclusive to the Kokum grown in the region. It thus became the first Kokum variety from India and the 13th type of goods from Maharashtra to earn the GI tag.\nThe prestigious GI tag, awarded by the GI registry, certifies that a product possesses distinct qualities, adheres to traditional production methods, and has earned a reputation rooted in its geographical origin."}
{"id": "708659", "revid": "25382777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708659", "title": "F\u00e9lix Escalona", "text": "F\u00e9lix Eduardo Escalona (born 12 March 1979) is a Venezuelan baseball coach and former Major League Baseball shortstop and second baseman. He is the first base coach for the Navegantes del Magallanes of the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League.\nCareer.\nHe was signed by the Houston Astros as an amateur free agent in and drafted by the San Francisco Giants from Houston in the Rule 5 Draft. Later, he was selected off waivers by the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in , making his major league debut in that season. In , Escalona was claimed off waivers by the Baltimore Orioles, but did not play in the majors for them.\nIn , Escalona signed a minor league contract with the New York Yankees and was invited to spring training. He started the season with the Triple-A Columbus Clippers and was recalled to the majors in September. Escalona was released by the Yankees during the season.\nIn , Escalona signed with the Ottawa Rapidz of the Can-Am League, but was released on July 6, 2008.\nIn February , Escalona signed with the De Angelis Godo of Italy's Serie A1.\nIn a four-season major league career, Escalona was a .209 hitter with 13 RBI and 20 runs in 84 games."}
{"id": "708662", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708662", "title": "Gluten-free diet", "text": "A gluten-free diet (GFD) is a nutritional plan that strictly excludes gluten, which is a mixture of prolamin proteins found in wheat (and all of its species and hybrids, such as spelt, kamut, and triticale), as well as barley, rye, and oats. The inclusion of oats in a gluten-free diet remains controversial, and may depend on the oat cultivar and the frequent cross-contamination with other gluten-containing cereals.\nGluten may cause both gastrointestinal and systemic symptoms for those with gluten-related disorders, including coeliac disease (CD), non-coeliac gluten sensitivity (NCGS), and wheat allergy. In these people, the gluten-free diet is demonstrated as an effective treatment, but studies show that up to 79% of the people with coeliac disease have an incomplete recovery of the small bowel, despite a strict gluten-free diet. This is mainly caused by inadvertent ingestion of gluten. People with a poor understanding of a gluten-free diet often believe that they are strictly following the diet, but are making regular errors.\nIn addition, a gluten-free diet may, in at least some cases, improve gastrointestinal or systemic symptoms in diseases like irritable bowel syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, or HIV enteropathy, among others. There is no good evidence that gluten-free diets are an alternative medical treatment for people with autism.\nThe grains that contain gluten are not essential in the human diet. However, an unbalanced selection of food and an incorrect choice of gluten-free replacement products may lead to nutritional deficiencies. Replacing flour from wheat or other gluten-containing cereals with gluten-free flours in commercial products may lead to a lower intake of important nutrients, such as iron and B vitamins. Some gluten-free commercial replacement products are not as enriched or fortified as their gluten-containing counterparts, and often have greater lipid/carbohydrate content. Children especially often over-consume these products, such as snacks and biscuits. Nutritional complications can be prevented by a correct dietary education.\nA gluten-free diet may be based on gluten-free foods, such as meat, fish, eggs, milk and dairy products, legumes, nuts, fruits, vegetables, potatoes, rice, and corn. Gluten-free processed foods may be used. Pseudocereals (such as quinoa, amaranth, and buckwheat) and some minor cereals have been found to be suitable alternative choices that can provide adequate nutrition.\nRationale behind adoption of the diet.\nCoeliac disease.\nCoeliac disease (American English: celiac) (CD) is a chronic, immune-mediated, and mainly intestinal process, that appears in genetically predisposed people of all ages. It is caused by the ingestion of gluten, which is present in wheat, barley, rye and derivatives. Coeliac disease is not only a gastrointestinal disease, because it may affect several organs and cause an extensive variety of non-gastrointestinal symptoms, and most importantly, it may often be completely asymptomatic. Added difficulties for diagnosis are the fact that serological markers (anti-tissue transglutaminase [TG2]) are not always present, and many people with coeliac may have minor mucosal lesions, without atrophy of the intestinal villi.\nCoeliac disease affects approximately 1\u20132% of the general population all over the world and is on the increase, but most cases remain unrecognized, undiagnosed and untreated, exposing patients to the risk of long-term complications. People may develop severe disease symptoms and be subjected to extensive investigations for many years before a proper diagnosis is achieved. Untreated coeliac disease may cause malabsorption, reduced quality of life, iron deficiency, osteoporosis, obstetric complications (stillbirth, intrauterine growth restriction, preterm birth, low birthweight, and small for gestational age), an increased risk of intestinal lymphomas and greater mortality. Coeliac disease is associated with some autoimmune diseases, such as diabetes mellitus type 1, thyroiditis, gluten ataxia, psoriasis, vitiligo, autoimmune hepatitis, dermatitis herpetiformis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and more.\nCoeliac disease with \"classic symptoms\", which include gastrointestinal manifestations such as chronic diarrhea and abdominal distention, malabsorption, loss of appetite, and impaired growth, is currently the least common presentation of the disease and affects predominantly small children generally younger than two years of age.\nCoeliac disease with \"non-classic symptoms\" is the most common clinical type and occurs in older children (over two years old), adolescents and adults. It is characterized by milder or even absent gastrointestinal symptoms and a wide spectrum of non-intestinal manifestations that can involve any organ of the body, and very frequently may be completely asymptomatic both in children (at least in 43% of the cases) and adults.\nFollowing a lifelong gluten-free diet is the only medically accepted treatment for people with coeliac disease.\nNon-coeliac gluten sensitivity.\nNon-coeliac gluten sensitivity (NCGS) is described as a condition of multiple symptoms that improves when switching to a gluten-free diet, after coeliac disease and wheat allergy are excluded. People with NCGS may develop gastrointestinal symptoms, which resemble those of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) or a variety of nongastrointestinal symptoms.\nGastrointestinal symptoms may include any of the following: abdominal pain, bloating, bowel habit abnormalities (either diarrhea or constipation), nausea, aerophagia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and aphthous stomatitis. A range of extra-intestinal symptoms, said to be the only manifestation of NCGS in the absence of gastrointestinal symptoms, have been suggested, but remain controversial. These include: headache, migraine, \"brain fog\", fatigue, fibromyalgia, joint and muscle pain, leg or arm numbness, tingling of the extremities, dermatitis (eczema or skin rash), atopic disorders such as asthma, rhinitis, other allergies, depression, anxiety, iron-deficiency anemia, folate deficiency or autoimmune diseases. NCGS has also been controversially implicated in some neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia, eating disorders, autism, peripheral neuropathy, ataxia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Above 20% of people with NCGS have IgE-mediated allergy to one or more inhalants, foods or metals, among which most common are mites, graminaceae, parietaria, cat or dog hair, shellfish and nickel. Approximately, 35% of people with NCGS have other food intolerances, mainly lactose intolerance.\nThe pathogenesis of NCGS is not yet well understood. For this reason, it is a controversial syndrome and some authors still question it. There is evidence that not only gliadin (the main cytotoxic antigen of gluten), but also other proteins named ATIs which are present in gluten-containing cereals (wheat, rye, barley, and their derivatives) may have a role in the development of symptoms. ATIs are potent activators of the innate immune system. FODMAPs, especially fructans, are present in small amounts in gluten-containing grains and have been identified as a possible cause of some gastrointestinal symptoms in persons with NCGS. As of 2019, reviews have concluded that although FODMAPs may play a role in NCGS, they only explain certain gastrointestinal symptoms, such as bloating, but not the extra-digestive symptoms that people with NCGS may develop, such as neurological disorders, fibromyalgia, psychological disturbances, and dermatitis.\nAfter exclusion of coeliac disease and wheat allergy, the subsequent step for diagnosis and treatment of NCGS is to start a strict gluten-free diet to assess if symptoms improve or resolve completely. This may occur within days to weeks of starting a GFD, but improvement may also be due to a non-specific, placebo response. Recommendations may resemble those for coeliac disease, for the diet to be strict and maintained, with no transgression. The degree of gluten cross contamination tolerated by people with NCGS is not clear but there is some evidence that they can present with symptoms even after consumption of small amounts. It is not yet known whether NCGS is a permanent or a transient condition. A trial of gluten reintroduction to observe any reaction after one\u2013two years of strict gluten-free diet might be performed.\nA subgroup of people with NCGS may not improve by eating commercially available gluten-free products, which are usually rich of preservatives and additives, because chemical additives (such as sulphites, glutamates, nitrates and benzoates) might have a role in evoking functional gastrointestinal symptoms of NCGS. These people may benefit from a diet with a low content of preservatives and additives.\nNCGS, which is possibly immune-mediated, now appears to be more common than coeliac disease, with prevalence rates between 0.5 and 13% in the general population.\nWheat allergy.\nPeople can also experience adverse effects of wheat as result of a wheat allergy. Gastrointestinal symptoms of wheat allergy are similar to those of coeliac disease and non-coeliac gluten sensitivity, but there is a different interval between exposure to wheat and onset of symptoms. Other symptoms such as dermal reactions like as rashes or hyperpigmentation may also occur in some people. Wheat allergy has a fast onset (from minutes to hours) after the consumption of food containing wheat and could be anaphylaxis.\nThe management of wheat allergy consists of complete withdrawal of any food containing wheat and other gluten-containing cereals. Nevertheless, some people with wheat allergy can tolerate barley, rye or oats.\nGluten ataxia.\nGluten ataxia is an autoimmune disease triggered by the ingestion of gluten. With gluten ataxia, damage takes place in the cerebellum, the balance center of the brain that controls coordination and complex movements like walking, speaking and swallowing, with loss of Purkinje cells. People with gluten ataxia usually present gait abnormality or incoordination and tremor of the upper limbs. Gaze-evoked nystagmus and other ocular signs of cerebellar dysfunction are common. Myoclonus, palatal tremor, and opsoclonus-myoclonus may also appear.\nEarly diagnosis and treatment with a gluten-free diet can improve ataxia and prevent its progression. The effectiveness of the treatment depends on the elapsed time from the onset of the ataxia until diagnosis, because the death of neurons in the cerebellum as a result of gluten exposure is irreversible.\nGluten ataxia accounts for 40% of ataxias of unknown origin and 15% of all ataxias. Less than 10% of people with gluten ataxia present any gastrointestinal symptom, yet about 40% have intestinal damage.\nAs a non-medical diet.\nSince the beginning of the 21st century, the gluten-free diet has become a fad diet.\nThe gluten-free diet has been advocated and followed by celebrities to lose weight and some professional athletes. There is no published experimental evidence to support that the gluten-free diet contributes to weight loss.\nThere is a consensus in the medical community that people should consult a physician before going on a gluten-free diet, so that a medical professional can accurately test for coeliac disease or any other gluten-related disorders.\nResearch.\nIn a 2013 double-blind, placebo-controlled challenge (DBPC) by Biesiekierski et al. in a few people with irritable bowel syndrome, the authors found no difference between gluten or placebo groups and the concept of non-celiac gluten sensitivity as a syndrome was questioned. Nevertheless, this study had design errors and an incorrect selection of participants, and probably the reintroduction of both gluten and whey protein had a nocebo effect similar in all people, and this could have masked the true effect of gluten/wheat reintroduction.\nIn a 2015 double-blind placebo cross-over trial, small amounts of purified wheat gluten triggered gastrointestinal symptoms (such as abdominal bloating and pain) and extra-intestinal manifestations (such as foggy mind, depression and aphthous stomatitis) in self-reported non-celiac gluten sensitivity. Nevertheless, it remains elusive whether these findings specifically implicate gluten or other proteins present in gluten-containing cereals.\nIn a 2018 double-blind, crossover research study on 59 persons on a gluten-free diet with challenges of gluten, fructans or placebo, intestinal symptoms (specifically bloating) were borderline significantly higher after challenge with fructans, in comparison with gluten proteins (P=0.049). Although the differences between the three interventions was very small, the authors concluded that fructans (the specific type of FODMAP found in wheat) are more likely to be the cause of gastrointestinal symptoms of non-celiac gluten sensitivity, rather than gluten. For this previous study, experts recommend a low FODMAP diet instead of a gluten free diet for those patients suffering from functional gastrointestinal disorders as bloating. In addition, fructans used in the study were extracted from chicory root, so it remains to be seen whether the wheat fructans produce the same effect.\nEating gluten-free.\nA gluten-free diet is a diet that strictly excludes gluten, proteins present in wheat (and all wheat varieties such as spelt and kamut), barley, rye, oat, and derivatives of these grains such as malt and triticale, and foods that may include them, or shared transportation or processing facilities with them. The inclusion of oats in a gluten-free diet remains controversial. Oat toxicity in people with gluten-related disorders depends on the oat cultivar consumed because the immunoreactivities of toxic prolamins are different among oat varieties. Furthermore, oats are frequently cross-contaminated with the other gluten-containing cereals. Pure oat (labelled as \"pure oat\" or \"gluten-free oat\") refers to oats uncontaminated with any of the other gluten-containing cereals. Some cultivars of pure oat could be a safe part of a gluten-free diet, requiring knowledge of the oat variety used in food products for a gluten-free diet. Nevertheless, the long-term effects of pure oats consumption are still unclear and further studies identifying the cultivars used are needed before making final recommendations on their inclusion in the gluten-free diet.\nOther grains, although gluten-free in themselves, may contain gluten by cross-contamination with gluten-containing cereals during grain harvesting, transporting, milling, storing, processing, handling or cooking.\nProcessed foods commonly contain gluten as an additive (as emulsifiers, thickeners, gelling agents, fillers, and coatings), so they would need specific labeling. Unexpected sources of gluten are, among others, processed meat, vegetarian meat substitutes, reconstituted seafood, stuffings, butter, seasonings, marinades, dressings, confectionary, candies, and ice cream.\nCross-contamination in the home is also a consideration for those who have gluten-related disorders. There can be many sources of cross-contamination, as for example when family members prepare gluten-free and gluten-containing foods on the same surfaces (countertops, tables, etc.) or share utensils that have not been cleaned after being used to prepare gluten-containing foods (cutting boards, colanders, cutlery, etc.), kitchen equipment (toaster, cupboards, etc.) or certain packaged foods (butter, peanut butter, etc.).\nRestaurants prove to be another source of cross-contamination for those following a strict gluten-free diet. A study conducted by Columbia University Medical Center found that 32% of foods labeled gluten-free at restaurants contain above 20 parts per million of gluten, meaning that it contains enough gluten that it is no longer considered gluten-free by the Codex Alimentarius. Cross-contamination occurs in these areas frequently because of a general lack of knowledge about the needed level of caution and the prevalence of gluten in restaurant kitchens. If cooks are unaware of the severity of their guest's diet restrictions or of the important practices needed to limit cross-contamination, they can unknowingly deliver contaminated food. However, some restaurants utilize a training program for their employees to educate them about the gluten-free diet. The accuracy of the training varies. One resource to find these safer restaurants is an app and website called \"Find Me Gluten Free\" that allows people following a gluten-free diet to rate the safety of different restaurants from their point of view and describe their experience to help future customers.\nEasily locating gluten-free items is one of the main difficulties in following a gluten-free diet. To assist in this process, many restaurants and grocery stores choose to label food items. Restaurants often add a gluten-free section to their menu, or specifically mark gluten-free items with a symbol of some kind. Grocery stores often have a gluten-free aisle, or they will attach labels on the shelf underneath gluten-free items. Though the food is labeled gluten-free in this way, it does not necessarily mean that the food is safe for those with gluten-related disorders, as a compilation of studies suggest.\nMedications and dietary supplements are made using excipients that may contain gluten.\nGluten-free food.\nThe gluten-free diet includes naturally gluten-free food, such as meat, fish, seafood, eggs, milk and dairy products, nuts, legumes, fruit, vegetables, potatoes, pseudocereals (in particular amaranth, buckwheat, chia seed, quinoa), only certain cereal grains (corn, rice, sorghum), minor cereals (including fonio, Job's tears, millet, teff, called \"minor\" cereals as they are \"less common and are only grown in a few small regions of the world\"), some other plant products (arrowroot, mesquite flour, sago, tapioca) and products made from these gluten-free foods. Many Indian cuisine options, particularly South Indian cuisine, are gluten-free.\nRisks.\nAn unbalanced selection of food and an incorrect choice of gluten-free replacement products may lead to nutritional deficiencies. Replacing flour from wheat or other gluten-containing cereals with gluten-free flours in commercial products may lead to a lower intake of important nutrients, such as iron and B vitamins and a higher intake of sugars and saturated fats. Some gluten-free commercial replacement products are not enriched or fortified as their gluten-containing counterparts, and often have greater lipid / carbohydrate content. Children especially often over-consume these products, such as snacks and biscuits. These nutritional complications can be prevented by a correct dietary education. Pseudocereals (quinoa, amaranth, and buckwheat) and some minor cereals are healthy alternatives to these prepared products and have higher biological and nutritional value. Advances towards higher nutrition-content gluten-free bakery products, improved for example in terms of fiber content and glycemic index, have been made by using not exclusively corn starch or other starches to substitute for flour. In this aim, for example the dietary fibre inulin (which acts as a prebiotic) or quinoa or amaranth wholemeal have been as substitute for part of the flour. Similarly, xanthan gum can be used in up to gram quantities per serving in some gluten-free baked goods and can be fermented by specific microbiomes in the gastrointestinal tract. Such substitution has been found to also yield improved crust and texture of bread. It is recommended that anyone embarking on a gluten-free diet check with a registered dietitian to make sure they are getting the required amount of key nutrients like iron, calcium, fiber, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin and folate. Vitamins often contain gluten as a binding agent. Experts have advised that it is important to always read the content label of any product that is intended to be swallowed.\nUp to 30% of people with known coeliac disease often continue having or redeveloping symptoms. Also, a lack of symptoms or negative blood antibodies levels are not reliable indicators of intestinal recuperation. Several studies show an incomplete recovery of small bowel despite a strict gluten-free diet. Depending on the study, somewhere between 17.5 - 92.1% of celiacs will achieve histological remission. This lack of recovery in a substantial subset of those with celiac disease is mainly caused by inadvertent exposure to gluten. People with poor basic education and understanding of the gluten-free diet often believe that they are strictly following the diet, but are making regular errors. In addition, some people often deliberately continue eating gluten because of limited availability, inferior taste, higher price, and inadequate labelling of gluten-free products. Poor compliance with the regimen is also influenced by age at diagnosis (adolescents), ignorance of the consequences of the lack of a strict treatment and certain psychological factors. Ongoing gluten intake can cause severe disease complications, such as various types of cancers (both intestinal and extra-intestinal) and osteoporosis.\nRegulation and labels.\nThe term \"gluten-free\" is generally used to indicate a supposed harmless level of gluten for a person with celiac disease rather than a complete absence. The exact level at which gluten is harmless is uncertain and controversial.\nThe study cited by most jurisdictions in the development of their ppm standards is a 2007 randomized control trial by Catassi et al, which established the last known safe limit for persons with celiac disease to be 10\u00a0mg of gluten per day. This study involved celiac participants ingesting a pill containing either 0\u00a0mg (placebo), 10\u00a0mg or 50\u00a0mg of gluten on a daily basis for 90 days. Those in the 50\u00a0mg group had significant differences in their intestinal architecture as a result of the micro-challenge. On this basis, different jurisdictions have developed ppm (mg/kg) standards that should ensure that a person with celiac disease can consume a reasonable amount of packaged food before exceeding this daily limit.\nRegulation of the label gluten-free varies by country. Most countries derive key provisions of their gluten-free labelling regulations from the Codex Alimentarius international standards for food labelling as a standard relating to the labelling of products as gluten-free. It only applies to foods that would normally contain gluten. Gluten-free is defined as 20 ppm (= 20\u00a0mg/kg) or less. It categorizes gluten-free food as:\nThe Codex Standard suggests the enzyme-linked Immunoassay (ELISA) R5 Mendez method for indicating the presence of gluten, but allows for other relevant methods, such as DNA. The Codex Standard specifies that the gluten-free claim must appear in the immediate proximity of the name of the product, to ensure visibility.\nThere is no general agreement on the analytical method used to measure gluten in ingredients and food products. The ELISA method was designed to detect w-gliadins, but it suffered from the setback that it lacked sensitivity for barley prolamins. The use of highly sensitive assays is mandatory to certify gluten-free food products. The European Union, World Health Organization, and Codex Alimentarius require reliable measurement of the wheat prolamins, gliadins rather than all-wheat proteins.\nAustralia.\nThe Australian government recommends that:\nBrazil.\nAll food products must be clearly labelled whether they contain gluten or they are gluten-free. Since April 2016, the declaration of the possibility of cross-contamination is mandatory when the product does not intentionally add any allergenic food or its derivatives, but the Good Manufacturing Practices and allergen control measures adopted are not sufficient to prevent the presence of accidental trace amounts. When a product contains the warning of cross-contamination with wheat, rye, barley, oats and their hybridized strains, the warning \"contains gluten\" is mandatory. The law does not establish a gluten threshold for the declaration of its absence.\nCanada.\nLabel laws pertinent to the gluten-free diet are primarily regulated by the federal Food and Drugs Act and the Food and Drug Regulations, which come under this Act. The Food and Drugs Act applies only to packaged foods for human consumption that are traded inter-provincially and/or that are imported. The regulation of gluten ingredients and gluten-free claims in restaurants, cottage industry sales, or other non-packaged foods is a matter of provincial jurisdiction or common law.\nNon-foods that are consumed like natural health products (supplements) have some regulations pertaining to gluten disclosure under the Natural Health Product Regulations and related guidance. While there are no explicit legislative provisions relating to gluten-free claims or gluten disclosure outside of this at the federal level, there could exist liability under more general consumer protection legislation where a misleading gluten-free claim is made, e.g. the Consumer Packaging and Labelling Act.\nIngredient declaration.\nThe Food and Drug Regulations define gluten as including wheat, barley, rye, oats, and triticale. The definition of gluten also includes protein fractions of the aforementioned grains. Where gluten is an intentional ingredient in a product, it must be declared in the ingredient list and/or in a \"contains\" statement on the package. The specific source of the gluten (wheat, barley, rye, oats etc.) must also be declared.\nThe use of precautionary statements (\"may contain\") for the purposes of disclosing unintentional cross-contamination from gluten at any ppm level is optional.\nGluten-free claims.\nThe Food and Drug Regulations (s B.24.018) stipulate that packaged foods being represented as gluten-free must not contain \"any\" gluten protein ingredients, including fragments. The Regulations do not specify any ppm level and do not define \"protein fragment.\" Guidance (soft law) from both Health Canada and the CFIA provides insight into the enforcement of B.24.018.\nHealth Canada's position is that foods that contain less than 20 ppm of gluten from cross-contamination meet the health and safety intent of the word \"any\" used in B.24.018.\nThe CFIA's guidance specifies that gluten ingredients can appear in products with a gluten-free claim if they are sufficiently processed to remove gluten proteins, such as distilled alcohol (e.g. vodka derived from wheat). Fermentation is not considered to be a process that removes gluten. The implication of this is that ingredients such as barley malt (often used in beer) are not permissible in gluten-free products irrespective of the ppm level. This is also affirmed in the CFIA's guidance on enforcement of gluten-free claims.\nAs a result of a 2015 Market Authorization, oats are permitted in gluten-free foods as long as they are less than 20 ppm from cross-contamination. To comply with the Market Authorization, the oats must be described as \"gluten-free\" in the ingredient list.\nEuropean Union.\nThe EU European Commission delineates the categories as:\nAll foods containing gluten as an ingredient must be labelled accordingly as gluten is defined as one of the 14 recognized EU allergens.\nUnited States.\nUntil 2012 anyone could use the gluten-free claim with no repercussion. In 2008, Wellshire Farms chicken nuggets labelled gluten-free were purchased and samples were sent to a food allergy laboratory where they were found to contain gluten. After this was reported in the \"Chicago Tribune\", the products continued to be sold. The manufacturer has since replaced the batter used in its chicken nuggets.\nThe U.S. first addressed gluten-free labelling in the 2004 Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act (FALCPA). The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau published interim rules and proposed mandatory labelling for alcoholic products in 2006. The FDA issued their Final Rule on August 5, 2013.\nWhen a food producer voluntarily chooses to use a gluten-free claim for a product, the food bearing the claim in its labelling may not contain:\nAny food product that inherently does not contain gluten may use a gluten-free label where any unavoidable presence of gluten in the food bearing the claim in its labelling is below 20 ppm gluten."}
{"id": "708665", "revid": "62", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708665", "title": "6-Day War", "text": ""}
{"id": "708666", "revid": "22041646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708666", "title": "Santhali", "text": ""}
{"id": "708667", "revid": "28501110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708667", "title": "Oscar Salazar (baseball)", "text": "Oscar Enrique Salazar (born June 27, 1978) is a former Major League Baseball infielder. He previously played in Major League Baseball for the Detroit Tigers, Baltimore Orioles and San Diego Padres. He also played in Nippon Professional Baseball for the Yokohama DeNA BayStars.\nPlaying career.\nSigned by Oakland as an amateur free agent in 1994, Salazar was selected off waivers by the Detroit Tigers in 2002, and made his major league debut for the Tigers on April 10, 2002 against the Chicago White Sox. He appeared a pinch runner in the seventh inning and remained in the game at second base during the Tigers' 7\u20135 loss.\nIn one season as a backup with the Tigers, Salazar batted .190 with one home run and three RBI in eight games.\nIn 2003, Salazar was diagnosed with injuries in his arm and shoulder which required season-ending surgery. He worked out in 2004 spring training, but his recovery was slower than expected. He played that season for the Akron Aeros, the Cleveland Indians' Double-A affiliate, batting .221 with six home runs and 21 RBI in 44 games.\nIn 2005, Salazar played for Canc\u00fan of the Mexican League, appearing in 71 games and batting .273 with six home runs and 32 RBI. He played for his hometown team, the Tigres de Aragua the Caribbean Series, after he plays on his actual team, Tiburones de La Guaira.\nBaltimore Orioles.\nOn November 24, 2006, Salazar signed with the Baltimore Orioles as a minor league free agent. He played for the Bowie Baysox of the Double-A Eastern League in 2007. In 136 games with the Baysox, he hit .290 with 22 home runs and 96 RBI. He began 2008 with the Triple-A Norfolk Tides of the International League, batting .311 with seven home runs, 23 doubles and 44 RBI in 63 games before his June recall.\nOn June 10, 2008, Salazar was called up to the Orioles to replace struggling starter Steve Trachsel on the roster. He batted .284 with five home runs and 15 RBI in 34 games with the Orioles in 2008.\nSan Diego Padres.\nOn July 19, 2009, Salazar was traded to the San Diego Padres for relief pitcher Cla Meredith. On February 1, 2011, the Padres designated Salazar for assignment. He was released by the Padres on March 28, 2011.\nFlorida Marlins.\nOn April 14, 2011, Salazar signed a minor league contract with the Florida Marlins. He spent the season with the Triple-A New Orleans Zephyrs, batting .221 with two home runs and 16 RBI in 45 games.\nYokohama DeNA BayStars.\nOn February 12, 2012, Salazar passed a try out for a Japanese team, Yokohama DeNA BayStars and signed a contract. In 66 games with Yokohama, Salazar hit .265 with seven home runs and 32 RBI. He was released by the BayStars on October 16, 2012.\nGuerreros de Oaxaca.\nOn March 23, 2013, Salazar signed with the Guerreros de Oaxaca of the Mexican Baseball League. In 18 games he hit .303/.407/.439 with 2 home runs, 13 RBIs and 1 stolen base.\nPericos de Puebla.\nOn April 14, 2013, Salazar was traded to the Pericos de Puebla. He was released on April 24, 2013. In 9 games he hit .250/.324/.406 with 1 home run and 7 RBIs.\nRimini Baseball Club.\nIn 2014, Salazar signed with the Rimini Baseball Club of the Serie A1 Italian Baseball League. In 42 games he hit .262/.400/.443 with 6 home runs, 26 RBIs and 2 stolen bases.\nCoaching career.\nSan Diego Padres organization.\nOn March 30, 2021, Salazar was named fielding coach for the El Paso Chihuahuas.\nWashington Nationals organization.\nSalazar was named as a development coach for the Washington Nationals Doubhle-A affiliate Harrisburg Senators for the 2024 season."}
{"id": "708672", "revid": "32545823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708672", "title": "Success-oriented management", "text": ""}
{"id": "708673", "revid": "6474209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708673", "title": "Forever war", "text": ""}
{"id": "708674", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708674", "title": "Moghul empire", "text": ""}
{"id": "708679", "revid": "21345908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708679", "title": "Ricotta", "text": "Ricotta () is an Italian whey cheese made from sheep, cow, goat, or Italian water buffalo milk whey left over from the production of other cheeses. However, modern ricotta is often made from milk instead of whey. Like other whey cheeses, it is made by coagulating the proteins that remain after the casein has been used to make cheese, notably albumin and globulin.\nRicotta () protein can be harvested if the whey is first allowed to become more acidic by additional fermentation (by letting it sit for 12\u201324 hours at room temperature). Then the acidified whey is heated to near boiling. The combination of low pH and high temperature denatures the protein and causes it to flocculate, forming a fine curd. Once cooled, it is separated by passing the liquid through a fine cloth, leaving the curd behind.\nRicotta curds are creamy white in appearance, and slightly sweet in taste. The fat content varies depending on the milk used. In this form, it is somewhat similar in texture to some fresh cheese variants, though considerably lighter. It is highly perishable. However, ricotta is also made in aged varieties which are preservable for much longer.\nHistory.\nThe production of ricotta in the Italian peninsula dates back to the Bronze Age. In the second millennium BC, ceramic vessels called milk boilers started to appear frequently and were apparently unique to the peninsula. These were designed to boil milk at high temperatures and prevent the milk from boiling over. The fresh acid-coagulated cheeses produced with these boilers were probably made with whole milk.\nThe production of rennet-coagulated cheese, though, overtook the production of fresh whole-milk cheeses during the first millennium BC. Bronze cheese graters found in the graves of the Etruscan elite prove that hard-grating cheeses were popular with the aristocracy. Cheese graters were also commonly used in ancient Roman kitchens. Unlike the fresh acid-coagulated cheese, aged rennet-coagulated cheese could be preserved for much longer.\nThe increased production of rennet-coagulated cheese led to a large supply of sweet whey as a byproduct. Cheesemakers then started using a new recipe, which used a mixture of whey and milk to make the traditional ricotta as it is known today.\nThe ancient Romans made ricotta, but writers on agriculture, such as Cato the Elder, Marcus Terentius Varro, and Columella, do not mention it. They described the production of rennet-coagulated cheese, but did not write about milk boilers or acid-coagulated cheese. A likely reason is that ricotta was not profitable because its very short shelf life did not allow distribution to urban markets. Ricotta was most likely consumed by the herders who made it. Even so, evidence from paintings and literature indicates that ricotta was known and likely eaten by Roman aristocrats, as well.\nCeramic milk boilers were still used by Apennine herders to make ricotta in the 19th century AD. Today, metal milk boilers are used, but production methods have changed little since ancient times.\nManufacturing process.\nWhey proteins are some of the many kinds of milk proteins. The production process entails the use of heat and acid to coagulate whey protein from whey solution. The whey solution is heated to a near-boiling temperature, much hotter than during the production of the original cheese, of which the whey is a remnant.\nFresh variants.\n\"Ricotta di bufala campana\" and \"ricotta romana\" are notable varieties produced in Italy and protected by the European Union's protected designation of origin regulation. \"Ricotta di bufala campana\" is made from the whey left over after the production of \"mozzarella di bufala campana\", a protected variety of buffalo mozzarella. \"Ricotta romana\" is made from the whey of sheep milk.\nAged variants.\nFresh ricotta can be subject to extra processing to produce variants which have a much longer shelf life. These production methods include salting, baking, smoking, and further fermentation.\n\"Ricotta salata\" is a pressed, salted, dried, and aged variety of the cheese, typically using ricottas made with sheep's milk sourced from Lazio. It is milky-white and firm, and is used as a table cheese or for grating or shaving over dishes, particularly pastas made fresh from water and flour. \"Ricotta salata\" is sold in wheels, decorated by a delicate basket-weave pattern.\n\"Ricotta infornata\" () is produced by placing a large lump of soft ricotta in the oven until it develops a brown, lightly charred crust, sometimes even until it becomes sandy brown all the way through. \"Ricotta infornata\" is popular primarily in Sardinia and Sicily, and is sometimes called \"ricotta al forno\".\n\"Ricotta affumicata\" () is similar to \"ricotta infornata\" and is produced by placing a lump of soft ricotta in a smoker until it develops a grey crust and acquires a charred wood scent, usually of oak or chestnut wood, although, in Friuli, beech wood is used, with the addition of juniper and herbs.\n\"Ricotta forte\", also known as \"ricotta scanta\", is produced from leftovers of any combination of cow, goat, or sheep milk ricotta. These are allowed to age for about a year, during which salt is added and the cheese mixed every two or three days to prevent the growth of mold. The end result is a soft and creamy brown paste which has a very pungent and piquant taste. It is produced in the southern part of the province of Lecce and sold in glass jars. It is smeared on bread, mixed with tomato sauces for pasta, or added to vegetable dishes.\nCommon culinary uses.\nLike mascarpone in northern Italian cuisine, ricotta is a favorite component of many Italian desserts, such as cheesecakes and cannoli. Also, a variety of different cookies include ricotta as an ingredient.\nRicotta can be beaten smooth and mixed with condiments, such as sugar, cinnamon, orange flower water, strawberries, and occasionally chocolate shavings, and served as a dessert. This basic combination (often with additions such as citrus and pistachios) also features prominently as the filling of the Sicilian cannoli and layered with slices of cake in Palermo's cassata.\nCombined with eggs and cooked grains, then baked firm, ricotta is also a main ingredient in Neapolitan \"pastiera\", one of Italy's many \"Easter pies\".\nRicotta is also commonly used in savory dishes, including pasta, calzone, stromboli, pizza, manicotti, lasagne, and ravioli.\nIt also is used as a mayonnaise substitute in traditional egg or tuna salad and as a sauce thickener.\nSimilar non-Italian cheeses.\nIn the United States, American ricotta is almost always made of cow's milk whey, as opposed to Italian ricotta which is typically made from the whey of sheep, cow, goat, or Italian water buffalo milk. While both types are low in fat and sodium, the Italian version is naturally sweet, while the American is a little saltier and moister.\nIn southern Switzerland, a similar ricotta is made, although it is often called \"mascarpa\". It is historically a staple food in the mountains. Equivalent whey cheeses (Ziger, S\u00e9rac) are produced in the rest of the country.\nIn France, ricotta is known as and can be made from cow, sheep, or goat milk. The name and technique of preparation change according to the region where it is produced: it is called Greuil, Breuil or S\u00e9rou in Gascony, Zenbera in the Basque country, Brousse in Provence, Brocciu in Corsica and in the Alps.\nIn Malta, a traditional cow's milk cheese known as \"irkotta\" is made almost identically to the Italian ricotta, with the exception that it is generally made using fresh milk rather than from residual whey, which gives it a slightly firmer, crumblier texture than the Italian variety. Regardless, irkotta is used in very similar ways to Italian ricotta within Maltese cooking, being a primary filling for savoury dishes like ravoli and pies, as well as sweet dishes such as cannoli and cakes. It is also one of the two traditional fillings for \"pastizz\", a local savoury pastry snack, with the other being mushy peas.\nIn Tunisia, the \"rigouta\" from the city of B\u00e9ja is a close relative to the ricotta, except that it is always fresh-soft and is not aged. It is exclusively made from the whey of Sicilo-Sarda sheep's milk. \"Rigouta\" is also used as the basis of several preparations and dishes of Tunisian cuisine.\nIn Spanish, ricotta is known as \"reques\u00f3n\". It can be salted or sweetened for cooking purposes. It was brought to Mexico by the Spaniards, although it is not as commonly used as \"queso fresco\". It is sometimes used as filling for \"tlacoyos\" and \"tacos dorados\", and in the central west area (Jalisco, Michoac\u00e1n, and Colima) it is spread over\" tostadas\" or \"bolillos\", or served as a side to beans. In Portugal and Brazil, a similar product is called \"requeij\u00e3o\".\nIn the Balkans, Romanian \"urd\u0103\" (), Macedonian \"urda\" (\u0443\u0440\u0434\u0430) and Bulgarian \"izvara\" (\u0438\u0437\u0432\u0430\u0440\u0430) are made by reprocessing the whey drained from any type of cheese. \"Urd\u0103\" is thus similar to fresh ricotta as its fabrication implies the same technological process. However, Romanian \"urd\u0103\" is neither smoked nor baked in the oven like some variants of the Italian ricotta. \"Urd\u0103\" has been produced by Romanian shepherds for centuries and is consequently regarded by Romanians as a Romanian traditional product."}
{"id": "708683", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708683", "title": "Thirteen Senses", "text": "Thirteen Senses are a post-Britpop band from Penzance, Cornwall. The group released the album \"The Invitation\" on 27 September 2004, along with several singles: \"Thru the Glass\", \"Do No Wrong\", \"Into the Fire\" and \"The Salt Wound Routine\", of which the first three reached the top 40 of the UK singles chart. Their second album, \"Contact\", was released in April 2007. Thirteen Senses are the only Cornish band to have a top 20 single.\nHistory.\nThirteen Senses started out as Soul Magician, that began in school when Will South started writing songs which he showed Adam Wilson. He in turn liked the songs and left the other band he was in at the time. Soul Magician took off when South and Wilson met Tom Welham. The latter knew Brendon James and they all became friends.\nIn 2002 Soul Magician released an EP, \"Inside A Healing Mind\", which was produced by Leon Phillips. It consisted of four tracks, one of which was later released as a B-side. \"Attracting Submission\" is found on the \"Do No Wrong\" 7\" vinyl. After that came in 2002 the \"No Other Life Is Attractive\" EP: the first Thirteen Senses release, produced by Dare Mason. This had five tracks. Four of them have been released as B-sides, the exception being \"Sound\". They then issued in 2003, \"Falls in the Dark\", a self-released and independent demo album.\nThe band's next release and major label debut album was \"The Invitation\". This consisted of twelve tracks and reached number 14 in the UK Albums Chart on its re-release.\nAt the beginning of 2004, and before \"The Invitation\", Thirteen Senses released their first single, \"Thru the Glass\". This was released on both CD and 7\" vinyl. The B-side was identical on both releases: \"No Other Life Is Attractive\". Later, the next single was \"Do No Wrong\" and it reached number 38 in the official UK singles chart. To promote it, Thirteen Senses went on tour, including a homecoming gig at the Hall for Cornwall in Truro.\nThe third single from the band was \"Into the Fire\". This was also released on two CDs and vinyl \"Into The Fire\" was used on BBC One's \"Match of the Day\". After this came a re-release of \"Thru the Glass\" which broke the group into the UK Top 20.\nThe band toured both in the UK and Europe in 2005 and made several appearances at festivals such as Glastonbury, T in the Park and V Festival.\nThe band spent much of the latter part of 2005 and early 2006 in the recording studio, working on their next album, \"Contact\". It was released on 2 April 2007. It was originally planned to be released in February 2007 but after playing three pre-album gigs at The Luminaire in London (on the thirteenth of the months of October, November and December), the band produced new tracks. \"Talking to Sirens\", one of the new tracks from \"Contact\", was only played at the last gig. Due to the new album release date, their UK tour was rescheduled for March.\nOn 28 August 2007 Thirteen Senses announced through their website that they had begun recording their third album, and between April\u2013July 2008 they previewed samples of 8 demo recordings on their Myspace page. After several months without official contact from the band, on 28 May 2009, Brendon James announced that their third studio album was close to completion and it would, \"all being well, be released within the next 2\u20133 months\".\nOn 16 March 2010 the band made their third album \"Crystal Sounds\" available to stream on their website, thirteensenses.com. A day later they announced this on their MySpace page and said the album would be available to stream \"for a limited time\". The physical version of \"Crystal Sounds\" was released on 21 February 2011 with four tracks not featured on the early release.\nOn 27 February 2013, the band announced via Facebook and Twitter that \"work on a new album is reaching its conclusion... more news coming soon...!\"\nOn 6 February 2014, the band announced via Facebook and Twitter that their fourth album \"A Strange Encounter\" would be released on 5 May 2014.\nOn 24 June 2024, the band announced via Facebook and Twitter (now also known as X) that their fifth album \"The Bound and the Infinite\" would be released on 9 August 2024."}
{"id": "708684", "revid": "43283345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708684", "title": "Pearl and Hermes Atoll", "text": "The Pearl and Hermes Atoll (Hawaiian: Holoikauaua), also known as Pearl and Hermes Reef, is part of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands, a group of small islands and atolls that form the farthest northwest portion of the Hawaiian island chain. The atoll consists of a variable number of flat and sandy islets, typically between five and seven. More were noted in historical sources but have since been lost to erosion and rising sea levels.\nThe atoll is named after \"Pearl\" and , a pair of English whaleships that wrecked there in 1822. It has been the site of at least eight known shipwrecks, including the Japanese \"Wiji Maru\", SS \"Quartette\", and most recently MV \"Casitas\", which ran aground on the reef in 2005.\nThe atoll is an important habitat for seabirds, marine life, and invertebrate species. Twenty-two bird species nest and breed on the islands, including twenty percent of the world's population of black-footed albatrosses. The atoll has historically been included with the rest of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands in conservation efforts. It is included in the Papah\u0101naumoku\u0101kea Marine National Monument, created in 2006. Ghost nets and other fishing debris, rising sea levels, and the invasive algae \"Chondria tumulosa\" pose a significant risk to the atoll and its wildlife.\nGeography.\nThe Pearl and Hermes Atoll is the third northernmost atoll of Hawaii, behind Midway and Kure, approximately northwest of Honolulu and east-southeast of Midway Atoll. Like the rest of the Hawaiian Islands, the atoll observes Hawaii Standard Time. In total, Pearl and Hermes has about of land and almost of coral reef habitat. The fringing coral reef which surrounds the atoll is roughly in circumference and open to the west.\nThe atoll's land area consists of several small islands which are periodically washed over when winter storms pass, along with several ephemeral sand spits. The islets are low and flat, with an average elevation of no more than in 2012, and there are no sources of fresh water on any of them. As of 2012, according to the United States Geological Survey (USGS), the atoll consists of five islands. Earlier sources note the presence of other islets, including a Sand Island and a Bird Island.\nFrom largest to smallest, the five remaining islands are Southeast Island (), Seal-Kittery (), North Island (), Grass Island (), and Little North Island (). Only the three largest islands have vegetation.\nComma-shaped North Island is the atoll's northernmost island. Little North Island lies to the southeast, less than away. Southeast Island lies approximately to the southeast of Little North. Grass Island approximately east, and Seal Kittery just under to the east of that.\nNomenclature.\nThe atoll is named for the ships \"Pearl\" and , which were wrecked upon it in 1822.\nThe Hawaiian-language name for the atoll, \"Holoikauaua\", was established in the late 1990s by the Hawaiian Lexicon Committee following an effort to restore traditional Hawaiian names which had been lost, misspelled, or replaced with foreign names. Because its original Hawaiian name was not known, the Committee conferred the new name of \"Holoikauaua\" to the atoll, in reference to the Hawaiian monk seal which frequents the waters there.\nHistory.\nInitial discovery by Europeans.\nThe atoll was discovered in 1822 when the English whaleships \"Pearl\" and \"Hermes\" ran aground on the surrounding reefs. The two ships had been en route to Japan from Honolulu through the uncharted waters of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands. Sometime late in the evening of April 24 or early in the morning of April 25, the 258-ton \"Hermes\" ran aground on an unseen reef. Shortly thereafter, the 327-ton \"Pearl\" also ran aground when it approached to provide assistance. The combined crews of both ships, some 57 sailors, were marooned on an unspecified island nearby for several months. During that time, James Robinson, a carpenter's mate, directed the construction of a small 30-ton vessel from the wreckage. Some accounts provide the name of the vessel as \"Drift\", while others state it was called \"Deliverance\".\nOn July 1, before the beach-built vessel could be launched, the passing ship \"Earl of Morby\" was sighted. 46 of the sailors took passage on the \"Earl of Morby\", but Robinson and eleven others opted to purchase the vessel they had built and sail it back to Honolulu in the hopes of recovering some of the losses incurred by the wreck. The sailors managed to sail the small vessel back to the main Hawaiian islands without further loss of life. They sold it for $2,000 USD. Robinson remained in Honolulu, and founded the James Robinson and Company shipyard there in 1827.\nKing Kamehameha III of Hawaii claimed the atoll by proclamation in 1854. In 1857, it was surveyed by the crew of the Hawaiian schooner \"Manuokawai\". The United States took possession of the atoll in 1859 by way of Captain N.C. Brooks and his ship \"Gambia\". Brooks reported that the atoll had eleven or twelve islets, and that some of them had trees and coarse grass. In 1867, the crew of the \"Laconda\" produced the first reliable chart of the reef, which was published by the United States Navy.\nEntrepreneurs from a rabbit canning business intentionally released rabbits on Southeast Island in 1894, where they devoured all the island's vegetation. This was the first documented instance of mammals being introduced to the atoll.\nThe Japanese schooner \"Wiji Maru\" was wrecked on the atoll in 1904, destroying the ship and its cargo of feathers. There was no loss of life, however. In 1916, crew members from the \"Thetis\" reported that they had spotted rabbits and Japanese fishing huts on Southeast Island. In 1923, the vessels of the Tanager Expedition stopped at the atoll and killed \"all but one rabbit on Southeast Island.\"\nExploitation of oysters.\nIn 1927, Captain William Greig Anderson of the Lanikai Fishing Company was fishing for tuna and in the process, discovered beds of black-lip pearl oysters in the atoll. He reported that they were rich with pearls \u2013 the only pearl beds in the United States. Anderson formed a trading company to capitalize on his find. Over the next three years, his trading company harvested some 20,000 pearls from the atoll, with the largest of these having a reported value of US$5,000. Some 150 tons of oyster shells, valued for their shiny mother-of-pearl, were harvested in the process. They were primarily sold to button manufacturers on the United States mainland.\nIn 1929, oyster harvesting in the atoll was made illegal by the government of the Territory of Hawaii. In 1930, the United States Bureau of Fisheries decided to conduct a thorough study of the atoll, led by Dr. Paul Galtsoff. The United States Navy loaned the minesweeper ship \"Whippoorwill\" for the five-week expedition, which covered the reef's geography, flora, and invertebrate and fish populations. A specific emphasis was placed on the pearl oyster population. Only 470 oysters were found. 320 were collected alive, and 150 were opened for examination. An estimated 10% contained pearls. Based on those findings, the surveyors concluded that Captain Anderson must have harvested between 150,000 and 200,000 oysters to obtain his reported 20,000 pearls, which had significantly depleted the oyster beds.\nThe \"Whippoorwill\" expedition documented wildlife aside from the oysters: Dr. Galtsoff's report indicated that they had found seals, sharks, sea turtles, albatrosses, booby birds, and numerous species of fish. They did not find any of the trees which Captain Brooks had mentioned in his 1857 report.\nLater wrecks.\nOn December 21, 1952, SS \"Quartette\", a Liberty ship measuring 7,198 tons, struck the eastern reef of the atoll at a speed of . The ship was driven further onto the reef by rough waves and winds, which collapsed the bow and damaged two forward holds. The crew was evacuated by the following day. The salvage tug \"Ono\" arrived on December 25 to attempt to tow the ship clear, but persistent stormy weather forced a delay of the rescue attempt. On January 3, before another rescue attempt could be made, the ship's anchors tore loose, and \"Quartette\" was blown onto the reef. It was deemed a total loss. Several weeks later, it snapped in half at the keel and the two pieces sank. The wreck site now serves as an artificial reef which provides a habitat for many fish species.\nOn July 2, 2005, the research vessel MV \"Casitas\", chartered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), ran aground on the north end of the atoll. The ship was carrying large quantities of gasoline, diesel fuel, and oil, which posed a substantial risk of leaking. Leak-prevention and extraction efforts led by the United States Coast Guard (USCG) in conjunction with other United States Government and State of Hawaii agencies began immediately. Although several people on board were forced to evacuate the ship, there was no loss of life. The initial grounding, combined with the rescue efforts, caused extensive damage to the reef including \"breakage of coral heads, scouring of the substrate, and injury to the reef structure itself\". The ship was fully removed from the atoll on August 4, 2005, but was too damaged for salvage. She was towed to a site northwest of Pearl and Hermes Atoll approved by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), where she was sunk in waters over deep. Efforts to remove remaining debris and repair the reef began in 2011.\nSite exploration.\nIn 2004, divers from NOAA located wreckage believed to be from \"Pearl\" during a debris removal dive. They were not able to complete a full survey at the time due to the challenging site environment. The same dive team also located the wreck site of an unknown fishing vessel during the same trip, which they nicknamed the \"Oshima\" site as some of the components located were similar to the Japanese \"Oshima\" design. Among the components located were \"a six-cylinder Atlas Imperial diesel and machinery scatter, propeller shaft and propeller, a marine propulsion plant popular in the early decades of the 20th century.\" Researchers theorized that the wreckage was an East Asian fishing vessel that struck the reef sometime after 1918, based on the age of the components.\nMaritime archaeologists from the NOAA returned to the wreck site of \"Pearl\" in 2005 and 2006 to conduct further surveys. The 2005 survey was based on the NOAA research vessel \"Hi\u02bbialakai\". The same group also attempted to survey the nearby site of \"Hermes\", but were prevented by poor weather conditions. A number of artifacts were found at the \"Pearl\" site, including anchors, two cannons, and large try pots for rendering whale blubber. Many smaller artifacts were found actually embedded into the coral of the reef. The 2006 survey focused on completing a full site plan of the wreckage. In contrast to the scattered state of the \"Hermes\" site, the artifacts of the \"Pearl\" site are grouped roughly in the same configuration that they would have had on the intact ship, with site length being approximately the length the ship would have been.\nIn 2008, NOAA maritime archaeologists returned to the site of \"Hermes\" to complete the survey begun in 2005. The site was confirmed to be located about to the west of the \"Pearl\" site. A full site plan was completed, and both photographs and high definition video were made. The site contained similar artifacts to those found at the site of the \"Pearl\", including two anchors and four cannons. At least 33 cannonballs were found, stored in linear racks, as well as stores of musket balls. Finally, some 150 iron ballast pieces were found. The extremely scattered state of the wreckage seems to confirm that the \"Hermes\" broke apart quickly and scattered with force across the sea floor.\nFlora and fauna.\nPlant life.\nThe islets of the Pearl and Hermes Atoll support thirteen native plant species and seven introduced species, including coastal grasses, vines, and herbal plants. Invasive plant species are considered a major conservation issue on the atoll, as they often out-compete and replace native species. As an example, \"Setaria verticillata\", an undesirable noxious weed, has displaced the native grass \"Eragrostis variabilis\" on Southeast Island. An illegal landing by the military in the 1960s brought invasive field mustard seeds from Midway Atoll, which had to be removed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The flowering plant \"Verbesina encelioides\" has been identified as a major invasive threat since at least 2001. Although it provides food and nesting space for small songbirds, it poses a significant threat of entanglement to native seabirds, so removal is considered a priority for conservation purposes.\nAvian life.\nThe Pearl and Hermes Atoll is an important nesting area for many seabirds. Approximately 160,000 birds from 22 different species are known to live and breed on the Atoll. Tristram's storm petrels and black-footed albatrosses are among the most prominent. In 2001, it was reported that twenty percent of the world's population of black-footed albatrosses nested on Pearl and Hermes. Pearl and Hermes also hosts one of two known sites where little terns nest in Hawaii. In addition, the endangered Laysan finch was introduced to the island in 1967 to provide a backup population of these birds, should a hurricane, disease, rat introduction, or other disaster wipe out the population on the island of Laysan.\nInvertebrates.\nThe Pearl and Hermes Atoll provides an extensive and unique habitat for invertebrates, including various sponges and thirty-three species of stony corals. Some invasive invertebrate species have been found on the reef, including the orange-striped sea anemone, which is native to Japan, and the Christmas tree hydroid, which competes with native invertebrates for space.\nThe atoll was once heavily populated with black-lip pearl oysters, but overfishing from 1927 to 1930 caused the population to crash to only 470 in 1930. An expedition in 1950 turned up only six live oysters, and another in 1969 only found one. Surveys in 1994 and 2000 also found only a few oysters, and a full analysis by the NOAA in 2003 concluded that the population has never recovered to pre-harvesting levels.\nOther wildlife.\nThe Pearl and Hermes Atoll supports breeding populations of endangered Hawaiian monk seals and sea turtles. Spinner dolphins are known to mate in the area. According to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, \"the atoll has the highest standing stock of fish and the highest number of fish species in the NWHI\", including sabre squirrelfish, various eels, Galapagos sharks, Sandbar sharks, giant trevally or ulua, angelfish, \u0101weoweo or Hawaiian bigeyes, parrotfish, and various types of lobsters. Although they are rare in the rest of the Hawaiian Islands, masked angelfish and Japanese angelfish are common in the Pearl and Hermes Atoll.\nIn 2016, scientists from the Bishop Museum, working with the NOAA, described a new species of butterflyfish found off the Pearl and Hermes Atoll, at a depth of . It was named \"Prognathodes basabei\" in honor of diver Pete Basabe, who provided support to the dives that first discovered the species.\nConservation efforts.\nBecause of its small size, Pearl and Hermes Atoll has typically not been singled out for individual environmental protection; historically, it has been bundled with the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands as a protected region. The region was first protected in 1909 when U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt created the Hawaiian Islands Bird Reservation through , which included Pearl and Hermes Atoll. Over the next century, protection of the region increased incrementally, culminating in President George W. Bush signing in 2006, designating the waters of the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands a national monument under the 1906 Antiquities Act.\nThreats.\nDerelict fishing gear (ghost nets) and other types of marine debris have had a major impact on the reefs and associated fauna of the atoll. Pearl and Hermes Atoll is considered a high-risk entanglement zone for monk seals. Efforts have been undertaken to lessen the threat of this growing problem, including attempts at prevention as well as recurring debris removal projects. A multi-agency study was launched in 1999 to remove and catalogue debris from the water surrounding Lisianski Island and Pearl and Hermes Atoll. During this project, a total of of debris was removed from reefs and beaches around Pearl and Hermes. In 2000, the joint NOAA and NMFS Derelict Fishing Net Removal Project was launched, with the objective of removing fishing debris from the atoll and identifying any non-native species. In 2003, of marine debris was removed from the Pearl and Hermes reefs. In 2014, a net tangle weighing was located in the atoll. It was long, wide, and deep, and took three days to dismantle and remove.\nRising sea level is also a major concern for the atoll due to the extremely low elevation of most of the islands. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency projects that sea level will rise by the year 2100. Southeast Island is only above sea level, and would be almost entirely submerged if sea levels rise that much. The other islets would also lose significant amounts of land area. Estimates of total land area loss range from 15% to 65% in a scenario of median sea-level rise, threatening the habitats of monk seals, sea turtles, and nesting birds.\nIn 2016, a mysterious new red algae species known as \"Chondria tumulosa\" was spotted growing on the reefs. By 2019, it had smothered and killed large amounts of reef on the northeast section of the atoll. Analysis of the species and management techniques will be required to prevent the species from taking over other reefs on the atoll and the rest of the Northwest Hawaiian Islands.\nClimate.\nBecause there are no weather stations on the Pearl and Hermes Atoll, the following climate information is taken from sources for the Midway Atoll, which is approximately north-northwest of Pearl and Hermes. Like Midway, Pearl and Hermes has a tropical savanna climate (K\u00f6ppen classification \"Aw\"). The atoll has no cold season. Its wet season corresponds to the high-sun months, and its dry season corresponds to the low-sun months. "}
{"id": "708688", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708688", "title": "Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang", "text": "Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang is a science fiction novel by American writer Kate Wilhelm, published in 1976. The novel is composed of three parts, \"Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang,\" \"Shenandoah,\" and \"At the Still Point,\" and is set in a post-apocalyptic era, a concept popular among authors who took part in the New Wave Science Fiction movement in the 1960s.\nBefore the publication of Wilhelm's novel in 1976, part one of \"Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang\" was featured in the fifteenth edition of \"Orbit.\" Kate Wilhelm was a regular contributor to the \"Orbit\" anthology series, and assisted Damon Knight and other contributors with the anthology's editing. In its time, \"Orbit\" was known for publishing works of SF that differed from the mainstream of science fiction being published at the time.\nThe title of the book is a quotation from William Shakespeare's Sonnet 73.\nPlot summary.\nThe novel takes place in Virginia, somewhere near the Shenandoah River, and quickly establishes its plot line in a post-apocalyptic era. The collapse of civilization around the world has resulted from massive environmental changes and global disease, which were attributed to large-scale pollution. With a range of members privileged by virtue of education and monetary resources, one large family founds an isolated community in an attempt to survive the still-developing global disasters. As the death toll rises, mainly to disease and nuclear warfare, they discover that the human population left on earth is universally infertile. From cloning experiments conducted through the study of mice, the scientists in the small community theorize that the infertility might be reversed after multiple generations of cloning, and the family begins cloning themselves in an effort to survive. The assumption is that after a few generations of cloning, the people will be able to revert to traditional biological reproduction.\nHowever, to the horror of the few surviving members of the original group, the clones who are finally coming of age reject the idea of sexual reproduction in favor of further cloning. The original members of the community, too old and outnumbered by the clones to resist, are forced to accept the new social order and the complications that arise.\nThe new generations are cloned in groups of four to ten individuals, and due to a strong emotional and mental connection between the clones, they have a strong sense of empathy for one another. As the old generation dies out and the clones seek to expand their territory, they quickly discover that prolonged separation from other members of their group produces irreversible psychological stress. One woman, Molly, after being separated from her clones while on an expedition to find materials in the ruins of nearby cities, regains a \"human\" sense of individuality, which her fellow clones believe to be dangerous to the community. As a result of this, she is exiled.\nThough Molly is allowed to live by herself in peace, she is not allowed contact with the other clones except the members who bring her the supplies she needs. In secret, she goes on to have a child with Ben, one of the clones who accompanied her on the journey to the surrounding cities. After a few years of successful secrecy, she and the child are found, and although Molly and Ben are expelled from the community, the child, Mark, is allowed to stay. The clones, though wary of his threatening individuality, hope to study him in order to learn more about non-clones. As the child becomes a man, he realizes that his uniqueness gives him individuality and the ability to live away from the community, something which the clones are now unable to do. The leaders of the community realize that the latest generations of clones are losing all sense of creativity and are unable to come up with new solutions to problems; simultaneously they see that the growing lack of high-technology equipment will result in the community losing the ability to continue with the cloning process.\nAs the only \"naturally\" produced human in the community, Mark seeks his own solution to the problem, and by force he leads a group of fertile women and children to abandon the community and start over, leaving a trail of devastation to the clone community in the wake of his departure. He returns to the community twenty years later to discover that in the wake of this disaster, the clones, unable to survive with their limited adaptability, have perished and the village has been destroyed. At novel's end, Mark returns to the community he created, where all of the children and younger generations, products of conventional reproduction, continue to thrive.\nThe novel makes a passing reference to the end of global warming due to a decline in human pollution:\nMain characters.\nDavid.\nA very serious and dedicated scientist, David is a family member of the surviving colony of humans and a significant contributor to the creation of the first generation of clones, with which he has a tenuous relationship at best. He is in love with his cousin, Celia, and he is a donor with a batch of clones derived from his genes.\nCelia.\nAlso a family member in the original community, she is a small, but determined individual. She is a passionate person who seeks to help those suffering from the increasing global catastrophes, and assists with the development of sustainable farming methods in struggling countries. She is in love with David and is a gene donor for the production of clones.\nMolly.\nA member of a group of clones who are all inventive and artistic &lt;Wilhelm, K. 1977 Where late the Sweet birds sang. Pg. 63 Pocket ed.&gt;. Her clone group are 'The Miriam sisters' a group of six; Miriam the eldest, Molly, Miri, Melinda, Meg and Martha &lt;Wilhelm, K. 1977 Where late the Sweet birds sang. Pg. 64 Pocket ed.&gt;. Molly is a crew member of the first expedition to the outer cities, included for her ability to sketch and location memory, she suffers greatly from prolonged separation from her sisters. She is exiled to a house towards the far edges of the community and has a brief relationship with Ben. With Ben's assistance, she gives birth to Mark.\nBen.\nA scientist and a leader, he is also one of the original clones, along with his four brothers. He is a crew member of the first expedition, and suffers some psychological trauma from his separation from his brothers. He has a brief relationship with Molly, and is the biological father of Mark.\nBarry.\nAlso a scientist and one of Ben's brothers, he is a cautious man who resents the developed individuality of Molly, Ben, and the others who came back from the first expedition changed. Believing that the changed clones are a danger to the community, he takes a leadership position in the village after Molly and Ben are exiled.\nMark.\nThe child of Ben and Molly, Mark is the first sexually reproduced individual in the colony who is allowed to live in the village with the clones. Separated from his mother, he is rambunctious, and a trouble maker for Barry and the other members of the community. He is isolated in the community due his individuality and intentionally causes trouble for both the clones in his peer group and the rest of the population. Eventually, he develops an escape plan and finds a community outside the village.\nAwards.\n\"Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang\" is the winner of several science fiction awards, including:\n\"Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang\" was also nominated for the Nebula Award in 1977."}
{"id": "708692", "revid": "8444885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708692", "title": "Juana Molina", "text": "Juana Rosario Molina Villafa\u00f1e (; born 1 October 1961) is an Argentine singer, songwriter and former actress, based in Buenos Aires. She is known for her distinctive sound, considered an exponent of folktronica, although it has also been described as ambient, experimental, neofolk, chill-out, indietronica, psychedelic, indie pop, and progressive folk.\nThe daughter of tango singer and actress Chunchuna Villafa\u00f1e, she achieved fame as a sketch comedy actress in the 1990s, first as a guest in various shows and in 1991 with her show, \"Juana y sus hermanas\". At the height of her popularity, she quit her job as an actress to pursue a music career. Her debut album, \"Rara\", was subsequently released in 1996, and panned by local critics who resented her departure from television. Discouraged by the criticism, she moved to Los Angeles, where her music had been better received, and she familiarized herself with electronic instruments. She then returned to Buenos Aires to produce her second album, \"Segundo\", incorporating the sonic elements she had learned. Each one of her following albums has added a new complexity to her music, which is characterized by layered loops of acoustic and electronic sounds.\nDespite the initial negative reaction to her music in her home country, music critics have consistently acclaimed Molina's work, praising her music and experimentation. In 2013, \"El Pa\u00eds\" wrote, \"she established herself as the star of the avant-garde sound of her country in the world.\" Writing for \"The Guardian\", Robin Denselow called her the \"one-time Queen of Latin chill\" and wrote: \"[she] has built up a global cult following as one of the most experimental musicians in Argentina.\"\nEarly life.\nJuana Rosario Molina Villafa\u00f1e was born to a family of artists in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on October 1, 1961. She is the eldest daughter of Horacio Molina, a tango singer, and Chunchuna Villafa\u00f1e, an actress and model. She has a younger sister who has also worked as an actress and musician. The family lived in the central Buenos Aires \"barrio\" of Caballito. Her mother was a record collector, exposing her to various types of music. She began to learn to play the guitar at age 5. In 1967, Juana recorded her first song with her father, \"Te regalo esta canci\u00f3n\" (\"I gift you this song\"), as a gift to her mother for Mother's Day. Horacio Molina released the song as a single \u2014without his young daughter knowing\u2014which sold 45 thousand copies. She also performed the song live with her father on national television.\nIn 1976, the family left for Paris, France, due to the military dictatorship that overthrew President Isabel Per\u00f3n. While in Paris, she listened to what is now known as \"world music\" on French radio stations. In various interviews, Molina has recalled a visit to a Spanish hippie family friend who introduced her to Indian classical music, whose drones have had an enduring influence on her music. In 1981, Molina returned to Buenos Aires. To finance her architecture studies, she had various small jobs, including an unsuccessful experience as a backing vocalist in small bands.\nCareer.\nAs she could not make a living through music, Molina decided to find a job that paid well and did not consume much time. She decided on a career in television as the means to this end and spent some months looking for a show that could use her services. She recorded a homemade audition tape for the studio and was offered a contract the same day. Molina began her television career in 1988 with the ATC show \"La noticia rebelde\" (\"Rebel News\", a wordplay on \"La novicia rebelde\"), where she would record one day a week and get paid for five. Her popular sketches parodied \"porte\u00f1o\" women of various social classes. In October of the same year, Molina joined the cast of \"El mundo de Antonio Gasalla\" (\"Antonio Gasalla's World\"), led by comedy actor Antonio Gasalla. The show, which ran until 1990, further cemented her popularity as a sketch comedy actress and writer. The show was also performed live at the Teatro Gran Rex and in Mar del Plata.\nThe pinnacle of her success came with her show, \"Juana y sus hermanas\" (\"Juana and Her Sisters\", a wordplay on \"Hannah and Her Sisters\"), which premiered in 1991. Molina became Argentina's most popular comedian, having her show syndicated to other Latin American countries. Molina was dubbed \"the new Nin\u00ed Marshall\" by the press, and won two Mart\u00edn Fierro Awards. A compilation album of songs by Molina featured in the show was released. In 1993 Molina became pregnant with her only child, Francisca, and had to suspend her show. Reflecting on her rapid rise to stardom and distance from the music career she had always wanted, the actress canceled the show in 1994. She recalls: \"There was a moment when I imagined myself watching MTV as a decrepit old woman (like MTV would last a lifetime), thinking 'I could have done that.' I pictured myself feeling an infinite grudge, hatred, and envy.\"\nProduced by Gustavo Santaolalla and recorded in 1995, Molina's debut album, \"Rara\", was released in 1996. The album was poorly marketed; Micaela Ortelli of \"P\u00e1gina/12\" wrote: \"Never did an Argentine radio play a song from that album, \u2013 too pop to be folk and too folk, perhaps, to be radio material.\" Live shows were also problematic, as audiences expected her to act like on television. The album was better received in Los Angeles, where Molina settled in 1998. Having learned how to record her music, she began to self-produce new material at the request of DreamWorks Records. Although the company ultimately did not sign her, these recordings would become \"Segundo\", her second studio album. By 2000, she had finished recording the album and, back in Buenos Aires, she met Daniel Melero, who mixed the record. The music of \"Segundo\" was the result of Molina's new insights into timbre and her meeting with Alejandro Franov, who taught her \"the endless sound possibilities that keyboards allow.\" Despite remaining virtually unknown in her native country, Molina's music found success in Japan, and, to a lesser extent, in Europe. American musician David Byrne bought \"Segundo\" \u2014 intrigued by its artwork \u2014 and quickly became an admirer of the record. He contacted Molina, and she became the opening act of his American tour.\nAppearances in other media.\nMolina gained wider exposure with North American public radio listeners when Jad Abumrad used her music to score a 2008 episode of \"Radiolab\" and produced a bonus podcast featuring an interview with Molina and a remix of her song \"Un d\u00eda.\" Molina's song, \"Sin dones\", from \"Halo\", was used on the episode \"Things Bad Begun\" in Season 3 of the show \"Fear the Walking Dead\" in 2017."}
{"id": "708695", "revid": "28903366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708695", "title": "Wc (Unix)", "text": " (short for word count) is a command in Unix, Plan 9, Inferno, and Unix-like operating systems. The program reads either standard input or a list of computer files and generates one or more of the following statistics: newline count, word count, and byte count. If a list of files is provided, both individual file and total statistics follow.\nExample.\nSample execution of wc:\n $ wc foo bar\n 40 149 947 foo\n 2294 16638 97724 bar\n 2334 16787 98671 total\nThe first column is the count of newlines, meaning that the text file codice_1 has 40 newlines while codice_2 has 2294 newlines- resulting in a total of 2334 newlines. The second column indicates the number of words in each text file showing that there are 149 words in codice_1 and 16638 words in codice_2 giving a total of 16787 words. The last column indicates the number of characters in each text file, meaning that the file codice_1 has 947 characters while codice_2 has 97724 characters 98671 characters all in all.\nNewer versions of codice_7 can differentiate between byte and character count. This difference arises with Unicode which includes multi-byte characters. The desired behaviour is selected with the codice_8 or codice_9 options.\nThrough a pipeline, it can also be used to preview the output size of a command with a potentially large output, without it printing the text into the console:\n$ grep -r \"example\" |wc\n 1071 23337 101349\nHistory.\n is part of the X/Open Portability Guide since issue 2 of 1987. It was inherited into the first version of POSIX.1 and the Single Unix Specification. It appeared in Version 1 Unix.\nGNU codice_7 used to be part of the GNU textutils package; it is now part of GNU coreutils. The version of codice_7 bundled in GNU coreutils was written by Paul Rubin and David MacKenzie.\nA codice_7 command is also part of ASCII's \"MSX-DOS2 Tools\" for MSX-DOS version 2.\nThe command is available as a separate package for Microsoft Windows as part of the GnuWin32 project and the UnxUtils collection of native Win32 ports of common GNU Unix-like utilities.\nThe command has also been ported to the IBM i operating system."}
{"id": "708699", "revid": "47284705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708699", "title": "Conservative People's Party (Germany)", "text": "The Conservative People's Party (German: , KVP) was a short-lived conservative and Christian democratic political party of the moderate right in the last years of the Weimar Republic. It broke away from the German National People's Party (DNVP) in July 1930 as a result of the DNVP's increasing shift to the right under the leadership of Alfred Hugenberg. It remained a numerically insignificant minor party but was represented in the governments of Heinrich Br\u00fcning (1930\u20131932). The KVP folded on 31\u00a0March 1933 after it ran out of funds.\nName.\nThe term (popular conservative) was probably first used by journalist Hermann Ullmann in 1926. He had in mind conservatives of both the Catholic and Protestant faiths whose fundamental attitude was Christian, social and anti-nationalist. In the two years that followed, became a collective term for those in the DNVP who opposed the party's 1928 shift to the right and wanted to continue the earlier cooperation with the Catholic Centre Party. The term is also found in a 1927 essay by DNVP politician Walther Lambach, \"Monarchism\", which stated that the DNVP should not be one-sidedly monarchist but a \"popular conservative party of self-help\".\nAmong older DNVP members such as Kuno Graf von Westarp and in the conservative monarchist newspaper \"Kreuzzeitung\", the name was controversial. The \"Kreuzzeitung\" said that the original name \"Volkskonservative Vereinigung\" (People's Conservative Association) weakened the clear term \"conservative\", although Hermann Ullmann defended the new name because he thought that \"conservative\" should never again be understood as \"reactionary\".\nHistory.\nFormation.\nThe new party grew out of criticism in parts of the DNVP of the policies of the publisher Alfred Hugenberg, who had ousted Kuno von Westarp from the post of party chairman in 1928. Hugenberg's active support for the 1929 referendum against the Young Plan that finalized a schedule for German reparations payments to the victors of World War I, and the DNVP's cooperation during the referendum drive with the Nazi Party (NSDAP), met with party members' particular disapproval. When the bill resulting from the referendum, the \"Law against the Enslavement of the German People\", was put to a vote in the Reichstag, about twenty out of 73 DNVP deputies refused to follow Hugenberg. He responded with party expulsion proceedings. Gottfried Treviranus and other deputies resigned from the party and von Westarp from the chairmanship of the parliamentary group. Some of the dissidents joined the Christian Social People's Service and others the Christian-National Peasants' and Farmers' Party.\nA group around Treviranus and Walther Lambach formed the People's Conservative Association at a meeting in the Prussian House of Lords on 28\u00a0January 1930. Initially the association was not to be a party, only a means to gather like-minded people together in order to bring the DNVP back to its former course. The provisional People's Conservative Association became a kind of supra-regional political club. In the House of Lords, Treviranus said that the DNVP had to decide between a conservative and a National Socialist course and that the People's Conservative Association was ready to merge into a large right-of-center party. Because of this it had no party program.\nA few months later, there were once again splits in the DNVP due to its stance with regard to the government of Chancellor Heinrich Br\u00fcning of the Centre Party. A group around von Westarp left the party, came together with the People's Conservative Association and formed the Conservative People's Party.\nParticipation in government.\nThe party supported Br\u00fcning's center-right policy. From March 1930 to May 1932 Gottfried Treviranus served in the government in various ministerial positions, including Minister for the Occupied Territories and Minister of Transport. His presence in the cabinet gave the party a weight beyond its tiny representation in parliament, which was just four seats out of 577 after the September 1930 election. With Br\u00fcning's dismissal in May 1932, Treviranus' tenure as minister also ended, and with it the KVP's participation in political power. The KVP did not run in the July 1932 election, the first in which the Nazi Party won the largest number of seats.\nOutside of parliament.\nIn the period of the presidential cabinets that followed Br\u00fcning, the KVP was no longer represented in parliament. They reacted to the government of Franz von Papen with wait-and-see skepticism. They expected a prolonged era of reaction and were critical of the curtailment of unemployment insurance and of Papen's foreign policy, but they initially welcomed the 1932 Prussian coup d'\u00e9tat, when Reich President Paul von Hindenburg replaced the legal government of the Free State of Prussia by von Papen as Reich Commissioner.\nInitially the party distanced itself from Reich Chancellor Kurt von Schleicher \u2013 the last Chancellor before Adolf Hitler\u00a0\u2013 but later, out of necessity, took a more positive stance towards his government. Even if they formed no strong ties with him, the party's attitude became more favorable when he returned to Br\u00fcning's policies. Heinz D\u00e4hnhardt, one of the original founders of the KVP, said that Schleicher was the only alternative to Hitler. In doing so, he echoed the opinion of the influential German National Association of Commercial Employees, which had previously favored a coalition between the National Socialists and the Centre Party.\nThe KVP viewed Adolf Hitler and his program with uncertainty. It was not clear to them what a term like \"Third Reich\" was supposed to mean. Even on 18\u00a0February 1933, when Hitler was already chancellor, they were still saying that a fascist experiment could not last long and that the only possible form of government for Germany in the future would be an authoritarian state. The crisis of the KVP was clearly reflected in the contradictory recommendations that were issued for the Reichstag elections on March 5. Some were for the Combat Front Black-White-Red made up of the DNVP and its paramilitary wing the Stahlhelm, and some for the Christian Social People's Service and indirectly also for the National Socialists.\nOn 31\u00a0March 1933, the KVP folded due to lack of funds, and Heinz D\u00e4hnhardt destroyed the party's archives on 1\u00a0May 1933. Like all other remaining parties, the KVP was banned by law on 14\u00a0July 1933. Treviranus fled abroad in mid-1934, narrowly escaping the Night of the Long Knives.\nProgram.\nThe Conservative People's Party called for an end to the \"system of disorderly mass rule, by means of a state structured in accordance with the historical development and natural segmentation of the people\". What was meant by this was a constitution oriented around occupational class.\nIn its 1930 election appeal, the KVP advocated a nationalist but moderate foreign policy, calling for a revision of \"tribute burdens\" (First World War reparations), a referendum for the three cantons known as Eupen-Malmedy that had been ceded to Belgium at the end of the war, the return to Germany of the Saar basin, also lost in the war, and a new border in the East. In domestic policy, the party wanted an unspecified reform of functions at the federal and state level, a strengthening of local self-government, and secure positions for public servants. Instead of \"party and program elections\", \"elections of individuals\" were to be introduced.\nEconomically, the KVP wanted to see a \"viable market\" and independent trade that was to be protected from competition and nationalization. Occupational-class structures were to be expanded. Culture promoted by the state had to be \"consistent with the principles of the Christian doctrines of salvation and morality\".\nStructure.\nThe People's Conservative Association and then the People's Conservative Party had a national office in Berlin. According to its statutes of 17\u00a0December 1930, the KVP had a 25-member Reich Executive Committee that was elected for a two-year term. It in turn elected the eleven-member Reich Executive Board which included the party chairman and the editor of the party newspaper (People's Conservative Voices). A member of the executive committee had responsibility for day-to-day management. The first chairman was Treviranus, then from December 15 Paul Lejeune-Jung. After he resigned in 1932, Heinz D\u00e4hnhardt took over management. The KVP had little presence in the German states.\nThe People's Conservative Association, which was temporarily revived alongside the KVP, adopted a charter in 1931 according to which it strove for \"the political unification of all forces\" that were \"determined to fight for a free, vigorously led German state in the spirit of the 'Conservative Manifesto' of 15\u00a0February 1931\". Any German could become a member. The general meeting, the \"Conservative Reich Convention\", elected a \"Leadership Ring\" for two years, which chose a speaker. Reichstag and Landtag (state parliament) deputies were not allowed to be members, but instead belonged to a \"Parliamentary Ring\".\nBeginning in 1930, the association published a series of People's Conservative pamphlets and, for its employees, the People's Conservative Leadership Letters. In addition, the People's Conservatives had contacts with the newspapers and the \"Deutsche Allgemeine Zeitung\".\nSignificance.\nThe Conservative People's Party saw itself as the core of a movement around which the bourgeoisie could crystallize. That, however, did not happen, and the organization remained a party without a mass following or a party apparatus worth mentioning. In particular, unlike the DNVP, it lacked the support of the agrarian interest groups in the conservative strongholds of eastern Prussia. In 1930, it had just 10,000 members. It received considerable financial support from industry, which rejected Hugenberg's anti-governmental policies.\nIn elections, the party remained largely unsuccessful. In the Reichstag elections of 1930, it won four seats through a combined list with the (Farmers' Party). But even in that election, it gained only about 300,000 votes, or 0.8% of the votes cast. It achieved its only mandate at the state level in 1930, in the parliamentary elections in Bremen. The attempt to unite the bourgeois parties, including the KVP, failed in 1932, as the result of which the KVP did not run in the 1932 Reichstag elections. That marked the end of its meaningful political activity."}
{"id": "708700", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708700", "title": "Black-necked weaver", "text": "The black-necked weaver (Ploceus nigricollis) is a resident breeding bird species in much of central Africa from Cameroon in the west to Kenya and southern Somalia in the east.\nTaxonomy and systematics.\nThe species was formally described in 1805 by the French ornithologist Louis Pierre Vieillot, who named it \"Malimbus nigricollis\". The description was based on a specimen that had been collected near Malimbe, now Malembo, in the Cabinda Province of Angola. The species epithet \"nigricollis\" combines the Latin words Latin words, \"niger\" meaning \"black\" and \"collis\" meaning \"necked\".\nSubspecies.\nThere are two subspecies recognized:\nThe black-necked weaver was formerly considered to be conspecific with the olive-naped weaver. The two species differ in plumage and in the colour of the iris. A molecular study published in 2019 found that the two species are genetically very similar.\nDescription.\nThe black-necked weaver is a stocky 16\u00a0cm bird with a strong conical bill. The adult male of the northern race has olive upper-parts and wings, and yellow underparts and head. It has a black eye-mask and bib, and a pale yellow iris. The non-breeding male has a yellow head with an olive crown, grey upper-parts and whitish. The wings remain yellow and black.\nThe adult female also has olive upper-parts and wings, and yellow underparts and head. It has a black eyemask but no bib.\nThe southern race found from Nigeria eastwards has a quite different appearance, with almost black upper-parts and tail.\nThe black-necked weaver feeds on insects and vegetable matter. The calls of this bird include a wheezing \"dew-dew-twee\" .\nDistribution and habitat.\nThis weaver occurs in forests, especially in wet habitats.\nBehaviour and ecology.\nIt builds a large coarsely woven nest made of grass and creepers with a 15\u00a0cm downward facing entrance tunnel hanging from the globular egg chamber. The nest is suspended from a branch in a tree and 2-3 eggs are laid. It nests in pairs but forms small flocks when not breeding."}
{"id": "708701", "revid": "51297757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708701", "title": "Saigy\u014d", "text": " was a Japanese poet of the late Heian and early Kamakura period.\nBiography.\nBorn in Kyoto to a noble family, he lived during the traumatic transition of power between the old court nobles and the new samurai warriors. After the start of the age of Mapp\u014d, Buddhism was considered to be in decline and no longer as effective a means of salvation. These cultural shifts during his lifetime led to a sense of melancholy in his poetry. As a youth, he worked as a guard to retired Emperor Toba, but in 1140 at age 22, for reasons now unknown, he quit worldly life to become a monk, taking the religious name .\nHe later took the pen name , meaning \"Western Journey\", a reference to Amida Buddha and the Western paradise. He lived alone for long periods in his life in Saga, Mt. Koya, Mt. Yoshino, Ise, and many other places, but he is more known for the many long, poetic journeys he took to Northern Honsh\u016b that would later inspire Bash\u014d in his \"Narrow Road to the Interior\".\nHe was a good friend of Fujiwara no Teika.\n is Saigy\u014d's personal poetry collection. Other collections that include poems by Saigy\u014d are the \"Shin Kokin Wakash\u016b\" and the \"Shika Wakash\u016b\".\nHe died at Hirokawa Temple in Kawachi Province (present-day Osaka Prefecture) at age 72.\nStyle.\nIn Saigy\u014d's time, the \"Man'y\u014dsh\u016b\" was no longer a big influence on waka poetry, compared to the \"Kokin Wakash\u016b\". Where the \"Kokin Wakash\u016b\" was concerned with subjective experience, word play, flow, and elegant diction (neither colloquial nor pseudo-Chinese), the \"Shin Kokin Wakash\u016b\" (formed with poetry written by Saigy\u014d and others writing in the same style) was less subjective, had fewer verbs and more nouns, was not as interested in word play, allowed for repetition, had breaks in the flow, was slightly more colloquial and more somber and melancholic. Due to the turbulent times, Saigy\u014d focuses not just on \"mono no aware\" (sorrow from change) but also on \"sabi\" (loneliness) and \"kanashi\" (sadness). Though he was a Buddhist monk, Saigy\u014d was still very attached to the world and the beauty of nature.\nPoetry examples.\nMany of his best-known poems express the tension he felt between renunciatory Buddhist ideals and his love of natural beauty. Most monks would have asked to die facing West, to be welcomed by the Buddha, but Saigy\u014d finds the Buddha in the flowers:\nTo be \"heartless\" was an ideal of Buddhist monkhood, meaning one had abandoned all desire and attachment:\nSaigy\u014d travelled extensively, but one of his favorite places was Mount Yoshino, famous for its cherry blossoms:"}
{"id": "708705", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708705", "title": "Infield Fly", "text": ""}
{"id": "708706", "revid": "95594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708706", "title": "Shinkokinshu", "text": ""}
{"id": "708710", "revid": "10202399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708710", "title": "Ben Gillies", "text": "Benjamin David Gillies (born 24 October 1979) is an Australian musician, best known as the drummer of Australian rock band Silverchair from 1992 until the band went on hiatus in 2011. In 2003, Gillies formed Tambalane with Wes Carr, initially as a songwriting project; they released a self-titled album in 2005 and toured Australia but subsequently folded. By June 2011, after Silverchair's disbandment, Gillies was in the final stages of about 12\u00a0months of working on his solo album, and he said that it was not a continuation of his earlier work with Tambalane. In 2012, he formed Bento, in which he performs lead vocals, and released the band's debut album \"Diamond Days\".\nCareer.\nBenjamin David Gillies was born on 24 October 1979 in Merewether, a suburb of Newcastle. He started as a quad drummer in the band The Marching Koalas, before forming a grunge group, Innocent Criminals, at the age of 12 with friends Daniel Johns, Chris Joannou, and Tobin Finnane. Playing originally at school and other venues in the Newcastle area, they came to attention after a weekend music workshop at the Tanilba Bay Progress Hall funded through the Arts Council of New South Wales in March 1994. By October 1994, under their new name Silverchair, their first EP \"Tomorrow\" had reached No.\u00a01 on the ARIA Singles Chart. Silverchair went on to release five No.\u00a01 albums, \"Frogstomp\" (1995), \"Freak Show\" (1997), \"Neon Ballroom\" (1999), \"Diorama\" (2002) and \"Young Modern\" (2007).\nGillies formed the band Tambalane in 2002 while Silverchair was in hiatus following Johns' illness, releasing a self-titled album featuring the singles \"Little Miss Liar\" and \"Free\" before the band folded in 2005. He then returned to work with Silverchair.\nIn May 2011, Silverchair announced an \"indefinite hibernation\" and that they were not likely to work together \"in the foreseeable future\". By June, Gillies was in the final stages of working on his solo album, he had been working on it for about 12\u00a0months and said that it was not a continuation of his earlier work with Tambalane.\nIn 2020, Gillies released the songs \"Breathe In, Breathe Out\" and \"One Foot in Front of The Other\".\nIn 2021, Gillies released the song \"Yesteryear\" which became a track on his five-song EP \"The Relative Relatives\". \nPersonal life.\nIn June 2010, Gillies married Jakica 'Jackie' Ivancevic. His wife, known as Jackie Gillies, works as a professional psychic and featured on the TV series \"The Real Housewives of Melbourne\". \nIn February 2018, Gillies was charged with mid-range drunk driving. During an interview with the ABC's Australian Story in September 2023, Ben revealed he had been dealing with anxiety ever since experiencing an acute psychotic break at the height of Silverchair's fame, when his first ecstasy pill, combined with a heavy marijuana habit, \"pushed me over the edge\".\nHe said he was able to beat his addictions, including heavy drinking, following an ultimatum from his wife Jackie.\nIn September 2020, Gillies was interviewed as a special guest on an episode of the \"Too Much of Not Enough\" Silverchair podcast, produced by Australian fan Daniel Hedger.\nIn October 2021, Gillies and his wife welcomed twin babies after multiple rounds of IVF.\nIn 2023, Gillies and his wife competed on the seventh season of \"The Amazing Race Australia\"."}
{"id": "708712", "revid": "10199389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708712", "title": "Chris Joannou", "text": "Christopher John Joannou (born 10 November 1979) is a Macedonian-Australian musician best known as the bassist for the Newcastle-based alternative rock band Silverchair. He is a twin to sister Louise Kipa. He was the first of the three band members to cut his long hair short. Joannou was nicknamed 'Lumberjack' by Silverchair fans for his love of trees and plaid shirts.\nAs well as being a well-known bassist, Joannou was the assistant producer for The Mess Hall albums \"Feeling Sideways\" and the ARIA award\u2013winning \"Notes From A Ceiling\".\nHe has used mainly G&amp;L and Fender Precision Basses, and he almost exclusively uses Ampeg B-15 Portaflex combos. As reported to gearwire.com, Joannou uses an Ampeg SVT-2 into an Ampeg 810 cabinet and a new Ampeg B-15 combo in his live setup.\nIn 2006, Joannou spoke at the launch of a mental health scholarship set up to honour his cousin Nathan Trepezanov, who died by suicide at the age of 21 in January of that year. Joannou is of Macedonian heritage.\nBusiness ventures.\nJoannou is a co-founder and co-owner of the Lovells Lager beer company. He is also one of four businessmen who opened a bar and small entertainment venue on Parry Street in the West End of Newcastle, NSW, Australia, which opened in December 2013."}
{"id": "708715", "revid": "1455149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708715", "title": "Novitiate", "text": "The novitiate, also called the noviciate, is the period of training and preparation that a Christian \"novice\" (or \"prospective\") monastic, apostolic, or member of a religious order undergoes prior to taking vows in order to discern whether they are called to vowed religious life. It often includes times of intense study, prayer, living in community, studying the vowed life, deepening one's relationship with God, and deepening one's self-awareness. In the Catholic Church, the canonical time of the novitiate is one year; in case of additional length, it must not be extended over two years. In religious communities belonging to the Evangelical-Lutheran Churches, the duration of the novitiate depends on the specific Evangelical-Lutheran monastery or convent; for example, for the Sisters of St. Francis at Klaradals Convent, the time spent as a novice is typically two to three years. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the novitiate is officially set at three years before one may be tonsured a monk or nun, though this requirement may be waived. The novitiate is in any case a time both for the novice to get to know the community and the community to get to know the novice. The novice should aspire to deepening their relationship to God and discovering the community's charism. The novitiate in many communities includes a concentrated program of prayer, study, reflection and limited ministerial engagement.\nThe novitiate, through which life in an institute is begun, is arranged so that the novices better understand their divine vocation, and indeed one which is proper to the institute, experience the manner of living of the institute, and form their mind and heart in its spirit, and so that their intention and suitability are tested.\nIn some novitiate communities, mostly monastic, the novice often wears clothing that is distinct from secular dress but is not the full habit worn by professed members of the community. The novices' day normally includes participation in the canonical hours, manual labor, and classes about the religious life. Spiritual exercises and tests of humility are common features of a novitiate.\nA superior should ideally appoint an experienced member of the community to serve as novice master or mistress.\nDifferent religious communities have varying requirements for the duration of the novitiate. The novice must complete a postulancy before being admitted to the novitiate, the duration of which can be short or extend up to three years.\nA novice is free to leave the novitiate at any time and in most communities, the superiors are free to dismiss them with or without cause. At the end of the novitiate, the novices are either admitted to temporary vows or asked to leave. The binding, life-long commitment to consecrated life comes at a later point.\nThe term \"novitiate\" also refers to the building, house, or complex devoted to the novices' cells or dormitory and other needs, such as study and education."}
{"id": "708716", "revid": "11487052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708716", "title": "Riverside Geyser", "text": "Riverside Geyser is a geyser in Yellowstone National Park in the U.S. state of Wyoming.\nThe geyser is located on the Firehole River within the Upper Geyser Basin. The geyser shoots steam and water to heights of 75 feet (23 m) in an arch over the river, sometimes causing rainbows. The eruptions occur every 51\u20442 to 7 hours. As is Old Faithful, Riverside is one of the most predictable geysers in the park, because it is not located near any other geysers that may disrupt the flow of underground water in the geyser's plumbing. Riverside is unique in its way that eruptions rarely happen at the average interval for any given time. Instead, Riverside is bimodal, meaning it usually erupts 20 minutes before or 25 minutes late for a duration of 20 minutes. For an hour or two before the eruption, water pours over the edge of the cone. The geyser was named by the Hayden Geological Survey of 1871.\nThe geyser is one of the most reliable geysers in Yellowstone, despite the moniker and reputation of the better-known Old Faithful."}
{"id": "708718", "revid": "4842600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708718", "title": "Geelong Airport", "text": "Geelong Airport was a small airfield specifically for light aircraft located in Mount Duneed, Victoria, Australia. It was primarily used for scenic flights and private aircraft, and was located in the local government area of the City of Greater Geelong.\nThe airport contained two gravel/tarmac runways: north/south and east/west. Though commercial airlines had attempted to fly services to Geelong in the past, they chose to use the more developed airport at Avalon, located to the south-west of Melbourne. Operations from Avalon also proved to be unsuccessful. Other airports in the area are at Barwon Heads , the Torquay Airport and the \"Tiger Moth World\" at 325 Blackgate Rd.\nThe site is also used to record wind and weather measurements for the area. Geelong airport was sold to property developers to allow for the expansion of the urban sprawl of Geelong. The airport closed on 31 December 2011.\nSince 2011 closure and later redevelopment, only the former office building and a hangar remained. While the hangar has been retained for future use, the office building, although repainted, was allowed to decay and became a target for vandalism. On 10 September 2022, a suspicious fire damaged the office building beyond repair. It was demolished a month later."}
{"id": "708719", "revid": "1455149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708719", "title": "Novice", "text": "A novice is a person who has entered a religious order and is under probation, before taking vows. A \"novice\" can also refer to a person (or animal e.g. racehorse) who is entering a profession with no prior experience.\nReligion.\nBuddhism.\nIn many Buddhist orders, a man or woman who intends to take ordination must first become a novice, adopting part of the monastic code indicated in the vinaya and studying in preparation for full ordination. The name for this level of ordination varies from one tradition to another. In Pali, the word is samanera, which means 'small monk' or 'boy monk'.\nChristianity.\nCatholicism.\nA novice in Catholic canon law and tradition is a prospective member of a religious order who is being tried and assessed for suitability of admission to a religious order of priests, religious brothers, or religious sisters, whether the community is one of monks or has an apostolate. After initial contact with the community, and usually a period of time as a postulant (a period of candidacy in which the aspirant lives with the community), the person will be received as a novice in a ceremony that most often involves being clothed with the religious habit (traditional garb) of the particular religious community. The novice's habit is often slightly different from those of professed members of the order. For instance, in communities of women that wear a black veil, novices often wear a white one, sometimes, for example among the Trappists, also a white scapular instead of the black of the professed; among Franciscan communities of men, novices wear an additional shirt-like chest piece over the traditional Franciscan robe; Carthusian novices wear a dark cloak over the usual white habit; etc.\nNovices are not admitted to vows until they have successfully completed the prescribed period of training and proving, called the novitiate. This usually lasts at least one year, the minimum required by Canon Law, though in some orders and communities it is two. Novices typically have cells or a dormitory in separate areas within a monastery or community and are under the direct supervision of a novice master or novice mistress.\nEvangelical Lutheranism.\nIn communities belonging to the Evangelical-Lutheran Churches, the period of the novitiate starts after postulancy. The period of postulancy depends on the specific Evangelical-Lutheran monastery or convent. For example, for the Sisters of St. Francis at Klaradals Convent, the time spent as a novice is typically two to three years. In the Order of Lutheran Franciscans, this period lasts for a minimum of five years.\nAnglicanism.\nIn Anglicanism, the novitiate is the period of time where a novice is trained as a member of the religious order or monastery.\nEastern Orthodoxy.\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, a candidate may be clothed as a novice (Slavonic: \u043f\u043e\u0441\u043b\u0443\u0448\u043d\u0438\u043a, \"poslushnik\", literally \"one under obedience\") by the hegumen (abbot) or hegumenia (abbess) after at least three days in the monastery. There is no formal ceremony for the clothing of a novice; he or she is simply given the riassa, belt and skoufos. Novice nuns additionally wear a veil (apostolnik) that covers the head and neck. A novice is also given a prayer rope and instructed in the use of the Jesus Prayer. In large communities, the new novice may be assigned a starets (spiritual father or spiritual mother) who will guide his (or her) spiritual development. Frequent confession of sins and participation in the sacred mysteries (sacraments) of the church is an important part of Orthodox monastic life.\nA novice is free to leave the monastery at any time, and the superior is free to dismiss the novice at any time if, for instance, they feel that the novice is not called to monasticism or if there have been issues of discipline. If, however, the novice perseveres, after a period of around three years, the hegumen may choose to clothe them in the first (beginning) rank of monasticism: the rassaphore.\nBruderhof.\nIn the Bruderhof Communities, which are a Conservative Anabaptist denomination, novices are those who are interested in becoming members. They take part in the life of the Church. \"Until accepted into membership, they retain ownership of any property not expressly contributed, but they must disclose their temporal affairs and must make arrangements with the community for how these are to be managed during their novitiate.\" After the novitiate period, novices may request to become members of the Bruderhof Community.\nMandaeism.\nIn Mandaeism, novices who are being initiated into the Mandaean priesthood are called \"\u0161ualia\" ().\nSports.\nIn National Hunt racing, a novice is a horse that has not won a race under a particular code (either chasing or hurdling) before the current season.\nIn figure skating competitions, novice has two meanings. For the U.S. Figure Skating Association, it refers to a skill level, while the International Skating Union uses it to designate age.\nNovice is a level of minor hockey in Canada. Novice players are usually between the ages of 7 and 8.\nIn the sport of crew (rowing), the term is used for an athlete in their first year of competition.\nIn many sports, a novice athlete competing in their first season or league is often referred to as a rookie, and outstanding novice athletes can win Rookie of the Year.\nOnline communities.\nWith the rise of the internet, a \"novice\" could be a person who is a newcomer to a particular website, forum, or other social community. These people are usually inexperienced and unfamiliar with the traditions and protocols surrounding that community.\nGenerally derogatory slang terms include \"newbie\" and the more derogatory \"noob\". Newbie is mostly used as a descriptor or qualifier, a name given to novices by more experienced users or community members to indicate someone who just entered the community and is eager to learn and participate. Noob is a word used to insult or deride novices who are disrespectful, uninterested, or unwilling to learn.\nIn gamer culture, a newbie is an inexperienced player with a low level, rank, or in-game abilities but wants to participate and improve, and a noob is a bad player who seems disinterested in learning or teamwork and trolls other players.\nDealing with newcomers.\nOnline communities have five basic problems regarding newcomers: recruitment, selection, retention, socialization, and protection.\nRecruitment in online communities is about advertising to recruits and ensuring there is a healthy amount of newcomers because without newcomers, online communities can fail to survive. There many different methods that online communities use to recruit new members. For example, Blizzard entertainment used both impersonal advertisement (TV, print, online advertisement) and interpersonal advertisement (recruit-a-friend promotion) to recruit new players for World of Warcraft.\nSelection in online communities is about making sure that the newcomers will be a good fit in the community. This is very important because a better fit is more likely to be beneficial for the community, since better fit newcomers stay in the group longer when they join and are more satisfied with their membership. One way that selection works in online communities is through the process of self-selection, in which the potential members decide themselves to join a community based on the information about the community available to them. Another way of selection is through screening, in which the community selects certain members who they believe will be a good fit.\nRetention in online communities is about making sure that the newcomers stick around and stay long enough to become more committed members, who take on more important responsibilities and begin to be identify themselves with the group. One way that online communities work on retention is through the use of entry barriers and initiation rituals because making it difficult to join should increase their commitment. For example, in World of Warcraft, newcomers have to play with other guild members for at least about a month to join.\nSocialization in online communities about the rest of community interacting with newcomer and teaching them the guidelines and standards of the community. For example, in World of Warcraft, old member show the newcomers ropes, by coaching them, helping them with quests, and providing mentorship in general.\nProtection in online communities is about protecting the community from the newcomers. Since newcomers still have not established themselves with the group or still may be unfamiliar with the norms of the community, the rest of the community has to beware of the potential damage that they can cause. One way to deal with the threats is through the use of sandboxes, which allows newcomers to try out the features and learn about the tools without causing damage to the community."}
{"id": "708720", "revid": "48643156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708720", "title": "Governor of Puerto Rico", "text": "The governor of Puerto Rico () is the head of government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, an unincorporated territory of the United States. Elected to unlimited four-year terms through popular vote by the residents of the archipelago and island, the governor is the head of the executive branch of the government of Puerto Rico and the commander-in-chief of the Puerto Rico National Guard. Currently, Jenniffer Gonz\u00e1lez-Col\u00f3n is serving as the 190th governor of Puerto Rico.\nThe governor has a duty to enforce local laws, to convene the Legislative Assembly, the power to either approve or veto bills passed by the Legislative Assembly, to appoint government officers, to appoint justices, and to grant pardons. Since 1948, the governor has been elected by the people of Puerto Rico. Prior to that, the governor was appointed either by the king of Spain (1510\u20131898) or the president of the United States (1898\u20131948).\nArticle IV of the Constitution of Puerto Rico vests the executive power on the governor and empowers them with the faculty to appoint officers. These two faculties in allow the governor to delegate most of their functions while continuing to be the chief executive and head of government.\nHistory.\nThe first known and recorded heads of government in the history of Puerto Rico were the \"caciques\", the tribal chiefs of the natives known as \"Ta\u00ednos\" that inhabited the island before the arrival of Spaniards. It is believed that the \"cacique\" rank was apparently established through democratic means. His importance in the tribe was determined by the size of his tribe rather than his warlord skills, since the Ta\u00ednos were mostly a pacifist culture. Ag\u00fceyban\u00e1 I is the most-well known cacique as he was the one governing all others when the Spaniards arrived in 1493 although many others existed during his period, as well as before and after him.\nSpanish colonial era.\nWhen the Spanish Empire colonized Puerto Rico during the 16th century, the Spanish conquistador Juan Ponce de Le\u00f3n established himself as the island's first governor. Vicente Y\u00e1\u00f1ez Pinz\u00f3n had been appointed to take the position of Captain General of the City of Puerto Rico prior to the island's colonization, but he never performed this function. As part of the Spanish Empire, the Spanish monarchy was in charge of appointing the governor of Puerto Rico. The person selected was in charge of the island's development and wealth and was responsible for reporting the colony's status to the government in Spain.\nThe first native Puerto Rican to perform the function was Juan Ponce de Le\u00f3n II, grandson of the conquistador, who served as interim governor in 1579.\nAfter 1580 Puerto Rico's government was established as the Captaincy General of Puerto Rico, and subsequent governors held the office of Captain General as well.\nAs a United States unincorporated territory.\nOn July 25, 1898, at the outbreak of the Spanish\u2013American War, Puerto Rico was invaded by the United States. Following the conclusion of the war, Spain was forced to cede Puerto Rico, along with Cuba, the Philippines and Guam, to the United States under the 1898 Treaty of Paris. Puerto Rico began the twentieth century under the military rule of the United States with officials, including the governor, who were appointed by the President of the United States.\nIn 1900, William McKinley signed the Foraker Act as a United States federal law, which established civilian (limited popular) government on Puerto Rico. The new government had a governor and an executive council appointed by the President, a House of Representatives with 35 elected members, a judicial system with a Supreme Court, and a non-voting Resident Commissioner in Congress. The first civilian governor of the island under the Foraker Act was Charles Herbert Allen. This system was still used after the approval of the Jones\u2013Shafroth Act, which altered the structure of government in Puerto Rico, and was in use until 1948.\nFollowing the approval of the federal Elective Governor Act by President Harry S. Truman in 1947, the governor has been elected through a democratic process every four years since 1948. At that time, Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn became the first democratically elected governor.\nThe current governmental structure was established under the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, ratified in 1952. Sitting governor Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn was re-elected as the first governor under the Constitution. Under Article IV of the Constitution, the governor continues to be popularly elected every four years and is the head of the Commonwealth's executive branch. The governor-elect takes office on January 2 of the following year in a public inaugural ceremony which may be preceded by a private oath-taking ceremony.\nIn June 2025, a legislative measure proposes that the President of the Senate assume the office of Governor in the event of resignation, death, or removal from office, in the absence of a confirmed Secretary of State.\nPowers.\nThe governor is head of the government of Puerto Rico. They have the power to veto legislation that the Puerto Rican legislature passes. The governor also has the power to appoint the members of their cabinet, who in turn must be ratified by the Legislature. The governor also has the power to appoint Justices to the Supreme Court and all the lower courts of the island.\nThe governor must address the legislature at the beginning of each year to present two speeches, one is the \"State of the Commonwealth\" speech and another in which the governor presents the \"Recommended Budget\" for the next fiscal year, in which the governor proposes to the legislature a budget. They are also the commander-in-chief of the Puerto Rico National Guard and the chief diplomat.\nEligibility.\nOn July 25, 1952, the Constitution of Puerto Rico was enacted by Governor Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn after the approval by Congress and the President of the United States. Pursuant to section Three, Article IV of the Constitution of Puerto Rico, the governor must be a citizen of the United States, a resident of Puerto Rico for five consecutive years prior and at least 35 years old at the time of the election.\nThe governor serves a four-year term which begins on the second day of January after the year of their election and ends on the date their successor takes office. Consecutive service is unlimited, according to the Constitution of the Island. Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn, its first elected governor, served for four consecutive terms from 1949 to 1965, but almost all subsequent governors served either one or two terms; the Constitution of the Commonwealth was ratified by the people of Puerto Rico in 1952. Rafael Hern\u00e1ndez Col\u00f3n, however, served three non-consecutive terms: first from 1973 to 1977, and then from 1985 to 1993.\nElections.\nThe governor is elected by a direct vote of the people. Candidates typically represent a political party, with every elected governor to date () having been a member of the New Progressive Party of Puerto Rico or the Popular Democratic Party of Puerto Rico. Only a plurality vote (more than any other candidate) is required to win election, rather than a majority (more than half the votes).\nThe Puerto Rico Elections Code states that if the margin of victory of a candidate is less than 0.5% of the votes, a full recount must take place. So far, only in the gubernatorial elections of 1980 and 2004 has a recount occurred.\nSuccession.\nUpon the death, resignation, or removal from office (by impeachment and conviction) of a sitting governor, the secretary of state would then take the office of governor until the end of the four-year term. In case the secretary of state is unwilling or unable to assume it, the secretary of justice would assume the governorship, followed by the secretary of treasury, the secretary of education, the secretary of labor and human resources, the secretary of transportation and public works, the secretary of economic development and commerce, the secretary of health and the secretary of agriculture. If none of them is available for succession the Legislative Assembly meets to elect by majority vote of all of its members a governor for the rest of the term. Other provisions exist for the transition between an incumbent governor and a governor-elect.\nSimilar to some U.S. states, such as California, if the governor is temporarily away from Puerto Rico, the secretary of state, or in their absence the highest ranking Cabinet member in the line of succession, becomes acting governor until the governor's return. In decades past, when off-island gubernatorial travel was infrequent, the powers of the governorship rarely devolved upon the secretary of state or other Cabinet officers. More accessible travel has made the acting governorship a much more common occurrence. During recent times, not only has the secretary of state frequently served as acting governor, but the secretary of justice, and secretary of treasury have as well.\n2019 leadership crisis.\nOn July 24, 2019, Governor Ricardo Rossell\u00f3 announced his resignation after two weeks of protests and demonstrations in Puerto Rico. He became the first elected governor to resign. His resignation took effect on August 2, 2019, at 5 pm. Before leaving office, Rossell\u00f3 nominated Pedro Pierluisi as secretary of state, intending to make Pierluisi his successor, but his nomination was not approved by the full legislature before Rossell\u00f3's resignation took effect. Despite not having been confirmed by the Senate of Puerto Rico, Pierluisi was sworn in as governor, which prompted a legal challenge. Less than a week later, the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico declared that Pierluisi had taken office on unconstitutional grounds and removed him from office, effective 5 p.m. AST on August 7. At that time, the next in line was then Secretary of Justice, Wanda V\u00e1zquez Garced, who became governor following the original line of succession as it was on August 2 at 5 pm."}
{"id": "708722", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708722", "title": "The Choirboys (novel)", "text": "The Choirboys (), a novel, is a controversial 1975 work of fiction written by Los Angeles Police Department officer-turned-novelist Joseph Wambaugh. In 1995 the novel was selected by the Mystery Writers of America as Number 93 of \"The Top 100 Crime Novels of All Time\".\n\"The Choirboys\" is a tragicomic parody about the effects of urban police work on young officers, seen through the exploits of a group of Los Angeles police officers in the Wilshire Division of the Los Angeles Police Department while an investigation is being conducted into an alleged shooting that took place in MacArthur Park, a frequent hangout of the group.\nPlot summary.\nA group of ten patrol officers on the nightwatch conducts end-of-shift get-togethers they euphemistically call \"choir practices\" (possibly to hide their true nature from superiors but actually a sardonic reference). These \"choir practices\" almost always involve heavy drinking, complaints about their superior officers, and war stories (and, occasionally, group sex with a pair of lusty, overweight barmaids). They hold the choir practices in MacArthur Park because it is in another division's territory and \"one does not shit in one's own nest.\"\nEach of the officers is disillusioned, to varying degrees, that many of the people they're paid to protect are not unlike the suspects they arrest, and that the ridiculous regulations of their department are onerously enforced on them while their commanders (without skills in police work) indulge themselves hypocritically. Wambaugh's portrayals of the ten officers are archetypes of varied personalities found in police departments in the 1970s, albeit well-drawn, but his most cutting descriptions are saved for the brutal \"black-glove officer,\" Roscoe Rules. The theme of police officer suicide (also known as \"eating your gun\"), which runs through many of Wambaugh's books, provides a grim undercurrent to the black humor of the novel and suggests a sub-conscious motivation for their activities.\nReception and cultural influence.\n\"The New York Times\" said in 1975 that \"Very little in Wambaugh's first two novels prepares one for the scabrous humor and ferocity of \"The Choir Boys\".\"\nDue to the popularity of the book, the slang term \"choir practice\" became a somewhat popular euphemism for off-duty recreational activities even if it does not involve alcohol.\n\"The Choirboys\" is considered an indictment of the LAPD hierarchy in several ways: the choirboys' dislike and distrust of command-level officers; the way the investigation into the shooting was handled; and many of their superiors' apathetic attitudes about the pressures officers have to deal with. Wambaugh, however, summarized the conduct of the choirboys both on and off-duty by having Sgt. Yanov, their field supervisor, comment to his superior at the conclusion: \"They weren't troublemakers...they were just policemen. Rather ordinary young guys. Maybe a little lonelier than some. Or scared.\"\nWambaugh's previous LAPD novels, \"The New Centurions\" and \"The Blue Knight\", had been conventional and straightforward portrayals of his experiences. With \"The Choirboys\" he \"found his voice,\" and thereafter his novels were stylistic lampoons of not only the Los Angeles police world but the Hollywood lifestyle, and often filled with black comedy. Wambaugh, by then a successful author, resigned from the LAPD after fourteen years of service in order to publish \"The Choirboys\" without retribution from those he burlesqued. \"The Choirboys\" is also significant in that Wambaugh turned to the bizarre anecdotes of others (which he terms \"cop talk\") to provide the grist for his writing after previously drawing from his own experience.\nThe Choirboys.\nThe nightwatch radio cars of Wilshire Station:\n7-A-1: Spermwhale Whalen and Baxter Slate.\nAt age 52, Herbert \"Spermwhale\" Whalen is the oldest and, legitimately, the toughest of the choirboys. However, unlike Roscoe Rules, he isn't \"an insufferable prick,\" although he has the same contempt for most \"civilians, police brass and station supervisors, and all members of the Civil Service Department.\" A nineteen-year veteran, Whalen considers anyone with less tenure a rookie. Whalen was a transport pilot in World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. He attained the rank of major as a reservist in the Air Force. Whalen is the only choirboy who never attended college. He carries a cropped mugshot of his dead son because it's the last photo taken of him before he died. He's been married three times and says he respects the second one the most because she had the most fortitude to take him for nearly everything he owned.\nBaxter Slate, almost 27, is a handsome cynic with a baccalaureate in classical literature, which he considers worthless; can tell dirty jokes in Latin; and amuses himself by confounding Roscoe Rules with his advanced vocabulary. Outwardly, Slate appears to be the most stable of the officers, but he is tormented by inner demons, particularly emotional scars from working child abuse cases, and is driven to suicide because of his shame in inadvertently being caught by Sam Niles in a humiliating encounter with a dominatrix.\n7-A-29: Sam Niles and Harold Bloomguard.\nSam Niles and Harold Bloomguard, both 26, are, like many police officers of the era, Vietnam veterans, former Marines who were trapped together in a North Vietnamese Army cave during their tour. Harold found a father figure in Sam and followed him into the LAPD, where both obtained college degrees in their off-duty time.\nOn the surface Niles is the dominant of the two. From a background of poverty and abuse, Niles is uncomfortable with all relationships, hastily marrying a coed. They were divorced as quickly. Although he tolerates his partner, he also fears him because Harold knows his innermost shame and secret, the helpless weakness he once showed in the cave.\nBloomguard is the opposite. He's a physical and emotional weakling who attached himself to Sam Niles and dotes on his partner. While Niles had no difficulty meeting all the police selection requirements, Bloomguard, who barely met the height requirement, gorged himself on high-calorie food for three days just to meet the weight requirement. Bloomguard is a protector of the ducks at MacArthur Park and other small and meek animals.\nDue to his Vietnam experience, Niles developed severe claustrophobia, which becomes a key factor in the MacArthur Park shooting. Harold Bloomguard was the \"driving force behind the inception of the MacArthur Park choir practice.\"\n7-A-33: Spencer Van Moot and Willie Wright.\nAt 40, Spencer Van Moot is the second-oldest of the Choirboys and their \"great provider\", taking the fullest advantage of free meals, cigarettes, and other gratuities offered to uniformed officers by businesses within the division's jurisdiction. He is also a connoisseur of food and fashion and spends much of the time at choir practices complaining about his failing third marriage.\n\"Father\" Willie Wright is a short, chubby 24-year-old officer. A converted and thoroughly devout Jehovah's Witness, Father Willie is, like his partner, in an unhappy marriage, but in his case, his unhappiness is due primarily to an obsessively religious wife who would rather distribute \"Watchtower\" magazines door-to-door on his days off than have sex with him. Wright joined the Choirboys out of loneliness and frustration. His guilt-driven, drunken sermons over the evils of drink and marital infidelity, despite the fact that he frequently engaged in both, earned him the moniker \"Father\" Willie Wright.\n7-A-77: Calvin Potts and Francis Tanaguchi.\nCalvin Potts, 28, is a recently divorced black officer and an alcoholic like the rest of his middle-class Baldwin Hills family. His ex-wife's father is one of Los Angeles' top black attorneys who convinced the divorce judge to order Potts to pay nearly half of his salary in alimony and child support, so that Potts now rides an old Schwinn bicycle to work.\nFrancis Tanaguchi, 25, is a third-generation Japanese-American who was raised in the barrios of Los Angeles, and \"unquestionably, the biggest pain in the ass on the nightwatch at Wilshire Station\". He believes, at heart, that he's more Hispanic than Asian and goes to great lengths to de-emphasize his Japanese ancestry. Francis is also an inveterate practical joker, once pretending to be a vampire for three weeks and suspected of being behind the anonymous sultry female voice nicknamed \"The Dragon Lady\" who makes anonymous phone calls to the homes of the choirboys in the middle of the night. Potts and Tanaguchi are collectively referred to as \"The Gook and The Spook.\"\n7-A-85: Roscoe Rules and Dean Pratt.\nHenry \"Roscoe\" Rules, 29, is a five-year veteran of the LAPD. He is brutal and mean, a bully. He was nicknamed \"Roscoe\" during a choir practice when he referred to his police-issue .38 special as a \"roscoe\" after watching a Humphrey Bogart movie on television. Of all the officers, he is the one most intent on proving he is the toughest cop on the force and refers to people he dislikes (which is just about everyone) as \"scrotes\" (short for scrotums). The word was coined by Father Willie Wright for Roscoe to use in reference to people since Rules felt that the word \"asshole\" was overused in police work, and the word scrotum too long. Of the word \"scrote\" as used by Roscoe Rules, Baxter Slate quips that it is \"a philosophy in a word\". Rules hates the city and lives on a \"ranch\" sixty miles from it, \"east of Chino\". To describe just how mean Roscoe Rules is, fellow officers created an inside joke that Roscoe Rules \"handed out towels in the showers at Auschwitz\".\nDean \"Whaddayamean Dean\" Pratt, 25, is a bachelor who fears Roscoe and kowtows to his every impulse. Pratt is notorious for being unable to tolerate even moderate amounts of alcohol. When inebriated, Dean is incapable of holding even the simplest of conversations. \"Any question, statement, piece of smalltalk would be met by an idiotic frustrating maddening double beseechment: \"I don't get it. I don't get it.\" Or, \"Whaddaya trying to say? Whaddaya trying to say?\" Or, most frequently heard, \"Whaddaya mean? Whaddaya mean?\"\"\nFilm, TV or theatrical adaptations.\nIn 1977, \"The Choirboys\" was adapted into a film starring Charles Durning, Perry King, James Woods, Louis Gossett Jr. and Randy Quaid. Ultimately the film was unsuccessful and critically panned. The entire ending was changed for the film, and critics complained that while the book showed the police officers as sympathetic characters, the film painted them as a bunch of drunken jerks. Wambaugh himself refused to have his name associated with the film, as he considered it to be an extremely poor interpretation of his novel. He later said that the experience led him to produce his own films to protect his literary work.\nSeveral characters had their names changed from what they had been in the novel:\nSam Niles - Sam Lyles, Calvin Potts - Calvin Motts, Willie Wright - \"Father\" Sartino, Dean Pratt - Dean Proust."}
{"id": "708725", "revid": "49829305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708725", "title": "Michael Stewart (playwright)", "text": " \nMichael Stewart (August 1, 1924\u00a0\u2013 September 20, 1987) was an American playwright and dramatist, librettist, lyricist, screenwriter and novelist.\nLife and career.\nBorn Myron Stuart Rubin in Manhattan, Stewart attended Queens College, and graduated from the Yale School of Drama with a Master of Fine Arts in 1953.\nHis early work was writing sketches for the revues \"The Shoestring Revue\" (1955), \"The Littlest Revue\" (1956), and \"Shoestring '57\" (1956, Barbizon-Plaza, New York). He then joined the staff writers of Sid Caesar's television program, \"Caesar's Hour\".\nHe met Charles Strouse and Lee Adams in 1954, and several years after collaborated with them and Gower Champion on the 1960 Broadway musical \"Bye Bye Birdie\". He worked again with Champion and Jerry Herman, with their musical \"Hello, Dolly!\" opening on Broadway in 1964.\nStewart died on September 20, 1987, in New York City. Jule Styne said of him: \"He was an extremely talented and knowledgeable man of the theater. He was one of the great musical-theater writers, and his string of hits showed that.\" Stewart's sister was writer Francine Pascal and brother Burt Rubin."}
{"id": "708726", "revid": "1312133407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708726", "title": "Senshi", "text": "Senshi may refer to:"}
{"id": "708738", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708738", "title": "List of important publications in Mathematics", "text": ""}
{"id": "708749", "revid": "27329731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708749", "title": "Rutebok for Norge", "text": "Rutebok for Norge is an overview of the entire Norwegian public transport network containing timetables, prices, maps and other essential information. It also contains a list of Norwegian accommodation.\nRutebok for Norge was first published in 1869 under the name \"Norges Kommunikasjoner\" or \"Reiseblad\". It got its current name in 1918 when it was merged with the state railways equivalent. The \"Rutebok\" was issued weekly 1880\u20131932, later every 14 days. It has been published since 1991 by Norsk Reiseinformasjon AS with 4 issues per year. Since 1994 an electronic version is also published, in the form of a CD-ROM containing the same information as the paper version; since 2003 it has also been available online at http://www.rutebok.no."}
{"id": "708752", "revid": "5149182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708752", "title": "Buttermere", "text": "Buttermere is a lake in the Lake District in North West England. It has a length of approximately and a maximum width of , an area of , a maximum depth of , and a surface elevation of above sea level. Its primary outflow is Buttermere Dubs, a short stream which connects the lake to Crummock Water. From Crummock Water the River Cocker flows to Cockermouth, where it joins the River Derwent and finally enters the Irish Sea at Workington. The lake is in the unitary authority of Cumberland, and the ceremonial county of Cumbria.\nGeography.\nThe lake is long by wide, and is deep. It has an elevation above sea level of . It is situated towards the head of the valley of the River Cocker and is surrounded by fells, notably the High Stile range to the south west, Robinson to the north-east, Fleetwith Pike and Haystacks to the south-east and Grasmoor to the north-west.\nThe village of Buttermere stands at the north-western end of the lake, and beyond this is Crummock Water. There is a path around the lake which is about long, and at one point runs through a rock tunnel beneath the locality of Hassness. Access is by road, from Cockermouth in the north-west; from Borrowdale via the Honister Pass; or from Braithwaite and the Newlands Valley via Newlands Hause.\nThe lake is owned by the National Trust, it forms part of its Buttermere and Ennerdale property.\nToponymy.\nThere are two possible origins for the name \"Buttermere\":\nOne, that Buttermere means \"the lake by the dairy pastures\" (from the Old English \"butere mere\"). Whaley suggests this as the correct interpretation: \" 'butter lake, the lake with good pasture-land', from OE 'butere' 'butter', conveying the fertile nature of the flat alluvial land at both ends of the lake, plus 'mere' 'lake'...\"\nTwo, that it is the corrupt form of a personal name. Robert Ferguson asserts in his 1866 work, \"The Northmen in Cumberland and Westmoreland\" that Buttermere derives from the Old Norse personal name \"Buthar\", as in \"Buthar's mere\" (lake). This accords with local tradition, which says that the valley of Buttermere was part of the holdings of an 11th-century Norse chieftain called \"Buthar\" (sometimes spelt \"Boethar\"). Large numbers of Vikings settled in the Cumbrian area during the 9th and 10th centuries and many names in the area are of Norse origin: streams are termed 'becks', from the Old Norse \"bekkr\"; mountains are 'fells', from the Norse \"fjall\"; waterfalls are forces, from \"fos\"; ravines are 'gills'; valleys are 'dales', from \"dalr\" (ON); and small lakes are termed 'tarns', which derives from \"tjorn\", meaning teardrop. Whaley suggests that the personal name interpretation is incorrect, but notes that the Victoria County History \"deemed it 'not disputed that the family of the Scotic ruler, Bueth or Boet, held its own against the Norman intruder', with possession of the barony of Gillesland, for fifty years after the Norman Conquest.\"\nLegend and literature.\nFrom his hidden stronghold at Buttermere, it is said that Jarl Buthar conducted a campaign of running resistance against the Norman invaders, from the time of William the Conqueror's Harrying of the North in 1069 right up until the early 12th century. In 1072 King William set up a garrison at Carlisle, but the isolated garrison needed constant reinforcement and supplies. It is claimed that the Cumbrians fought a guerrilla war against the Normans for almost half a century, attacking supply wagons, ambushing patrols and inflicting great losses upon them in terms of money, material and men.\nThe extent to which Jarl Buthar is a semi-mythological figure is unclear. He is apparently mentioned in 12th-century Norman documents, but much of his story appears to be based on local legend and archaeology, later enhanced by Nicholas Size's popular dramatised history (see below).\nJarl Boethar's campaign and a final battle at Rannerdale between the Normans and the Anglo-Scandinavian Cumbrians led by the Jarl is the subject of a dramatised history by Nicholas Size, called \"The Secret Valley: The Real Romance of Unconquered Lakeland\", published in 1930.\nRosemary Sutcliff's YA novel \"Shield Ring\", published in 1956, imagines the lives of Jarl Buthar and his band of Cumbrian rebels, and their last stand against the forces of a Norman army under the command of Ranulf le Meschin, Lord of Carlisle and later Earl of Chester, nearly 50 years after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066. It was clearly inspired by Nicholas Size's history, which it closely follows.\nMary Robinson (1778\u20131837), known as the \"Maid of Buttermere\" and the subject of Melvyn Bragg's novel of that name, was the daughter of the landlord of the Fish Inn in Buttermere village."}
{"id": "708755", "revid": "41632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708755", "title": "Palacio de Santa Catalina", "text": ""}
{"id": "708756", "revid": "9676078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708756", "title": "Norsk Reiseinformasjon", "text": "Norsk Reiseinformasjon AS or NRI is an Oslo, Norway-based company built up around the production of Rutebok for Norge. The company is owned by Norwegian State Railways, Federation of Norwegian Transport Companies, NOR-WAY Bussekspress, Oslo Sporveier, Federation of Norwegian Coastal Shipping, Scandinavian Airlines and Wider\u00f8e.\nAlso publishing \"NRI Guide\" containing information about Norwegian public transport and accommodation in English. It also provides public transportation search engines to several Norwegian companies and information services."}
{"id": "708757", "revid": "15996738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708757", "title": "Centro Universitario Villanueva", "text": "It became Villanueva University in 2019."}
{"id": "708759", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708759", "title": "William Mulready", "text": "William Mulready (1 April 1786 \u2013 7 July 1863) was an Irish genre painter living in London. He is best known for his romanticising depictions of rural scenes, and for creating Mulready stationery letter sheets, issued at the same time as the Penny Black postage stamp.\nLife and family.\nWilliam Mulready was born in Ennis, County Clare. Early in his life, in 1792, the family moved to London, where he was able to get an education and was taught painting well enough so that he was accepted at the Royal Academy School at the age of fourteen.\nIn 1802, he married Elizabeth Varley (1784\u20131864), a landscape painter. She came from a family of established artists; her brothers included John Varley, friend of William Blake, Cornelius Varley, and William Fleetwood Varley.\nTheir three children, Paul Augustus (1805\u20131864), William (1805\u20131878), and Michael (1807\u20131889) also became artists. His relationship with his wife however deteriorated gradually over the years, which is detailed in papers stored at the library of the Victoria and Albert Museum. His strong Catholic beliefs prevented any chance of a divorce but they separated. He accused her of \"bad conduct\" but shied from providing details. In a letter to him in 1827 she blamed him entirely for the collapse of their marriage, suggesting cruelty, pederastic activities and adultery were the reasons, writing that one of his pupils, Harriet Gouldsmith, had told her Malready \"preferred her little finger\" to his wife and children, and accusing him having \"had taken a low boy to your bed, and turned one adrift at midnight, to seek one at the house of an unmarried man\".\nHis son, William Mulready Junior (1805\u20131878), lived in London and maintained a career of a portrait painter and picture restorer. He had five children (Ellen, Mary, Augustus Edwin, Henry William, and John). They also were trained as artists, but not all of them pursued the artistic career: Henry William and John described themselves as 'house painters'. Augustus Edwin Mulready (1844\u20131904) was the most successful of them and became known as a member of the Cranbrook Colony of artists.\nArtistic career.\nMany of his early pictures show landscapes, before he started to build a reputation as a genre painter from 1808 on, painting mostly everyday scenes from rural life. He also illustrated children's books including the first edition of Charles and Mary Lamb's \"Tales from Shakespeare\" in 1807; William Roscoe's entertaining poem \"The Butterfly's Ball, and the Grasshopper's Feast\" in the same year; and a sequel to the latter by Catherine Ann Dorset. Some of these were for the Juvenile Library of William Godwin and Mary Jane Clairmont; Godwin in turn wrote, under a pseudonym, an account of Mulready's early life, suitable for children.\nMulready's paintings were popular in Victorian times. His first painting of importance, \"Returning from the Ale House\", now in the Tate Gallery, London, under the title \"Fair Time\", appeared in 1809.\nIn 1815 he became an Associate of the Royal Academy (A.R.A.) and R.A. in 1816. He displayed \"The Fight Interrupted\" at the Royal Academy Exhibition of 1816. In the same year, he also was awarded the French \"Legion of Honour\". Mulready's most important pictures are in the Victoria and Albert Museum and in the Tate Gallery. In the former are 33, among them \"Hampstead Heath\" (1806); \"Giving a Bite\" (1836); \"First Love\" (1839); \"The Sonnet\" (1839); \"Choosing the Wedding Gown\" (1846); and \"The Butt\" (\"Shooting a Cherry\") (1848). In the latter are five, including a \"Snow Scene\". In the National Gallery, Dublin, are \"Young Brother\" and \"The Toy Seller\". His \"Wolf and the Lamb\" is in Royal possession.\nIn 1840, Mulready designed the illustrations for the postal stationery, known as Mulready stationery were introduced by the Royal Mail at the same time as the Penny Black in May 1840. They were issued in two forms; one variant was precut to a diamond or lozenge shape and folded to form an envelope that could be held together by seal at the apex of the topmost flap; and lettersheets that were cut in rectangles, folded over and sealed or tucked in.\nStationery manufacturers, whose livelihood was threatened by the new lettersheet, produced many caricatures (or lampoons) of Mulready's design. Only six days after their introduction, on 12 May, Rowland Hill wrote that; \"I fear we shall have to substitute some other stamp for that design by Mulready ... the public have shown their disregard and even distaste for beauty,\" and within two months a decision had been made to replace the Mulready designed stationery. Essentially Mulready's designs were a folly.\nDeath.\nHe died at the age of 77 in Bayswater, London and is buried in the nearby Kensal Green Cemetery where a monument to his memory was erected. The monument lies on the north side of the main path, midway between the entrance and the main chapel, and although not in the front line of graves it is easily spotted due to its unique form. The tomb was designed by Godfrey Sykes."}
{"id": "708760", "revid": "379519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708760", "title": "French painters", "text": ""}
{"id": "708762", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708762", "title": "Spirit (Stargate)", "text": ""}
{"id": "708764", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708764", "title": "List of important publications in Science", "text": ""}
{"id": "708769", "revid": "51707852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708769", "title": "YouGov", "text": "YouGov plc is an international Internet-based market research and data analytics firm headquartered in the UK with operations in Europe, North America, the Middle East, and Asia\u2013Pacific.\nHistory.\n2000\u20132010.\nStephan Shakespeare and Nadhim Zahawi formed YouGov in the United Kingdom in May 2000. In 2001, they engaged BBC political analyst Peter Kellner, who became chairman and then, from 2007 to 2016, President.\nIn its initial years, YouGov hired a number of notable commentators to write columns on its website, including future UK prime minister Boris Johnson, and presenter John Humphrys. In April 2005, YouGov became a public company listed on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange. In the same year, the company launched YouGov BrandIndex, which tracks public opinion on consumer brands using daily polls.\nIn 2006, YouGov began expanding outside the UK through acquisitions and acquired Dubai-based research firm Siraj for $1.2 million plus an eventual earn-out of $600,000. In 2007, the Palo Alto, California-based US research polling firm Polimetrix, headed by Stanford University professor Doug Rivers,\nwas acquired by the company for approximately $17 million . Also in 2007, the company \nacquired Scandinavian firm Zapera for $8 million and German firm Psychonomics for $20 million. In 2009 and 2010, YouGov expanded its US operations with two acquisitions, first buying Princeton, New Jersey, research firm Clear Horizons for $600,000 plus an earn-out of $2.7 million, then Connecticut-based research firm Harrison Group for $6 million with a $7 million earn-out.\nIn 2010, YouGov bought a 20% stake of sports media data company SMG Insight. In 2018, the company acquired the remaining 80% of SMG Insight's stock. The new business was rebranded YouGov Sport.\nAhead of the 2010 UK General Election, YouGov entered an exclusive contract to provide political polls to \"The Times\". The business also launched TellYouGov, which combined analysis drawing from social media data and polling results. The business continues to analyse social media, now primarily via YouGov Signal.\n2011\u20132020.\nIn 2011, YouGov acquired Portland, Oregon-based firm Definitive Insights for $1 million with a potential $2 million earn-out and also made its first organic expansion by opening an office in Paris. In January 2014, YouGov entered the Asia Pacific region with the acquisition of Decision Fuel for an estimated consideration of approximately \u00a35 million. Also in 2014, YouGov launched Profiles, an audience segmentation tool, combining data points from its most active panellists showing how the public engages with traditional and new media channels.\nIn 2016, Peter Kellner stepped down as the company\u2019s Chairman. In this year, YouGov began to use a methodology known as multi-level regression and post-stratification (MRP) in its political polling. Its first public use was during the United Kingdom\u2019s referendum on EU membership. YouGov has used this approach around elections since.\nIn the 2017 UK General Election, YouGov\u2019s projection was an outlier. While most pollsters projected large Conservative majorities, YouGov correctly predicted a hung parliament. YouGov modelling rightly projected a number of shock results, including in Kensington and Canterbury. \nIn December 2017, YouGov purchased Galaxy Research to establish a presence in Australia. Galaxy Research was an Australian market research company that provided opinion polling for state and federal politics. Its polls were published in News Limited tabloid newspapers, including the \"Herald Sun\", \"Courier-Mail\", and \"The Daily Telegraph\" (in contrast to Newspoll data, which is presented in the News Limited broadsheet newspaper \"The Australian\"). \nIn 2020, YouGov launched YouGov Turkey, the result of an acquisition of Istanbul-based online research agency Wizsight. The business also polled extensively around the coronavirus pandemic, working with Imperial College London to track how populations responded to the virus and associated policies.\n2021\u2013present.\nIn 2021, the company completed acquisitions of Canada-based Charlton Insights, Swiss-based LINK Marketing Services AG, and Australia-headquartered Faster Horses. Other acquisitions in 2021 included Lean App which was bought to improve YouGov\u2019s services with financial transaction data, and Rezonence which offers users access to premium content in exchange for taking part in a survey. The business also launched YouGov Safe, giving insight into consumer online behaviour by encouraging consumers to share their data in a GDPR-friendly manner.\nIn July 2023, YouGov agreed to acquire the consumer panel division of German market research company GfK for \u20ac315\u00a0million. The next month, YouGov chairman Shakespeare said the company was considering either moving its listing in the UK to the US, or establishing a secondary listing in the US. \"I think the markets are better at supporting companies like ours there,\" he said in an interview with the \"Financial Times\". The company later clarified that it was \u201cnot being considered in the near term.\u201d\nIn January 2024, YouGov concluded the acquisition of GfK\u2019s consumer panel, and also acquired Chicago-based data company KnowledgeHound in a separate deal.\nIn August 2024, YouGov acquired New Zealand-based generative AI company Yabble for \u00a34.5 million.\nDescription and governance.\nStephan Shakespeare is YouGov\u2019s Chief Executive Officer, replacing Steve Hatch in February 2025. Shakespeare had previously been the company\u2019s CEO between 2010 and 2023 before becoming YouGov\u2019s Non-Executive Chair. Since Peter Kellner's retirement from the company in 2016, its methodology has been overseen by YouGov\u2019s chief scientist, Doug Rivers.\nYouGov is a member of the British Polling Council.\nMethodology.\nYouGov specialises in market research and opinion polling through online methods. The company's methodology involves obtaining responses from an invited group of Internet users, and then weighting these responses in line with demographic information. It draws these demographically representative samples from a panel of over 24\u00a0million people worldwide.\nYouGov's polling results have been found to be notably more accurate than those of other online pollsters that rely on nonprobability sampling instead of random sampling.\nAllegation of poll manipulation.\nIn June 2022, former employee and then future MP Chris Curtis, who at that time worked for competitor Opinium, said that during the 2017 United Kingdom general election, a YouGov poll was suppressed by the company because it was \"too positive about Labour\", under pressure from the Conservative co-founder of YouGov Nadhim Zahawi. YouGov denied that the poll was spiked for political reasons, instead arguing that the poll was based on a \"skewed sample\". Former YouGov president Peter Kellner confirmed last-minute small methodology changes which transferred 2% from Labour to Conservative and increased the predicted Conservative lead from 3% to 7%.\nA day later, Curtis withdrew his allegation, saying that he now accepted \"YouGov's position that in fact the results were pulled because of concerns other members of the team had about the methodology\", and that he had not intended to allege that Nadhim Zahawi had had any bearing on the decision, and apologised for any confusion caused by his previous statements."}
{"id": "708770", "revid": "50613237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708770", "title": "Banu Hilal", "text": "The Banu Hilal () was a confederation of Arab tribes from the Najd region of the central Arabian Peninsula that emigrated to the Maghreb region of North Africa in the 11th century. They ruled the Najd and campaigned in the borderlands between Iraq and Syria. When the Fatimid Caliphate became the rulers of Egypt and the founders of Cairo in 969, they confined the Bedouin in the south before sending them to Central North Africa (Libya, Tunisia and Algeria) and then to Morocco.\nHistorians estimate the total number of Arab nomads who migrated to the Maghreb in the 11th century to be 500,000 to 700,000 to 1,000,000. Historian M\u00e1rmol Carvajal states that more than a million Arabs migrated to the Maghreb in the 11th century, an estimation that he attributes to Ibn Al-Raquiq, who died 2 decades before the migration.In the 19th century, Ernest Carette estimates that the total population of Hilalians during the 16th century was 920,250, an estimation he made using the accounts of M\u00e1rmol Carvajal.\nOrigin.\nThe Banu Hilal originated in Najd in the central Arabian Peninsula, sometimes travelling towards Iraq in search of pastures and oases. According to Arab genealogists, the Banu Hilal were a sub-tribe of the Mudar tribal confederation, specifically of the Amir ibn Sa'sa'a, and their progenitor was Hilal. According to traditional Arab sources, their full genealogy was the following: Hil\u0101l ibn \"\u02bf\"\u0100mir ibn \u1e62a\u02bf\u1e63a\u02bfa ibn Mu\u02bf\u0101wiya ibn Bakr ibn Haw\u0101zin ibn Man\u1e63\u016br ibn \u02bfIkrima ibn K\u0332h\u0332a\u1e63afa ibn Qays ibn \u02bfAyl\u0101n ibn Mu\u1e0dar ibn Niz\u0101r ibn Ma'ad ibn \u02bfAdn\u0101n. The Banu Hilal were very numerous, effectively a nation divided into its own sub-tribes, of which the most notable were the Athbaj, Riyah, Jusham, Zughba, Adi, and Qurra.\nIbn Khaldun described their genealogy, which consisted of two mother tribes: themselves and the Banu Sulaym. In Arabia, they lived on the Ghazwan near Ta'if while the Banu Sulaym attended nearby Medina, sharing a common cousin in the Al Yas branch of the Quraysh. At the time of their migration, Banu Hilal comprised six sub-tribes: Athbadj, Riyah, Jusham, Adi, Zughba, and Rabi'a.\nHistory.\nPre-Islamic Arabia.\nIts original abode, like that of its related tribes, was the Najd. Its history during pre-Islamic times is bound with other tribes of the Ban\u016b \u02bf\u0100mir ibn \u1e62a\u02bf\u1e63a\u02bfa, especially in the (battle days of the Arabs) and in affairs related to the rise of Islam in the region, such as that of Massacre of Bi'r Ma'una. The Banu Hilal likely did not accept Islam until after Muhammad's victory at the Battle of Hunayn in 630, but like other \u02bf\u0100mirid tribes, they also did not join in the Ridda Wars that followed Muhammad's death in 632.\nMigration to Egypt, Iraq and the Levant.\nThe tribe does not appear to have played any significant role in the early Muslim conquests, and for the most part remained in the Nejd. Only in the early 8th century did some of the Banu Hilal (and the Banu Sulaym) move to Egypt. Many followed, so that the two groups became numerous in Egypt. During the Abbasid Caliphate, the Hilal were known for their unruliness. In the 9th century, Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym migrated from Najd to Iraq, and later to the Levant, before migrating to the Maghreb in the 11th century.\nIn the 970s, the Hilal and the Sulaym joined the radical sect of the Qarmatians in their attacks on the Fatimid Caliphate, which had just conquered Egypt and was pushing into Syria. As a result, after his victory over the Qarmatians in 978, the Fatimid caliph al-Aziz () forcibly relocated the two tribes to Upper Egypt. As they continued to fight among themselves and pillage the area, they were prohibited from crossing the Nile River or leaving Upper Egypt.\nMigration to the Maghreb.\nThe Banu Hilal first began migrating to the Maghreb when the Zirid dynasty of Ifriqiya proclaimed its independence from the Fatimid Caliphate of Egypt. In retribution against the Zirids, the Fatimids dispatched large Bedouin Arab tribes, mainly the Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym, to defeat the Zirids and settle in the Maghreb. These tribes followed a nomadic lifestyle and were originally from the Hejaz and Najd. To persuade the Bedouin into migrating to the Maghreb, the Fatimid caliph gave each tribesman a camel and money and helped them cross from the east to the west bank of the Nile River. The severe drought in Egypt at the time also persuaded these tribes to migrate to the Maghreb, which had a better economic situation at the time. The Fatimid caliph instructed them to rule the Maghreb instead of the Zirid emir al-Mu'izz and told them \"I have given you the Maghrib and the rule of al-Mu'izz ibn Balk\u012bn as-Sanh\u0101j\u012b the runaway slave. You will want for nothing.\" and told al-Mu'izz \"I have sent you horses and put brave men on them so that God might accomplish a matter already enacted\".\nUpon arriving in Cyrenaica, the Arab nomads found the region almost empty of its inhabitants, except a few Zenata Berbers that al-Mu'izz had already mostly destroyed. The number of Hilalians who moved westward out of Egypt has been estimated as high as 200,000 families. Cyrenaica was left to be settled by Banu Sulaym while the Hilalians marched westwards. As a result of the settlement by Arab tribes, Cyrenaica became the most Arab place in the Arab world after the interior of Arabia. According to Ibn Khaldun, the Banu Hilal were accompanied by their wives and their children when they came to the Maghreb. They settled in Ifriqiya after winning battles against Berber tribes, eventually going on to coexist with them. Abu Zayd al-Hilali led between 150,000 and 300,000 Arabs into the Maghreb, who intermarried with the indigenous peoples. The Fatimids used the tribe, which began their journey as allies and vassals, to punish the particularly difficult to control Zirids after the conquest of Egypt and the founding of Cairo. As the dynasty became increasingly independent and abandoned Shia Islam, they quickly defeated the Zirids after the battle of Haydaran and deeply weakened the neighboring Hammadid dynasty and the Zenata. The Zirids abandoned Kairouan to take refuge on the coast where they survived for a century. The Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym spread on the high plains of Constantine where they gradually obstructed the Qal'at Bani Hammad as they had done to Kairouan a few decades ago. From there, they gradually gained control over the high plains of Algiers and Oran. In the second half of the 12th century, they went to the Moulouya valley and the Atlantic coast in the western Maghreb to areas such as Doukkala.\n Their influx was a major factor in the linguistic, cultural and ethnic Arabization of the Maghreb and in the spread of nomadism in areas where agriculture had previously been dominant. They had also heavily transformed the culture of the Maghreb into Arab culture, and spread nomadism in areas where agriculture was previously dominant. It played a major role in spreading Bedouin Arabic to rural areas such as the countryside and steppes, and as far as the southern areas near the Sahara. Ibn Khaldun noted that the lands ravaged by Banu Hilal invaders had become completely arid desert.\nHistorians estimate the total number of Arab nomads who migrated to the Maghreb in the 11th century to be 250,000 (only the first few decades) to 700,000 to 1,000,000 when the entire population of the Maghreb at the time was estimated to be 5,000,000. Historian M\u00e1rmol Carvajal states that more than a million Arabs migrated to the Maghreb in the 11th century, an estimation that he attributes to Ibn Al-Raquiq.Ernest Carette estimates that the total population of Hilalians during the 16th century was 920,250.\nThe Banu Hilal later came under the rule of various subsequent dynasties, including the Almohad Caliphate, Hafsid dynasty, Zayyanid dynasty and Marinid dynasty. Finding their continued presence intolerable, the Almohad Caliphate defeated the Banu Hilal in the Battle of Setif and forced many of them to leave Ifriqiya and settle in Morocco. Upon the arrival of the Turks, the Banu Hilal rose against the Ottoman Empire near the Aur\u00e8s region and south Algeria. In Morocco during the 17th century, the sultan Ismail Ibn Sharif created a guich army made up of Arab warriors from the Banu Hilal and the Banu Maqil which was one of the main parts of the Moroccan army. They were garrisoned in their own lands of water and pastures and served as troops and military garrisons to fight in wars and suppress rebellions.\nSocial organization.\nOriginally, the Banu Hilal embraced a nomadic lifestyle, rearing cattle and sheep. Despite several tribes living in arid and desert areas, they became experts in the field of agriculture. The Banu Hilal were conservative and patriarchal, and were tolerant Shi'ites. They were initially Isma'ili Shia, but after their conquest of the Sunni Maghreb, the vast majority of Banu Hilal progressively adopted the Maliki school of Sunni Islam, following the Malikization of the Maghreb in the twelfth century and later centuries.\nTaghribat Banu Hilal.\nThe accounts and records that the folk poet Abdul Rahman al-Abnudi gathered from the bards of Upper Egypt culminated in the Taghribat Bani Hilal, an Arab epic describing the journey of the tribe from Arabia to the Maghreb. The tale is divided into three main cycles. The first two bring together unfolding events in Arabia and other countries of the east, while the third, called \"Taghriba\" (march west), recounts the migration of the Banu Hilal to North Africa. Until the early 20th century, the story of Banu Hilal was performed in a variety of forms across the Arab world from Morocco to Iraq, as folktale or local legend recounted in poetry."}
{"id": "708771", "revid": "10442657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708771", "title": "J\u00f3n Kalman Stef\u00e1nsson", "text": "J\u00f3n Kalman Stef\u00e1nsson (born 17 December 1963) is an Icelandic author.\nBiography.\nJ\u00f3n Kalman was born in Reykjav\u00edk. He grew up there and in Keflav\u00edk. From 1975 to 1982, he lived in western Iceland, where he worked different jobs after finishing high school.\nFrom 1986 to 1991, he studied literature at the University of Iceland, but did not pass an important exam. During this time, Stef\u00e1nsson taught courses at high schools and wrote articles for the Icelandic newspaper \"Morgunbla\u00f0i\u00f0\". Between 1992 and 1995, he lived off various jobs in Copenhagen, Denmark. Afterwards he returned to Iceland and worked as a librarian for the Municipal Library in Mosfellsb\u00e6r. Since then, he has been living as an independent author in Iceland.\nIn 2017 his novel \"Fish Have No Feet\" was nominated for the Man Booker International Prize. He has been nominated for the Nordic Council Literature Prize four times."}
{"id": "708805", "revid": "4307181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708805", "title": "Ashfield, New South Wales", "text": " \nAshfield is a suburb in the Inner West of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Ashfield is about eight kilometres west of the Sydney central business district.\nAshfield's population is highly multicultural with the majority of the area's dwellings being a mixture of mainly post-war low-rise flats (apartment blocks) and Federation-era detached houses. Amongst these are a number of grand Victorian buildings that offer a hint of Ashfield's rich cultural heritage.\nHistory.\nAboriginal people.\nBefore the arrival of the British, the area now known as Ashfield was inhabited by the Wangal people. Wangal country was believed to be centred on modern-day Concord and stretched east to the swampland of Long Cove Creek (now known as Hawthorne Canal). The land was heavily wooded at the time with tall eucalypts covering the higher ground and a variety of swampy trees along Iron Cove Creek. The people hunted native animals and fish. The arrival of the First Fleet in 1788 had a devastating effect on the local people, mainly from the introduction of smallpox, to which the indigenous people had little resistance.\nEarly British settlement.\nBy 1790, a rough track had been built between the colony's two settlements at Sydney Cove and Parramatta. This route later became the main artery of the expanding Greater Sydney and, as the northern boundary of what is now Ashfield, dictated early British settlement in the area. The first land grant in the area was made to Rev Richard Johnson in 1793 and all of it had been granted by 1810. By the 1820s, all the grants had been amalgamated into two large estates: \"Ashfield Park\" (the northern half between Liverpool Road, and Parramatta Road) and \"Canterbury Estate\" (the area south of Liverpool Road). Ashfield Park was named by Robert Campbell, whose father was the laird of Ashfield in Scotland.\nPopulation growth.\nIn 1838, Elizabeth Underwood, then owner of Ashfield Park, subdivided part of her land to form the village of Ashfield between Liverpool Road and Alt Street. Part of the subdivision was the building of St John's Church in Alt Street in 1841, now the suburb's oldest surviving building. By 1855, the village had about 70 houses and 200 residents. However, the opening of the Sydney-Parramatta railway line that year, with Ashfield as one of its six original stations, led to a population explosion. In 1872, there were enough residents for the area to be granted a municipal council. By 1890, the population had grown to 11,000.\nDuring this time, Ashfield was seen as a highly desirable location compared to the city, which had become crowded and pestilent. Many grand Victorian houses were built in the latter part of the 19th century. But by the time of World War I, the suburb had fallen out of favour and the rich residents had mostly headed for the North Shore. Many of the grand homes were knocked down in the 1920s and 1930s and replaced with small art deco blocks of flats or semi-detached houses. A few remain, however, and are listed in the Landmarks section.\nBy the 1950s, the population of Ashfield had begun to fall, as it had in many surrounding suburbs, as people moved to newer houses on larger blocks of land on the urban fringe. The Council's response was to start approving large blocks of flats, many of which were built during the 1960s and 1970s but which also continue to be built today. There is, however, recognition of the area's heritage with many buildings in the suburb protected by heritage orders.\nIndustrial history.\nWhile never a noted industrial suburb, Ashfield has had a couple of significant industries. On Parramatta Road near Frederick Street was the Australian Six motor car factory which opened in 1920. The site later became an AWA factory producing radio valves and other components. The site has since been turned into a commercial and residential development. On the other side of Frederick Street was the Peek Freans biscuit factory, the tower of which was (and still is) a familiar site to passing motorists on Parramatta Road. However, this factory is also no longer industrial, serving today as a large Bunnings warehouse.\nCommercial area.\nThe main shopping precinct is located along Liverpool Road south of Ashfield railway station. Along this strip, there are a few medium-sized office blocks, many street-level shops and Ashfield Mall, a shopping centre containing supermarkets, a discount department store and specialty shops. This commercial area also extends into Charlotte Street and Elizabeth Street on the northern side of the station. A second commercial precinct is located along Parramatta Road consisting mostly of automotive-related retail and light industry.\nTransport.\nAshfield is located at the intersection of two major roads. Parramatta Road runs from Sydney city to Parramatta and ultimately continues on as the Great Western Highway through Penrith and the Blue Mountains. Liverpool Road runs from Parramatta Road at Ashfield to Liverpool and ultimately continues on as the Hume Highway. While completion of the Sydney Orbital Network has bypassed these two roads somewhat, they remain busy and well connected to all parts of Sydney. Another major road is Frederick/Milton Street which connects the City West Link Road at Haberfield with Georges River Road at Croydon Park.\nAshfield railway station is on the Main Suburban railway line of the Sydney Trains network. Ashfield was opened in 1855 as part of the original Sydney to Parramatta railway. It was renovated in 2002. There are express and all stations services to the City Circle, Homebush, Parramatta, Leppington and Liverpool.\nAshfield is the terminus for one Transit Systems bus services: 464 (to Mortlake, via Croydon Park, Burwood, and Concord). Another nine routes pass through Ashfield: 406 (to Five Dock and Hurlstone Park), 413 (City to Campsie), 418 (to Burwood and Sydenham station, and Tempe), 461X (City to Burwood), 490 &amp; 492 (Drummoyne to Rockdale and Hurstville), 491 (Five Dock to Hurstville) and 480 &amp; 483 (City to Strathfield).\nThere are virtually no dedicated bicycle paths in the suburb of Ashfield but there is a local bicycle users group which has worked with the then Ashfield Municipal Council to identify preferred routes through Ashfield for cyclists. The Strathfield-Newtown route is the most important of these, passing down Park Lane and Robert Street towards Summer Hill where it links with the Cooks River to Iron Cove Greenway Corridor providing access to those two popular local cycleways.\nEducation.\nAshfield has three primary schools: Ashfield Public (on Liverpool Road), St Vincent's (a Catholic K\u201312 school in Bland Street), and Yeo Park Infants (on Victoria Street at the southern extremity of the suburb). It also has two high schools: Ashfield Boys High School (next to Ashfield Public on Liverpool Road) and St Vincent's College (a Catholic co-educational school in Bland Street formed as a result of a merger in 2023 of adjacent schools Bethlehem College and De La Salle College).\nAshfield Public is the oldest of these having been established in 1876 after much lobbying from local residents. Prior to that there had been schools operating out of the Methodist, Anglican and Presbyterian churches and there had even been a public school operating briefly out of the Methodist church between 1862 and 1866 but it wasn't until 1876 that it became a permanent fixture. In 1907, two years of secondary school were added and the school became a Superior School but it was not until 1965 that Ashfield Boys High was formally established and separated from the primary school.\nBethlehem was the first high school in the area, established by the Sisters of Charity in 1881. It led to a Catholic primary school St Charles being established shortly after. When it burnt down in 1904, St Vincents became the replacement, taking on the name of the newly built church next door. The De La Salle school was established in 1915.\nThe year after Bethlehem was established, an Anglican girls boarding school called Normanhurst School was started in Bland Street. It moved to Orpington Street in 1888 where it remained until closure in 1941. It produced notable students including Pamela Travers (author of \"Mary Poppins\") and tennis champion Daphne Akhurst. There were a number of other private schools in the area during this period as well but none survived to the present day.\nHealth.\nThere are no public hospitals in Ashfield although there are two private facilities. The Sydney Private Hospital on the corner of Victoria Street and Robert Street first opened in 1931 as the Masonic Hospital. It did at one point have an Accident and Emergency Unit, an Intensive Care Unit, and a Maternity Unit. All of these were closed down in 2000 when the hospital changed ownership. It now focuses on elective surgery. The Wesley Private Hospital in Frederick Street is a well-established mental health facility.\nLandmarks.\nFor visitors passing through Ashfield along Parramatta Road, Liverpool Road or the railway line, the three main landmarks that stand out are the tower of the old Peek Frean Biscuit factory (now Bunnings Warehouse) on Parramatta Road, Wests Leagues Club on Liverpool Road next to the railway line and the Ashfield water reservoir in Holden Street to the south of the town centre. The water tower was built in 1912 and provides the water supply for the surrounding areas.\nHouses.\nAshfield Council produced a number of guides for heritage walks in the area, but these guides are not being printed anymore. Some of the important heritage buildings in Ashfield, from Ashfield Council's heritage guide, are found in the section below. The Inner West Council does not currently have any guides for the Ashfield area although they do have heritage guides for Balmain and Leichhardt.\nTo the south of the town centre are Plynlimmon (built 1867) in Norton St and now a child care centre; Glenore (built 1897) and Buninyong (built 1901), two adjacent properties in Tintern Road; Mountjoy (built 1870) now part of the hospital in Victoria Street; Glentworth (built 1887) also in Victoria Street and now part of a retirement village; Ashfield Castle (built 1887) in Queen Street and originally known as Ambleside; Thirning Villa, (built 1868) and now part of Pratten Park; Gallop House in Arthur Street, now part of a nursing home; and Milton in Blackwood Avenue, which was built in the 1850s and was once home to NSW Premier Sir Henry Parkes. North of the railway line are Pittwood in Charlotte Street, formerly part of a nursing home but now used by Sydney Missionary and Bible College; the impressive tower of Amesbury (built 1888) in Alt Street; nearby Taringa in Taringa Street; and Gorton in Henry Street, which was built in 1860 and since 1876 has been the Infants Home. On Lapish Avenue on the western end of town still stands a street scape of five Art Deco Sydney Bungalow styled semi-detached pairs and a block of units at each end that were designed and built during World War II as speculative housing the full history of the land has been meticulously research and documented.\nA number of these properties are listed on the Register of the National Estate including Amesbury, Ashfield Castle, Buninyong, Glenore, Taringa and two unnamed Gothic houses at 177-179 Norton Street. Also listed on the Register are Ashfield Park (see Parks section), the police and fire station in Victoria Street, and the band rotunda in Yeo Park.\nChurches.\nThe first church in Ashfield was St. John the Baptist's Anglican Church in Alt Street. It was part of Elizabeth Underwood's 1838 subdivision that gave rise to the village of Ashfield and was reserved by her for the purpose of 'the erection of an Episcopalian Church'. Prior to then, Anglican church services had been held in her house. Work on St Johns began in 1840 and after the project was taken over by colonial architect Edmund Blacket, it was consecrated in 1845. It is the oldest surviving building in Ashfield.\nIn 1842, neighbouring landowner Robert Campbell made an acre of land between Liverpool Road and Norton Street available for a Methodist chapel and schoolhouse. In 1864, a larger building was erected on the site which still exists as the Ashfield Uniting Church. It is also home of the Exodus Foundation providing 400 meals a day to the needy.\nThe Presbyterians did not build a local church until 1876, choosing a site on the corner of Liverpool Road and Knox Street. Prior to this they attended St David's in Haberfield. Although they later built a larger church on the same Knox Street site, the original church is located at the southwestern corner of the property, having been moved twice from its original location.\nCatholic services began in the area in 1880 with the establishment of Bethlehem College. Services quickly outgrew the school's small chapel and in 1894, the Vincentian Fathers started building a church in Bland Street, opposite Bethlehem. Designed by Catholic Architects Sheerin and Hennessy in a grand Romanesque style, St Vincents was completed in 1907.\nThe Baptists held their first service in the School of Arts building on the corner of Liverpool Road and Holden Street. After building a small church further down Holden Street in 1886, they returned to the School of Arts in 1903 which then became known as the Baptist Tabernacle. In 1937, they sold the building, which was knocked down and replaced with a cinema, and moved to their current site on the corner of Holden and Norton Streets. It is Gothic in style with a landmark tower, an impressive street facade and a sympathetically designed adjoining hall.\nThe Seventh-day Adventists have had a church in Ashfield for over 100 years. The church was first established from a series of camp meetings held in the area in the late 1890s. The current church is located on Charlotte Street.\nParks.\nFrom the late 1870s, meetings were held in Ashfield in support of a new 106-acre reserve in the district for the enjoyment of locals at a time when housing subdivision was rapidly increasing. \nAshfield Park on Parramatta Road is one of the largest public parklands in inner west Sydney. It features large phoenix palms, a war memorial, a children's playground with a statue of Mary Poppins (in recognition of the author PL Travers who lived nearby between 1918\u20131924), a monument to International Mother Language Day built by former artist-in-residence Ian Marr and the Bangladeshi community, a statue of Philippines national hero Jose Rizal, a sporting field and one of Sydney's oldest bowling clubs. The park, which is just over 6 hectares in area, was proclaimed in 1885 when it was claimed at the time you could 'see all the way to Martin Place'.\nThe area's major sporting ground is Pratten Park, home of the Western Suburbs grade cricket club in summer and used by the Canterbury District Soccer Football Association in winter. There are also tennis courts and a bowling club adjacent to the main oval. Thirning Villa, located within the park, is home to the Ashfield District Historical Society and an artist in residence sponsored by the local council.\nThe other sporting field in the area is at Hammond Park on Frederick Street. It predates both Ashfield Park and Pratten Park having begun life in 1877 as a private cricket ground. In 1888, it was intended to be the setting for the first descent of a parachute from a hot air balloon in Australia. Unfortunately, the parachutist (JT Williams) missed the mark and landed in Homebush, roughly 4\u00a0km away. This park was also the site of an ice skating rink in the late 1800s.\nThe other parks of note in the area are Yeo Park on the southern edge of the suburb and featuring a National Heritage listed band rotunda, and Explorers Park on the corner of Parramatta Road and Liverpool Road, built to commemorate the point where many early British explorers began their journeys west and south. It also features engraved images from early indigenous people in Sydney.\nSwimming pools.\nThe Ashfield Olympic Swimming Centre was first opened on 26 January 1963 by NSW Premier Bob Heffron on Elizabeth Street, Ashfield. It had an outdoor 50 metre pool, a diving pool and tower (also used for water polo), children's pools and later a heated indoor 25 metre pool. The site is highly visible from trains passing on the western line immediately to the south. Due to ongoing dilapidation all pools and buildings were demolished in 2018 when the Inner West Council undertook a $44.7 million redevelopment of the site, reopening on 17 October 2020 as the Ashfield Aquatic Centre with five new pools. The outdoor 50\u00a0m pool is open all year round and heated in winter. The facility also includes a multipurpose outdoor pool with an adjustable/moveable floor (which can change its depth by 2.1\u00a0m), an outdoor children's pool, an indoor 25-metre multipurpose pool, an indoor baby/toddlers pool, health and fitness centre, sauna, steam and spa, cr\u00e8che, caf\u00e9 and retail space.\nGovernance.\nThe suburb of Ashfield is within the Inner West Council local government area, in the Inner West region of Sydney in the state of New South Wales, Australia.\nFor federal elections, Ashfield is part of the electoral division of Grayndler, currently held by Labor's Anthony Albanese. Since 1977, it has mostly been in this division although parts have been in the neighbouring Divisions of Lowe and Watson at various times. Previously, the suburb was in the electorate of Parkes from Federation in 1901 until 1949. From then until 1977, it was in the now abolished electorate of Evans.\nFor state elections, Ashfield is part of the Summer Hill electorate. Before the 2015 state election, the suburb was split between the electoral divisions of Strathfield and Canterbury. Prior to 1894, Ashfield was in the state electorate of Canterbury. From 1894 until 1999, there was a state electorate of Ashfield, which was abolished when the state government decided to reduce the total number of electorates in the state.\nDemographics.\nIn the of Population and Housing, Ashfield had a population of 23,012 people, in an area of 3.5 square kilometres. The median age (36) was slightly younger than the national average (38) while the median household income ($1,888 per week) was better off than the national average but lower than the figure for the Greater Sydney region.\nOne area where Ashfield differed markedly from the national figures was in its ethnic mix. The most common reported ancestries in Ashfield at the 2021 census were Chinese 22.1%, English 18.6%, Australian 14.9%, Irish 8.4% and Nepalese 6.9%. Australian born residents are also a plurality with 45.4% of Ashfield residents being Australian-born. The most other common countries of birth were China 12.2%, Nepal 6.7%, India 3.2%, Philippines 2.9% and England 2.1%. 46.0% of people only spoke English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Mandarin 12.5%, Nepali 6.8%, Cantonese 5.3%, Italian 2.2% and Spanish 1.7%.\nThe most common responses for religion were No Religion 39.6%, Catholic 20.6%, Hinduism 9.5% and Buddhism 6.5%.\nThe other area where Ashfield differs is its housing. Of the 9,266 occupied private dwellings counted, 69.9% were flats (compared to the national figure of 14.2%), 22.1% were detached houses, while 7.4% were semi-detached or attached houses. \nAshfield also had a higher than average number of people renting (50.5%) compared to houses owned outright (22.3%) or being purchased (22.8%).\nNotable residents.\nThe following notable people were born or lived in Ashfield:\nCulture.\nEvents.\nThe major community event in Ashfield each year is the \"Carnival of Cultures\", a celebration of the area's multiculturalism. Held every year since 1996 in Ashfield Park, it includes performances, food stalls and children's entertainment.\nIn recent years, the Sydney Writers' Festival has also held part of its library program in Ashfield as part of the regular \"Authors at Ashfield\" \"(since the 2016 merger to the Inner West Council, it has been known as 'speaker series')\" series of talks.\nArts.\nAshfield Council developed a program of community arts in the suburb, which has continued into the merge into Inner West Council in 2016. This included the funding of an artist-in-residence program, who is based at Thirning Villa in Pratten Park. The current artist is the Refugee Art Project and New Moon Collective.\nPart of their residency involves artist talks, community workshops and teaching/educating at local schools. In front of Thirning Villa is Ashfield's version of the Rosetta Stone, made by former artist-in-residence Ian Marr and featuring a passage from the Iliad by Homer in twelve different community languages. Another former artist was the writer Van Badham.\nSport.\nAshfield has a long history with the sport of rugby league. The Western Suburbs Magpies rugby league team was formed in Ashfield in 1908 and played in the inaugural New South Wales Rugby League competition that year. The club won its four premierships (1930, 1934, 1948 &amp; 1952) while based at Pratten Park. It moved west to Lidcombe Oval in 1967, then southwest to Campbelltown Stadium in 1987. In 2000, the club merged with the Balmain Tigers to form the Wests Tigers which splits its games between Leichhardt Oval and Campbelltown. The Wests Leagues Club has stayed in Ashfield since 1908 despite the wanderings of its home ground.\nAshfield also holds a cycling milestone when it hosted the first woman's cycling race in the world in 1888. Dorothy Morrell won the two-mile (3\u00a0km) race.\nAshfield is the site of the first official Australian cricket pitch, which was established in 1875 and originally owned and leased by a local butcher. It was later sold to the Ashfield Cricket Club and then, in 1910, to Ashfield Council who renamed it \"Hammond Park\" after former mayor Mark J. Hammond."}
{"id": "708807", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708807", "title": "Samuel J. Palmisano", "text": "Samuel J. \"Sam\" Palmisano (born July 29, 1951) is a former president and the eighth chief executive officer of IBM until January 2012. He also was chairman of the company until October 1, 2012.\nPalmisano was appointed president and chief operating officer (COO) effective in October 2000. He was promoted to CEO in March 2002, while retaining the title of president, and named chairman effective January 1, 2003. Palmisano announced on October 25, 2011, that he was stepping aside as president and CEO. He was succeeded in these positions by Ginni Rometty.\nAs of 2009, IBM was the largest IT company in the world and 45th largest company overall.\nEducation and personal life.\nPalmisano grew up in an Italian-American middle class family in Baltimore, Maryland. His father owned a body shop.\nAs an offensive lineman at Calvert Hall College High School in Baltimore, Maryland he prepared earnestly, studying pregame scouting reports and seldom missed a blocking assignment. He was also a union musician, and once was the opening act and played backup saxophone for The Temptations.\nHe holds a bachelor's degree in history from Johns Hopkins University where he was member of Beta Theta Pi. He also played football (center, offensive tackle, team co-captain) there, and turned down an opportunity to try out with the Oakland Raiders.\nHe met his wife, Gaier Notman, a 1969 alumna of Miss Porter's School, at an IBM training school.\nCareer.\nIBM 1973-2012.\nPalmisano joined IBM in 1973 as a salesman.\nFrom 1989-1990, he had a one-year stint as executive assistant to then-chairman and CEO John F. Akers. During that time Palmisano was seen as a rising star and he had lunch with former chairman Thomas Watson, Jr. once per month. Palmisano afterwards ran the company's Japanese office.\nHe was appointed senior vice president and group executive of the Personal Systems Group in 1997. He was then promoted to senior vice president and group executive of IBM Global Services in 1998, during the period when IBM shifted its focus from pure technology to embrace outsourcing and other services. He became senior vice president and group executive of Enterprise Systems in 1999 when the systems group drove IBM's move to adopt the Linux operating system.\nBefore leading IBM Global Services, Palmisano led the IBM strategic outsourcing business and before that, he was president of an IBM subsidiary\u2014Integrated Systems Solutions Corporation\u2014which ultimately became IBM Global Services.\nPalmisano was elected president and chief operating officer (COO) effective in October 2000.\nChief Executive Officer.\nPalmisano was promoted to CEO in March 2002 and named chairman effective January 1, 2003, succeeding the retiring Louis V. Gerstner, Jr. after the Dot-com bubble bust. While his predecessor had saved the company from bankruptcy by downsizing the workforce and cutting costs and then leading IBM's resurgence with systems integration and services consulting (such as e-commerce), Palmisano's goal was to reestablish IBM as a standard-setting company. He was influenced by the Watsons, the company founders who \"always defined I.B.M. as a company that did more than sell computers; they believed that it had an important role to play in solving societal challenges\". \nPalmisano's mandate was to move into new businesses with high-profit margins and potential for innovation. This included purchasing PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting in 2002 so that IBM could go beyond selling computers and software and help customers use technology to solve business challenges (marketing, procurement, and manufacturing). During his tenure, the company also acquired 25 software companies that specialized in data mining and analytics so that IBM could help companies and governments to find patterns in web and internal data. Palmisano also prepared the company for cloud computing, originally known inside IBM as on-demand computing, where the center of innovation would be services and software, delivered over the Internet from data centers and connecting to PCs and other devices. \nIn 2008, despite the financial crisis and economic recession , he launched I.B.M.\u2019s Smarter Planet initiative which applies computer intelligence to create more efficient systems for numerous applications including utility grids and traffic management. Although the services and consulting businesses, which then-CEO Gerstner had championed, provided most of IBM's revenue, software analytics had higher margins, contributed more profits and had more growth.\nPalmisano also led the sale of the PC group to Lenovo which closed in 2005. The move was controversial inside IBM, as it had invented the personal computer in the 1980s, and the PC was one of the company's few products widely used by the masses and created strong brand recognition for IBM. Although it fell behind rivals during the 1990s, that division helped drive sales of other I.B.M. products in corporate accounts, and its purchasing power helped lower the cost of components for larger IBM offerings like mainframes and servers.\nAs IBM's PC group was profitable and generated around US$20 billion in yearly revenue, the divestiture resulted in IBM ceding the title of the world's largest information technology firm (by revenue) to Hewlett-Packard, the latter whose revenue had increased due to the acquisition of Compaq in 2002. However to Palmisano, moving to new high-margin businesses meant exiting low-margin businesses like PC manufacturing, plus PC manufacturing was becoming commoditized and offered few opportunities for innovation. It took five years but Palmisano was vindicated . Also recognizing that drives were becoming a commodity, he sold off IBM's disk drive business to Hitachi and then signed a five-year deal to buy Hitachi drives.\nAs CEO of IBM, Palmisano shifted many development and support positions to emerging markets.\nHe was elected to the board of ExxonMobil in 2006. In 2021, he was voted off the board after an ESG - based shareholder revolt led by activist hedge fund Engine 1. He is also the Honorary Chairman of National Engineers Week 2008.\nIn November 2008, Palmisano, during a speech at the Council on Foreign Relations, outlined IBM's Smarter Planet initiative.\nWhile CEO of IBM in 2009, Palmisano earned a total compensation of $21,159,289, which included a base salary of $1,800,000, a cash bonus of $4,750,000, stocks granted of $13,517,401, no options, and other compensation of $1,091,888.\nIn 2010 Palmisano was awarded The Deming Cup, an excellence award presented by the W. Edwards Deming Center for Quality, Productivity, and Competitiveness at Columbia Business School, for his ability to drive IBM to new levels of operational excellence and for his role in creating and leading IBM's Global Services business unit.\nPalmisano announced on October 25, 2011, that he was stepping aside as president and CEO, being succeeded by Ginni Rometty effective on January 1, 2012. Palmisano continued as chairman until October 1, 2012.\nAfter IBM.\nSamuel J. Palmisano is the chairman of the Center for Global Enterprise, a private, nonprofit, nonpartisan research institution devoted to the study of contemporary corporation, the management science in a globally interconnected world. The CGE was established in 2013 to help educate societal stakeholders \u2013 as well as leaders from the private sector, public sector, and academia \u2013 on the globally integrated economy and its promise for a better future.\nIn May 2013, Bloomberg LP appointed Palmisano as an independent advisor for the company's privacy and data standards.\nIn February 2016, President Barack Obama appointed Palmisano as the vice chairman of a new White House cybersecurity commission tasked with helping the country better defend itself against and withstand cyber attacks, the Commission on Enhancing National Cybersecurity."}
{"id": "708808", "revid": "25859633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708808", "title": "CIA World Factbook", "text": ""}
{"id": "708811", "revid": "9336033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708811", "title": "Brig o' Balgownie", "text": "The Brig o' Balgownie is a 13th-century bridge spanning the River Don in Old Aberdeen, Scotland.\nConstruction of the bridge was begun in the late 13th century by Richard Cementarius, but not completed until 1320 at the time of the Scottish War of Independence. After falling into disrepair in the mid 16th century it was extensively renovated from 1607 to 1611.\nThroughout its history the bridge has been considered an important asset. For five centuries possession of the bridge was the only way to move large armies quickly along the eastern coast of Aberdeenshire. It also provided a trade route to the wealthy areas of the north-east of Scotland.\nThe bridge is constructed of granite and sandstone. Its single gothic arch has span of over and at low tide the apex of the arch lies over above the water-line.\nThe bridge ceased to be a major route in 1830 when the new Bridge of Don was built downstream.\nHistory.\nThe text below is taken from the notes of a public talk \"History of the Brig o'Balgownie\" given by Dr. Christopher P. Croly from the Archaeological Unit at Aberdeen City Council.\nOrigin of the bridge's name.\nThe name \"Balgownie\" comes from the surrounding area, Balgownie, which from an early time was a barony. The name itself has a Gaelic origin, but is a source of some debate. Some authorities believe that the first part of the name derives from \"Baile\" and means \"town\". However the very earliest references to the barony, or settlement, of Balgownie invariably have the word as Palgoueny, or Polgowny, or a number of minor variants, generally starting with \"Pol\". \"Pol\" relates to a pool, probably the one known as the \"black neuk\". However it may be that P and B are interchangeable and the distinction may not affect the meaning. There are two possible suggestions for the second part, some say that \"gabhainn\", genitive of \"gabhann\", means \"of a cattle-fold\" whilst others have asserted that it derives from \"gobhainn\" which indicates a blacksmith, or just a smith.\nThe first recorded instance of the name of Polgowny dates from 1256, but it is in all likelihood older.\nWho built the bridge.\nThe familiar story is that the stone bridge was commissioned by either Bishop Henry Cheyne or Robert the Bruce, or indeed was begun by the former and completed by the latter, and that the work was done by Richard Cementarius. It is said that Cheyne started the work but fled Bruce's troops, and then Bruce finished the work later on. However, the earliest written version of the origins of the bridge is slightly at odds with later ones. The first written history of the bridge was by Sir Alexander Hay, in a charter of 1605. In the charter he wrote that the bridge \"was built by command, and at the expense of, the deceased most invincible prince, Robert Bruce, king of the Kingdom of Scotland.\" This account only contains one element of what becomes a fairly consistent story. Parson Gordon was the first to record a fuller version of the story some sixty years after Hay. He wrote: \"No man can certainly tell who builded the Bridge of Done. The commone and most probable reporte is that the renouned Prince Robert Bruisse, King of Scotland, at such tyme as he banished B. Henrie Cheyne from his sea, and drave him out of Scotland beside, did command for to sequester the bishops yeerlie revenue to be imployed towards pious uses, and that this bridge (which is lyke to be true) was builted with a part of that revenue.\"\nThus the two earliest versions of this story both put the onus for building the bridge on Robert the Bruce, and neither mention involvement by Bishop Cheyne. This story has been repeated a number of times over the centuries often with only minor changes. In 1780 Francis Douglas wrote that it \"is said to have been built by Henry Cheyne, bishop of Aberdeen, about the year 1290, or by King Robert the Bruce, who perhaps completed what the bishop had begun.\" In the 19th century Camden wrote that \"it was projected by Bishop Henry Cheyne \u2026 and built at his expense\". In the 20th century Alexander Keith tells all elements of the story: that it was started by Bruce or Cheyne, but certainly completed by the former. He favours the Bruce version citing Hay and Boece as his evidence. The story about the involvement of Cementarius is an entirely new one, and seems to be no older than the 20th century. It was perhaps first stated by W. Douglas Simpson.\nRichard Cementarius is often cited as the first Provost of Aberdeen, or rather the first Alderman. However, that can not be correct: what would be correct would be to say that he is the first person whose name has been connected with that office in some official document, and that therefore he is the first \"recorded\" Provost of Aberdeen. However that does not seem to be true either. Certainly Richard is an historical figure: there is a contemporary reference to Richard in the Exchequer Rolls return for Aberdeen of 1264 which refers to \"Magistro Ri. Cementario\" in the context of work being carried out of Aberdeen Castle. What is important is that he is not specifically described as \"provost\". Other documents about him all refer to him as a burgess of the Burgh, but never as provost. Moreover, he seems to have been dead by 1294. In that year Malcolm of Palogoueny and Duncan the merchant, both described as burgesses, wrote a charter in which they acted as guarantors of the estate of the late Richard, also described as burgess. He had left monies and annual rents to the altar of St John the Apostle in the Church of St Nicholas. The altar itself he seems to have founded in 1277. So from these it is probable that he was alive in 1277 but dead by 1294, therefore any involvement that he had with building the bridge would have to have been before 1294. As we do not know when the bridge was built it is unclear if he could have been involved. But it is a modern story whose only real prop is the similarity between the arch in the bridge and an arch in Drum Castle, also ascribed to Cementarius, but not proved and that certainly needs more research. However, it may simply have reflected a common building style.\nMaintenance.\nBefore 1605 there was no regular means for funding maintenance of the bridge, and due to a lack of substantial monies some of the work repairs were necessarily temporary in nature. By 1605 the bridge was in a state of major deterioration when Sir Alexander Hay of Whytburgh established a fund for the maintenance of the bridge and various other entities also raised money to contribute to the bulk of repairs required, resulting in its complete renovation between 1607 and 1611. The first actual use of Hay's fund was for purchasing new cobblestones in 1616, and the fund has been maintained since by Aberdeen Council."}
{"id": "708812", "revid": "51826454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708812", "title": "Daya Nayak", "text": "Daya Nayak is a retired Indian Police officer of the Mumbai Police. He joined the department in 1995, and rose to fame as an encounter specialist in the late 1990s, as a member of the Detection Unit. He retired on 31st July 2025. He was reinstated in Mumbai Police in January 2026, as a consultant.\nEarly life.\nDaya Nayak was born at Yennehole village of the Karkala taluk, Udupi district in a Konkani-speaking family. He studied till the 7th standard in a Kannada - medium school built by his grandfather. In 1979, he came to Mumbai, after his father asked him to earn some money to help the family. He worked at a hotel canteen, sleeping on the hotel's porch. He continued his education while working, and graduated 8 years later from the CES college in D. N. Nagar. After graduating, he started working with a plumber as a supervisor, earning a monthly salary of 3,000. He continued staying at the hotel until he got a police job. He was an encounter specialist.\nPolice career.\nDaya Nayak joined the Mumbai Police (then known as the Bombay Police) as a trainee with the rank of Sub-Inspector in 1995. After completing his training, he was posted to the Juhu police station in 1996. His first encounter killing occurred on the night of 31 December, where he opened fire upon two gangsters working for Chhota Rajan. Subsequently, he was shifted to the special squad working against the gangsters.\nIn 1997, he was hospitalised after being shot twice and badly wounded by a gangster. Nayak disapproved of being termed an \"encounter specialist\", insisting he is not a trigger-happy man but was instead forced to kill gangsters to prevent more \"bloodshed and mayhem\".\nSchool in Yennehole.\nDaya Nayak built a school in his native village Yennehole. The money for building the school was collected through donations from Bollywood personalities in name of the Radha Nayak Educational Trust (named after Nayak's mother). The school was inaugurated by Amitabh Bachchan in 2000 in presence of celebrities like M. F. Husain, Suniel Shetty and Aftab Shivdasani. It was later handed over to the Government of Karnataka, and is now known as the Radha Nayak Government High School.\nCorruption allegations.\nIn 2003, Ketan Tirodkar, a journalist, accused Daya Nayak of having links with the Mumbai underworld, and of amassing wealth disproportionate to his income through illegal means. Tirodkar alleged that he had become friends with Nayak in 2002, and ran an extortion business with him.\nNayak was investigated by the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court for links with the underworld. He came out clean in investigations conducted by ACP Shankar Kamble in 2003 and by DCP K L Bishnoy in 2004. He was given clean chit after another inquiry by ACP Dilip Sawant in 2004. The same year, Tirodkar was taken into custody on the charge of having links with the Dubai-based don Chota Shakeel.\nIn 2006, Nayak was arrested during an investigation led by ACP Bhim Rao Ghadge of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). ACB officials raided his house on 21 January 2006. The school built by him was also raided without the knowledge or approval of the Karnataka state government. On 18 February 2006, a sessions court issued a non-bailable warrant against him in the disproportionate assets case after his anticipatory bail plea was rejected by the sessions court, the Bombay High Court and after the Supreme Court of India declined to interfere in the case and directed him to surrender.\nThe 2003 complaint against him stated that he had amassed wealth worth crores of rupees. The ACB found his assets to be worth far less \u2013 Rs. 8,917,000, but still filed a chargesheet against him, stating that these assets were disproportionate to Nayak's monthly salary of 10,000 as a sub-inspector. Nayak was accused of floating bogus companies with help of his associate Rajendra Padte, and getting his wife Komal to take out property loans.\nThe ACB summoned them 27 times, but could not find any evidence. He was arrested at the insistence of IPS officer Pradnya Saravade. He was jailed for 26 days, before appealing to the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC).\nNayak insisted that all his money was accounted for, and every transaction was made by cheque. He also pointed out that his assets had been shown as inflated. For example, his Tata Sumo was a government vehicle and the 200,000 rupee expense reimbursed by the government for a post-encounter hospital stay had been counted as an asset. The ACB alleged that Nayak had transferred 1\u00a0billion to a foreign contact from a cyber caf\u00e9 in Goa. It claimed that he was in Goa on 18 January 2006, but his duty records proved that he was at the Charkop Police station. ACB also brought up the point that a person called D Naik had travelled several times between Mumbai and Goa by air. It was later found out that the person was the Goa minister Damodar Naik.\nAccording to Nayak's supporters, he was framed by some of his colleagues who had close criminals ties, with whom Nayak had fought. Nayak himself termed Ghadge as the \"most corrupt officer\", and alleged that Ghadge had filed an FIR against him after he refused his demand for a bribe of 10\u00a0million.\nIn 2008, after the Soharbuddin Sheikh encounter case came to light, Tirodkar filed one more affidavit stating that Daya Nayak was involved in the death of Sadiq Jamal, another alleged fake encounter by the Gujarat Police. According to Tirodkar, the Gujarat police had asked Daya Nayak and him to supply \"a Muslim boy with some criminal background\" to them, and in response, Nayak handed over Sadiq Jamal.\nIn 2010, the Court quashed all MCOCA charges against him.\nAfter reinstatement.\nOn 16 June 2012, the Maharashtra Police reinstated Nayak. He was posted in the Local Arms unit. He was then posted to the Western Zone, and worked out of Bandra. In January 2014, he was transferred to Nagpur. However, he did not report there, and was suspended in July 2015. The transfer order was cancelled in August 2015, and Nayak was reinstated in Mumbai Police on 11 January 2016. \nNayak was promoted as a Sr. Inspector in January 2024.\nOn 29 July, 2025 he was promoted to Assistant Commissioner of the Police. Two days after promotion, Nayak retired after 30 years of service.\nIn popular culture.\nThe Hindi films \"Ab Tak Chhappan\" by Shimit Amin and N Chandra's \"Kagaar\" are based on Nayak's personal experiences, as is the Kannada film \"Encounter Daya Nayak\". \"Ab Tak Chhappan\" was later remade into Telugu as \"Siddham\". The 2007 film \"Risk\" by Vishram Sawant has overtones from Daya Nayak's life. - A Telugu film, titled \"Golimaar\" released in 2010 is also inspired by his life. The 2012 Bollywood film \"Department\" highlights the encounter specialists of the Mumbai Police; Daya Nayak's role is played by Sanjay Dutt. A sequel to \"Ab Tak Chhappan\" was released in February 2015 titled \"Ab Tak Chhappan 2.\"\nAnother Telugu film titled \"Temper\", was released in 2015 and the protagonist's name was also titled after him."}
{"id": "708814", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708814", "title": "Gordon Jenkins", "text": "Gordon Hill Jenkins (May 12, 1910 \u2013 May 1, 1984) was an American arranger, composer, and pianist who was influential in popular music in the 1940s and 1950s. Jenkins worked with The Andrews Sisters, Johnny Cash, The Weavers, Frank Sinatra, Louis Armstrong, Judy Garland, Nat King Cole, Billie Holiday, Harry Nilsson, Peggy Lee and Ella Fitzgerald.\nBiography.\nCareer.\nGordon Jenkins was born in Webster Groves, Missouri. He began his career writing arrangements for a radio Station in St. Louis. He was hired by Isham Jones, the director of a dance band known for its ensemble playing, which gave Jenkins the opportunity to develop his skills in melodic scoring. He also conducted \"The Show Is On\" on Broadway.\nAfter the Jones band broke up in 1936, Jenkins worked as a freelance arranger and songwriter, contributing to sessions by Isham Jones, Paul Whiteman, Benny Goodman, Andre Kostelanetz, Lennie Hayton, and others. In 1938, Jenkins moved to Hollywood and worked for Paramount Pictures and NBC, and then became Dick Haymes' arranger for four years. In 1944, Jenkins had a hit song with \"San Fernando Valley\". In the 1940s, he was music director for the radio version of the program \"Mayor of the Town\", and his orchestra provided the music for Ransom Sherman's program on CBS.\nIn 1945, Jenkins joined Decca Records. In 1947, he had his first million-seller with \"Maybe You'll Be There\" featuring vocalist Charles LaVere and, in 1949, had a hit with Victor Young's film theme \"My Foolish Heart\", which was also a success for Billy Eckstine. At the same time, he regularly arranged for and conducted the orchestra for various Decca artists, including Dick Haymes (\"Little White Lies\", 1947), Ella Fitzgerald (\"Happy Talk\", 1949, \"Black Coffee\", 1949, \"Baby\", 1954), Billie Holiday (\"Crazy He Calls Me\", \"You're My Thrill\", \"Please Tell Me Now\", \"Somebody's on My Mind\", 1949, and conducted and produced her last Decca session with \"God Bless the Child\", \"This Is Heaven to Me\", 1950), Patty Andrews of the Andrews Sisters (\"I Can Dream, Can't I\", 1949) and Louis Armstrong (\"Blueberry Hill\", 1949 and \"When It's Sleepy Time Down South\", 1951).\nJenkins wrote the score for the Broadway revue, \"Along Fifth Avenue\", starring Nancy Walker and Jackie Gleason, which ran for 180 performances in 1949.\nThe liner notes to Verve Records' 2001 reissue of one of Jenkins' albums with Armstrong, \"Satchmo In Style\", quote Decca's A &amp; R director Milt Gabler, saying that Jenkins \"stood up on his little podium so that all the performers could see him conduct. But before he gave a downbeat, Gordon made a speech about how much he loved Louis and how this was the greatest moment in his life. And then he cried.\"\nDuring this time, Jenkins also began recording and performing under his own name. One of his enduring works while at Decca was a pair of Broadway-style musical vignettes, \"Manhattan Tower\" and \"California\" which saw release several times (78s, 45s, and LP) in the 1940s and 1950s. The two were paired on a very early Decca LP in 1949, and Jenkins was given the Key to New York City by its mayor when Jenkins's orchestra performed the 16-minute suite on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" in the early 1950s. \"Manhattan Tower\" was also a Patti Page LP album, issued by Mercury Records as catalog number MG-20226 in 1956. It is her version of Gordon Jenkins' popular 1948/1956 \"Manhattan Tower\" suite and the album charted at No. 18 on the Billboard charts. The album was reissued, combined with the 1956 Patti Page album \"You Go to My Head\", in compact disc format, by Sepia Records on September 4, 2007. Jenkins also made a rare excursion into film work in 1952 when he scored the action film \"Bwana Devil\", the first 3-D movie shot in color.\nHis \"Seven Dreams\" released in 1953 included \"Crescent City Blues\", which was the source for Johnny Cash's popular recording, \"Folsom Prison Blues\". In 1956, he expanded \"Manhattan Tower\" to almost three times its length, released it (this time on Capitol Records), and performed it on an hour-long television show. (Both versions of \"Manhattan Tower\" are currently available on CD.) His final long-form work was \"The Future\", which made up the entire third disk of Frank Sinatra's 1980 Grammy-nominated \"\" album. Although the piece was savaged by critics, Sinatra reportedly loved the semi-biographical work and felt that Jenkins was treated unfairly by the media.\nJenkins headlined New York's Capitol Theater between 1949 and 1951 and the Paramount Theater in 1952. He appeared in Las Vegas in 1953 and many times thereafter. He worked for NBC as a TV producer from 1955 to 1957, and performed at the Hollywood Bowl in 1964. By 1949, Jenkins was musical director at Decca, and he signed \u2013 despite resistance from Decca's management \u2013 the Weavers, a Greenwich Village folk ensemble that included Pete Seeger among its members. The combination of the Weavers' folk music with Jenkins' orchestral arrangements became popular. Their most notable collaboration was a version of Lead Belly's \"Goodnight Irene\" (1950) backed by Jenkins' adaptation of the Israeli folk song, \"Tzena, Tzena, Tzena\". Other notable songs they recorded together are \"The Roving Kind\", \"On Top of Old Smoky\" (1951), and \"Wimoweh\" (1952).\nAlso while at Decca Records Jenkins arranged and conducted several songs for Peggy Lee including her 1952 major hit recording of Rodgers and Hart's \"Lover\", which she also performed in the Warner Bros. remake of \"The Jazz Singer\" (1952 film). Lee also had chart successes with the Jenkins-arranged \"Be Anything (But Be Mine)\" and \"Just One of Those Things\".\nAfter a brief stint with RCA's \"X\" Records which produced the album \"Gordon Jenkins' Almanac\" in 1956, Jenkins was hired by Capitol, where he worked with Frank Sinatra, notably on the albums \"Where Are You?\" (1957) and \"No One Cares\" (1959), and Nat King Cole, with whom he had his greatest successes; Jenkins was responsible for the lush arrangements on the 1957 album \"Love Is the Thing\" (Capitol's first stereo release, which included \"When I Fall in Love\", and \"Star Dust\" two of Cole's best-known recordings), as well as the albums \"The Very Thought of You\" (1958) and \"Where Did Everyone Go?\" (1963). Jenkins also wrote the music and lyrics for Judy Garland's 1959 album \"The Letter\" which also featured vocalist Charles LaVere, and conducted several of Garland's London concerts in the early 1960s.\nWhilst most of Jenkins' arrangements at Capitol were in his distinctive string-laden style, he continued to demonstrate more versatility when required, particularly on albums such as \"A Jolly Christmas From Frank Sinatra\" (1957), which opens with a swinging version of \"Jingle Bells\", and Nat King Cole's album of spirituals, \"Every Time I Feel The Spirit\" (1960), which includes several tracks with a pronounced formula_1 beat that might almost be described as rock. He also produced a diverse set of charts for his critically acclaimed 1960 album \"Gordon Jenkins Presents Marshal Royal\", a jazz-pop crossover project with Count Basie's alto saxophonist which included both strings and a swinging rhythm section.\nHowever, as rock and roll gained ascendancy in the 1960s, Jenkins' lush string arrangements fell out of favor and he worked only sporadically. However, Sinatra, who had left Capitol to start his own label, Reprise Records, continued to call upon the arranger's services at various intervals over the next two decades, on albums such as \"All Alone\" (1962), \"September of My Years\" (1965), for which Jenkins won a Grammy Award, \"Ol' Blue Eyes Is Back\" (1973), and \"She Shot Me Down\" (1981). Jenkins also worked with Harry Nilsson, arranging and conducting \"A Little Touch of Schmilsson in the Night\" (1973), an album of jazz standards. The Nilsson sessions, with Jenkins conducting, were recorded on video and later broadcast as a television special by the BBC.\nAlthough best known as an arranger, Jenkins also wrote several well-known songs, including \"P.S. I Love You\", \"Goodbye\" (Benny Goodman's sign-off tune), \"Blue Prelude\" (with Joe Bishop), \"This Is All I Ask\", and \"When a Woman Loves a Man\". Jenkins also composed both the \"Future\" suite and the entire \"Future\" section of Sinatra's 1980 concept album \"\", and scored the music for the 1980 film \"The First Deadly Sin\", which starred Sinatra in his last major film role.\nPersonal life.\nJenkins married high school sweetheart Nancy Harkey in 1931 and had three children: Gordon Jr., Susan, and Page. In 1946, he divorced Harkey and married Beverly Mahr, one of the singers in his band. They had a son, Bruce. Jenkins also recorded an album with Beverly Jenkins for Impulse! in 1964, entitled \"Gordon Jenkins Presents My Wife The Blues Singer\".\nToward the end of his life, he was in a near-fatal automobile accident, which left him debilitated. Nonetheless, he conducted a full orchestra for a recording session in spite of his pain.\nJenkins died of Lou Gehrig's disease in Malibu, California, eleven days shy of his 74th birthday.\nHis son, sports writer Bruce Jenkins, wrote a biography on his late father in 2005, titled 'Goodbye: In search of Gordon Jenkins' including a rare interview with Frank Sinatra among others for insights into Jenkins' process.\nJenkins' granddaughter, singer/songwriter Ella Dawn Jenkins, known as EllaHarp, is a career musician in San Francisco.\nAwards.\nIn 1966, Jenkins received a Grammy Award for Best Instrumental Arrangement Accompanying Vocalist(s) for Frank Sinatra's rendition of the song \"It Was a Very Good Year\"."}
{"id": "708819", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708819", "title": "William Warren Allmand", "text": ""}
{"id": "708820", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708820", "title": "Battleship row", "text": ""}
{"id": "708821", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708821", "title": "Frequently asked question", "text": ""}
{"id": "708822", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708822", "title": "Thriller fiction", "text": ""}
{"id": "708823", "revid": "45917458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708823", "title": "Jake McGoldrick", "text": "Jake McGoldrick is an English teacher and former member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors representing District 1, which includes the Richmond District neighborhood McGoldrick was elected in 2000 as part of the progressive majority of candidates that were swept into office that year.\nEarly life.\nA native of Philadelphia, McGoldrick lived in San Francisco for more than thirty years, much of that time in the Richmond District.\nHe graduated with BA in American Studies and MA in English from San Francisco State University. He has taught ESL at University of San Francisco since 1990.\nCareer.\nMcGoldrick was also a representative for San Francisco County in the Bay Area Air Quality Management District Board of Directors.\nMcGoldrick was sworn in as the District 1 Supervisor on January 8, 2001. He was re-elected to a second term in November 2004.\nIn 2007, local businessman David Heller, who had failed in his own run for the Board of Supervisors, announced his intention to collect signatures to recall McGoldrick. Business interests who wanted to recall McGoldrick failed to gather enough signatures to put it on the November ballot \u2013 falling about 1,000 signatures short. Proponents of this effort, which include the local Republican Party, tried and again failed to put the recall on the February 2008 ballot.\nAs supervisor, he was succeeded by San Francisco Board of Education Commissioner Eric Mar."}
{"id": "708826", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708826", "title": "Lewis Grassic Gibbon", "text": "James Leslie Mitchell (13 February 1901 \u2013 7 February 1935), known by the pseudonym Lewis Grassic Gibbon (), was a Scottish writer. He was best known for \"A Scots Quair\", a trilogy set in the north-east of Scotland in the early 20th century, of which all three parts have been serialised on BBC television.\nPersonal life.\nMitchell was born into a farming family in Auchterless and raised from the age of seven in Arbuthnott, in the former county of Kincardineshire. He was educated first at the parish school and then at Mackie Academy in Stonehaven. Mitchell started working as a journalist for the \"Aberdeen Journal\" in 1917 and later for the \"Farmers Weekly\" after moving to Glasgow. During that time he was active with the British Socialist Party.\nIn 1919, Mitchell joined the Royal Army Service Corps and served in Iran, India and Egypt before enlisting in the Royal Air Force in 1923. In the RAF he worked as a clerk and spent some time in the Middle East.\nWhen he married Rebecca Middleton (known as Ray) in 1925, they settled in Welwyn Garden City. He began writing full time in 1929, producing numerous books and shorter works under his real name and his pseudonym. He suffered an early death in 1935 from peritonitis, brought on by a perforated ulcer.\nMitchell's body was cremated at Golders Green Crematorium on 11 February 1935. Literary figures who attended the ceremony included Edwin Muir, James Barke, Donald Carswell, John Malcolm Bulloch and the Scots language poet Jean Baxter. When his ashes were interred at the cemetery in Arbuthnott on 23rd February, the Scottish literary community was represented by Nan Shepherd, Helen Cruickshank and Eric Linklater.\nFiction.\nMitchell gained attention from his earliest attempts at fiction, notably from H. G. Wells, but it was his trilogy entitled \"A Scots Quair\", and in particular its first book \"Sunset Song\", with which he made his mark. \"A Scots Quair\", with its combination of stream-of-consciousness, lyrical use of dialect, and social realism, is considered to be among the defining works of the 20th century Scottish Renaissance. It tells the story of Chris Guthrie, a young woman growing up in the north-east of Scotland in the early 20th century. All three parts of the trilogy have been turned into serials by BBC Scotland, written by Bill Craig, with Vivien Heilbron as Chris. Additionally, Sunset Song has been adapted into a film, released in 2015. \"Spartacus\", a novel set in the famous slave revolt, is his best-known full-length work outside this trilogy.\nIn 1932 he used the pseudonym Lewis Grassic Gibbon for the first time when 'Sunset Song' was published in August of that year. The name, Lewis Grassic Gibbon, is a variation of his maternal grandmother's name Lilias Grassick Gibbon. \nIn 1934 Mitchell collaborated with Hugh MacDiarmid on \"Scottish Scene\", which included three of Gibbon's short stories. His stories were collected posthumously in \"A Scots Hairst\" (1969). Possibly his best-known is \"Smeddum\", a Scots word which could be best translated as the colloquial term \"guts\". Like \"A Scots Quair\", it is set in north-east Scotland with strong female characters. In 1976 the BBC produced a \"Play for Today\", \"Clay, Smeddum and Greenden\", a dramatisation of three of his short stories by Bill Craig. Also notable is his essay \"The Land\".\nRemembrance.\nThe Grassic Gibbon Centre, attached to the local village hall, was established in Arbuthnott in 1991 to commemorate the author's life. Within it is a small museum about his life and work, as well as a caf\u00e9. There is a memorial to him and his wife, and other members of the Mitchell family, in the western corner of the village churchyard (parish church of Saint Ternan) of Arbuthnott Church, nowadays in Aberdeenshire.\nIn 2016 \"Sunset Song\" was voted Scotland's favourite novel in the BBC Love to Read campaign. A feature article on the novel has been written by Nicola Sturgeon, who edited a recent edition.\nBibliography.\nLewis Grassic Gibbon published 17 books during his life, as well as one published posthumously. 11 of them were printed under his real name of James Leslie Mitchell. Five were published under his pseudonym, Lewis Grassic Gibbon, with his final work published while he was alive, was published under both names. \nPosthumous works.\nThese works were all published under the name Lewis Grassic Gibbon.\nReviews.\nGlenda Norquay, \"Echoes from The Mearns\", reviewing \"The Speak of the Mearns\", in Sheila G. Hearn, ed., \"Cencrastus\" No. 13, Summer 1983, pp.\u00a054\u201355"}
{"id": "708828", "revid": "14383484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708828", "title": "Tupi\u2013Guarani", "text": ""}
{"id": "708829", "revid": "20151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708829", "title": "James Leslie Mitchell", "text": ""}
{"id": "708830", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708830", "title": "George Washington Wilson", "text": "George Washington Wilson (7 February 1823 \u2013 9 March 1893) was a pioneering Scottish photographer. In 1849, he began a career as a portrait miniaturist, switching to portrait photography in 1852. He received a contract to photograph the Royal Family, working for Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. He pioneered various techniques for outdoor photography and the mass production of photographic prints as he gradually began to largely do landscape photography in the 1860s. By 1864, he claimed to have sold over half a million copies.\nBiography.\nWilson was born in 1823 in Alvah, Banffshire. After studying art in Edinburgh and London, Wilson returned to his native city of Aberdeen in 1849 and established a business as a portrait miniaturist catering to the wealthy families of the North East of Scotland. After some years of mediocre success, Wilson ventured into portrait photography in 1852, setting up a portrait studio with John Hay in 25 Crown Street in Aberdeen. From there, aided by his well-developed technical and commercial acumen and a contract to photograph the Royal Family while documenting the building of Balmoral Castle in 1854\u20131855, he established himself as one of Scotland's premier photographers working for Queen Victoria and Prince Albert in 1860.\nPioneering the development of techniques for photography outside of the studio and the mass production of photographic prints, he moved increasingly from portraiture to landscape photography in the 1860s. He also produced stereoscopic pictures whose main characteristic was that exposures were very short. By 1864 he claimed to have sold over half a million prints.\nAt the time of his death in 1893 (he had handed over the business to his sons, Charles, Louis and John Hay Wilson in 1888) the firm employed 40 staff and was one of the largest publishers of photographic prints in the world, competing with James Valentine, who was also a prolific photographer, with a large company in Dundee. The business survived until 1908, when it was wound up at auction.\nHe died in 1893, aged 70, and was buried in Nellfield Cemetery in Aberdeen.\nCollection.\nOver 40,000 of Wilson's photographic glass plates survive, largely due to the meticulous washing and chemical treatments he insisted on. Aberdeen University is in possession of some 38,000 of these, which were donated by an Aberdeen photographer, the late Archie Strachan, in 1958. They date from the late 1850s down to the early years of the 20th century and cover not only Aberdeen and the North East of Scotland but the whole of Scotland and most of England, as well as parts of Wales and Northern Ireland, Gibraltar, Morocco including Tangier, the South of Spain, and (especially) colonial South Africa and Australia. A further 500+ photographic glass plates can be found in Aberdeen City Council Archives, Gallery and Museums Collection.\nFrom about 1870 onwards Wilson relied increasingly on others to add to his stock. Thus all of the Mediterranean Sea views and many of the English and Scottish series are the work of staff photographers, or were commissioned by the company from photographic firms elsewhere in the UK; and the Australian and South African images were added to the firm's stock in the 1890s by Charles Wilson (George's son) and staff photographers such as Fred Hardie."}
{"id": "708832", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708832", "title": "Rutebok for norge", "text": ""}
{"id": "708834", "revid": "14064649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708834", "title": "Frank Lampard", "text": "Frank James Lampard (born 20 June 1978) is an English football manager and former midfielder who is the manager of EFL Championship club Coventry City. Widely regarded as one of the greatest midfielders of all time and one of Chelsea's and the Premier League\u2019s greatest ever players, Lampard holds the record of the most Premier League goals (177) by a midfielder in its history.\nA box-to-box midfielder, Lampard began his career in 1995 at West Ham United, the club where his father Frank Sr. also played. In 2001, he was signed by London rivals Chelsea for \u00a311 million. In his thirteen years with the club, Lampard established himself as a prolific scorer from midfield, becoming the club's all-time leading goalscorer, with 211 goals in all competitions.\nAt Chelsea, Lampard won three Premier League titles, the UEFA Champions League, the UEFA Europa League, four FA Cups, and two League Cups. In 2005, he was named FWA Footballer of the Year, and finished runner-up for both the Ballon d'Or and FIFA World Player of the Year. After leaving Chelsea, Lampard played for league rivals Manchester City, and Major League Soccer club New York City FC before retiring in 2017. He ranked highly on a number of statistics for Premier League players for ten years from 1 December 2000, including most games and most wins.\nLampard played 106 matches and scored 29 goals for the England national team, after making his debut in 1999. He represented his country at three FIFA World Cups \u2013 in 2006, 2010 and 2014 \u2013 and in UEFA Euro 2004, where he was named in the Team of the Tournament. Lampard was voted England Player of the Year in 2004 and 2005.\nLampard is one of 11 players, and the only midfielder, to have scored 150 or more goals in the Premier League. He is fourth in the Premier League's all-time assists ranking, with 102 assists. Lampard holds a number of additional Chelsea and Premier League records, and has won PFA Fans' Player of the Year and the FWA Tribute Award. During his career, he was named in the PFA Team of the Year three times, Premier League Player of the Month four times, Premier League Player of the Season once and finished as the Premier League's top assist provider three times, and was named in the FIFPro World XI and a MLS All-Star. After departing, Lampard was named in the Chelsea Team of the Decade as voted for by Chelsea fans, and into the Premier League Hall of Fame.\nAfter retiring from international football, Lampard was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 2015 for services to football. Lampard served as a team captain on the ITV sport panel show \"Play to the Whistle\" from 2015 until 2017. He has also written a number of children's books.\nLampard began his managerial career with Derby County in 2018, leading the club to the final of that season's Championship play-offs. He returned to Chelsea as head coach a year later, guiding them to fourth place and the FA Cup Final in his first season, before being dismissed in 2021. Following a one-year spell with Everton, and a brief return to Chelsea as caretaker, Lampard joined Coventry City as manager in 2024.\nClub career.\nWest Ham United.\nLampard began his career at West Ham United, his father's former club, joining the youth team in 1994, his schoolboy hero being West Ham striker Frank McAvennie. Lampard joined West Ham when his father was the assistant coach, entering as an apprentice in the youth team in 1994 and signing a professional contract the following year. He went on loan to Second Division club Swansea City in October 1995, debuting in his team's victory 2\u20130 over Bradford City and scoring his first career goal in a match against Brighton &amp; Hove Albion. Lampard played nine times for Swansea before returning to West Ham in January 1996.\n1995\u201397: Development.\nLampard made his debut for West Ham on 31 January 1996 against Coventry City coming on as a substitute for John Moncur. His only other game of the season was the season's last, on 5 May 1996, a 1\u20131 home draw with Sheffield Wednesday when Lampard was used as a substitute for Keith Rowland.\nThe following season Lampard made his first start for West Ham, on 17 August 1996, in a 2\u20130 away defeat to Arsenal before being substituted for Robbie Slater. Lampard's season ended on 15 March 1997 when he sustained a broken leg during an away, 0\u20130 draw, against Aston Villa. Carried from the pitch on a stretcher, his 31st-minute substitute was Rio Ferdinand. The game also saw his first booking as a West Ham player. Lampard claims to have been jeered from the pitch by West Ham United supporters, an action which made him consider leaving football. He had made 16 appearances in all competitions for The Hammers.\n1997\u201399: First-team regular.\nFrom this season Lampard took the number 18 squad number having previously held the number 26 spot. On the first day of the 1997\u201398 season, West Ham opened their fixtures with an away game against Barnsley who were playing in the top tier of English football for the first time in 110 years. Lampard came on as a 76th-minute substitute for Eyal Berkovic. Barely a minute later he scored what was the winning goal in a 2\u20131 win for The Hammers having received the ball from Michael Hughes and flicking it past Barnsley goalkeeper David Watson. The season also saw his first hat-trick. On 19 November 1997, West Ham played Walsall in a League Cup, fourth-round game. Lampard's three goals plus another from John Hartson were enough to beat Walsall who responded via a goal from Andy Watson. Lampard made 42 appearances for the 1997\u201398 season in all competitions scoring nine goals.\nLampard was an ever-present for West Ham in the 1998\u201399 season, helping his team to fifth place in the 1998\u201399 Premier League and qualification for the UEFA Intertoto Cup. This is the highest West Ham have ever come in the league.\n1999\u20132001: New contract and departure.\nBefore the start of the 1999\u20132000 FA Premier League season, Lampard signed an extension to his contract which would have kept him with the club until 2005. Having qualified for the Intertoto Cup, West Ham's season started early, in July 1999. On 24 July 1999, Lampard scored his first goal in European football in a 1\u20131 away draw with Finnish side Jokerit. Another goal in the semi-final against Heerenveen put West Ham into the final against Metz. Despite losing the first leg 1\u20130 in London, West Ham won 3\u20131 in France on 24 August 1999 with goals from Trevor Sinclair, Paulo Wanchope and Lampard. Winning the competition saw West Ham in the 1999\u20132000 UEFA Cup. Lampard scored his first goal in this competition on 16 September 1999, in a 3\u20130 home win against Osijek, a tie which they won 6\u20131 on aggregate.\nThis season also saw West Ham beat Bradford City 5\u20134 at Upton Park in February 2000. The game received notoriety for Lampard's fight over the ball with Paolo Di Canio. With West Ham 4\u20132 down they gained a penalty. Lampard was West Ham's regular penalty taker. Di Canio, however, wanted to take the kick and the two tussled over the ball with Di Canio winning and scoring to make the game 4\u20133 to West Ham. In the 1999\u20132000, season he finished as the club's third top scorer, behind Di Canio and Paulo Wanchope, with a total of 14 goals.\nIn the 2000\u201301 season, West Ham's form suffered. They spent most of the season in the bottom half of the Premier League table. From fifth place the previous season they finished 15th. Despite this Lampard scored 9 goals in 37 games, behind only Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Kanout\u00e9 and Di Canio. In May 2001, his uncle Harry Redknapp left the club by mutual consent after seven years in the role. His father Frank also left the club and Lampard, under the pressure of being known as \"Frank Lampard's son\" and the poor treatment of his father by West Ham, decided to move to another club. He left West Ham for Chelsea for \u00a311\u00a0million in June 2001, the Hammers having previously declined a \u00a315\u00a0million joint bid from Aston Villa for Lampard and Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Kanout\u00e9.\nChelsea.\n2001\u201304: Signing and first-team breakthrough.\nLampard's Premier League debut with Chelsea came on 19 August 2001 in a 1\u20131 draw with Newcastle United on the opening day of the 2001\u201302 season, while his first red card came in a match against Tottenham Hotspur on 16 September 2001. He appeared in all of Chelsea's league matches and scored eight goals in the 2001\u201302 season. He netted the match-winner in Chelsea's 2002\u201303 season-opener against Charlton Athletic.\nThe following season, he was selected as the Premier League Player of the Month in September 2003, and the PFA Fans' Player of the Month in October. Chelsea finished second in the 2003\u201304 Premier League behind unbeaten Arsenal and he was named in the 2004 PFA Team of the Year as he reached double figures in league goals (10) for the first time in his career, in addition to four goals in fourteen UEFA Champions League matches, as Chelsea advanced to the semi-finals. In the semi-final against Monaco he scored, but Chelsea lost 5\u20133 on aggregate. At the end of the season, he came second behind Thierry Henry for the 2004 FWA Footballer of the Year award.\n2004\u201306: Back-to-back Premier League wins.\nLampard played in all 38 Premier League matches for the third consecutive season in 2004\u201305. He finished with 13 goals (19 in all competitions), in addition to leading the league in assists with 18.\nIn August 2004, he scored the winning goal against Southampton in the Premier League, and continued scoring important goals as he scored both in a 2\u20130 win against Tottenham. In March 2005 he scored a long-range goal from 30 yards against Crystal Palace in the Premier League which Chelsea won 4\u20131. Lampard continued his season strongly, and his brilliant performances for Chelsea in the Premier League and Champions League further increased his reputation as one of the best midfielders in the world. In the 2004\u201305 Champions League, he scored one of the goals in Chelsea's famous 4\u20132 win over Barcelona, helping Chelsea to progress to the quarter-finals. In the quarter-finals, he scored three goals in two legs against Bayern Munich as Chelsea won 6\u20135 on aggregate. His second goal in the first leg was a spectacular one; he controlled Claude Mak\u00e9l\u00e9l\u00e9's cross with his chest then turned and swivelled and sent the ball inside the far post with a left-foot half volley.\nIn April 2005, Lampard scored both goals against Bolton Wanderers in a 2\u20130 win which was the Premier League title-winning match for Chelsea, which also won the first major trophy of his career as Chelsea bagged their first top-flight title in 50 years, by a 12-point margin. He was named as Barclays Player of the Season for 2004\u201305. Though Chelsea were eliminated in the Champions League semi-finals by league rivals Liverpool, they took home the Football League Cup, in which Lampard scored twice in six matches, which included the opening goal against Manchester United in the League Cup semi-final, which Chelsea won 2\u20131. He landed his first personal award by being named the 2005 Footballer of the Year.\nLampard netted a career-high 16 league goals in 2005\u201306. In September 2005 he was selected as a member of the inaugural World XI. He finished as runner-up to Ronaldinho for both the Ballon d'Or and FIFA World Player of the Year awards. His record of consecutive Premier League appearances ended at 164 (five better than previous record-holder David James) on 28 December 2005, when he sat out a match against Manchester City due to illness. Lampard scored 12 goals in his first four months of the 2005\u201306 season. He scored twice in three separate matches from August to November, including both in a 2\u20131 win over Aston Villa, making Chelsea the first team to win their first seven matches in the Premier League. He scored twice again, this time against Blackburn Rovers in a 4\u20132 win, which included a free-kick from 25 yards. After the match, manager Jos\u00e9 Mourinho hailed Lampard as the \"best player in the world\". Chelsea eventually won the Premier League for the second time, in which Lampard was Chelsea's topscorer with 16 league goals. In the Champions League group stage, he scored a free-kick against Anderlecht. Chelsea progressed to the first knock-out round to face Barcelona, with Lampard scoring a goal in the second leg, but Chelsea were eliminated 3\u20132 on aggregate.\n2006\u201311: Domestic and individual success.\nDue to a back injury sustained by John Terry, Lampard spent much of the 2006\u201307 campaign as team captain in his absence. He enjoyed a streak of seven goals in eight games. He scored both goals in a 2\u20130 win over Fulham and scored his 77th goal for Chelsea from a long range strike in a 3\u20132 win over Everton on 17 December, overtaking Dennis Wise as Chelsea's highest scoring midfielder. Then in the UEFA Champions League group stage he scored a goal from an extremely tight angle against Barcelona, at the Camp Nou, the match ended 2\u20132. Lampard finished with 21 goals in all competitions, including a career-high six FA Cup goals. He scored his first Chelsea hat-trick in the third-round tie against Macclesfield Town on 6 January 2007. He scored two goals to help Chelsea to a quarter-final draw with Tottenham Hotspur after having trailed 3\u20131, and he was named the FA Cup player-of-the-round for his performance. He gave the assist to Didier Drogba in the 2007 FA Cup Final which was the winning goal in extra-time, as Chelsea won it 1\u20130. In a post-match interview following Chelsea's FA Cup Final victory over Manchester United, Lampard said he wanted to stay at the club \"forever\".\nLampard's 2007\u201308 season was hampered by injury. He managed to play 40 matches, 24 of them in the Premier League. This was the fewest league games he had played in a season since 1996\u201397. On 16 February 2008, Lampard became the eighth Chelsea player to score 100 goals for the club in a 3\u20131 FA Cup fifth-round win over Huddersfield Town. After the final whistle, Lampard removed his jersey and flashed a T-shirt to the Chelsea fans with \"100 Not Out, They Are All For You, Thanks\" printed across the front. On 12 March 2008, Lampard scored four goals in a 6\u20131 rout of Derby County. Then in the second leg of the Champions League quarter-final, he scored the winning goal against Fenerbah\u00e7e in the 87th minute as Chelsea won 3\u20132 on aggregate.\nOn 30 April, Lampard, grieving the loss of his mother a week earlier, decided to play in the second leg of Chelsea's Champions League semi-final against Liverpool, who were eliminated on 4\u20133 aggregate as he took an emotional penalty in the 98th minute of extra-time, which he scored confidently. In the final against Manchester United, he scored an equalising goal in the 45th minute, as Michael Essien's deflected shot found him as he went to the box with his trade-mark late run, and he scored with a left foot finish. The match ended 1\u20131 after extra-time and Chelsea eventually lost 6\u20135 on penalties. He was later named UEFA Club Midfielder of the Year.\nOn 13 August 2008, Lampard signed a new five-year contract with Chelsea worth \u00a339.2\u00a0million, making him the highest-paid Premier League player. He started the 2008\u201309 season by scoring five goals in his first eleven league matches. He scored the 150th goal of his club career with a goal against Manchester City in the Premier League. In October 2008, in the Premier League he scored a chipped goal against Hull City with his left foot; he unleashed a chip from 20 yards that curled and swerved and fooled the goalkeeper as it went into the net. FIFA World Cup-winning coach Luiz Felipe Scolari said after the game, \"It was the best goal I have seen, my vote for World Player of the year award will go to him, only a player with his intelligence could have done that.\" Lampard scored his hundredth career Premier League goal in a 5\u20130 victory over Sunderland on 2 November. Eighteen of Lampard's hundred goals were penalties. He was named Premier League Player of the Month for the third time in his career in October.\nAfter a streak of matches without scoring, Lampard scored three goals in two games, the first being against West Bromwich Albion and the latter two against Fulham. On 17 January 2009, he made his 400th Chelsea appearance against Stoke City, scoring a stoppage time winner. He again scored a stoppage time winner on 28 February, this time against Wigan Athletic. Then in the fourth round of the FA Cup, he scored a free-kick from 35 yards against Ipswich Town. He scored twice against Liverpool in the second-leg quarter finals of the Champions League which ended 4\u20134, but Chelsea won 7\u20135 on aggregate. Then he provided two assists in the next game against Arsenal in FA Cup semi-finals which Chelsea won 2\u20131. Lampard finished the season with 20 goals and 19 assists. Lampard's 20th goal of the season was the winning goal in the FA Cup Final against Everton, with a left-foot shot from long-range. He repeated the corner flag celebration his father had done after scoring the winning goal in the 1979\u201380 FA Cup semi-final second leg against Everton. It was the fourth consecutive season that he scored 20 or more goals. He was later named Chelsea's Player of the Year for the third time.\nLampard started the 2009\u201310 season by scoring against Manchester United, in the 2009 Community Shield, in the 72nd minute. The match ended 2\u20132, and Lampard scored in its penalty shootout which they won 4\u20131. He scored his 133rd goal for Chelsea in a Champions League match against Atl\u00e9tico Madrid on 21 October 2009, which moved him up to fifth among the club's all-time goalscorers. He had been struggling to score the number of goals he had in the past seasons, however this soon changed as he scored two goals in the 5\u20130 defeat of Blackburn on 24 October 2009. On 30 October, he was nominated for the FIFA World Player of the Year award for the sixth-straight year.\nOn 16 December, Lampard scored a crucial 79th minute winning goal against Portsmouth and on 20 December, Lampard scored a penalty against his former club West Ham in a 1\u20131 draw, however he had to take his spot-kick three times due to players running into the box too early, he nonetheless scored all three. In Chelsea's 7\u20132 thrashing of Sunderland in January 2010, Lampard scored twice to add to his league tally. On 27 January 2010, Lampard again scored two goals, in Chelsea's 3\u20130 win over Birmingham City in the Premier League. On 27 February, Lampard yet again scored twice against Manchester City but despite his contribution Chelsea went on to lose the game 4\u20132 at home, for the first time in 38 games.\nLampard, for the second time in his career, hit four goals in one match against Aston Villa on 27 March 2010 to bring his goal tally past 20, for the fifth-consecutive season. This also brought him his 151st Chelsea goal, and it put him as the club's third highest scorer ever, overtaking Peter Osgood's record of 150. Lampard scored in a 3\u20130 win, again over Aston Villa, in the 2010 FA Cup semi-final. Lampard reached 20 Premier League goals for the first time when he scored twice against Stoke City in Chelsea's 7\u20130 win on 25 April 2010. This milestone also represented the first time he had hit 25 in all competitions in a season. On 2 May, Lampard scored against Liverpool in the second last game of the season to give Chelsea a vital three points that took them to the top of the league by a single point. He scored one and assisted two other goals in the final match of the season where Chelsea thrashed Wigan Athletic 8\u20130 at Stamford Bridge to win the 2009\u201310 Premier League title and give him a remarkable 27 goals in the season. Lampard ended his season lifting the 2010 FA Cup as Chelsea beat Portsmouth 1\u20130 in the final.\nThe 2010\u201311 season began brightly for Lampard, being an integral part of Chelsea's system as usual. After a match against Stoke in August 2010, which Chelsea won 2\u20130, it was revealed that Lampard was suffering from a hernia, which was successfully operated on. However, he suffered fresh injuries during training in mid-November, and remained sidelined for a further three weeks. Manager Carlo Ancelotti said that he injured his abductor muscle in his leg in training on 11 November, and would not be fit until December. He finally made his comeback after four months out injured against Tottenham on 12 December, as a substitute in the 75th minute. Lampard scored a penalty in the 3\u20133 draw between Chelsea and Aston Villa on 2 January 2011, the first after returning from injury. On 9 January, Lampard scored twice and gave one assist in a 7\u20130 win against Ipswich Town in the FA Cup reaching the landmark of 201 career club goals.\nOn 1 February, Lampard scored a penalty against Sunderland, then produced an assist, with Chelsea ending up winning the game 4\u20132.\nLampard then assisted for Nicolas Anelka in Chelsea's 2\u20130 victory against Copenhagen, in the Round of 16 match in the Champions League. On 1 March, Lampard scored the winning goal in a crucial 2\u20131 victory over Manchester United, keeping Chelsea's Premier League title hopes alive. Then in the next game, he scored two goals in Chelsea's 3\u20131 victory over Blackpool, and also contributed with an assist for John Terry to score.\nIn April 2011, Lampard scored his 11th goal of the season in a 3\u20130 victory against former club West Ham. Lampard scored again against Manchester United, but it proved to be only a consolation, as Chelsea lost 2\u20131 at Old Trafford, thus ending Chelsea's title hopes.\n2011\u201313: European triumphs.\nIn Chelsea's third Premier League match of the season, Lampard scored his first goal of the season and also provided an assist for Jos\u00e9 Bosingwa's opening goal, as Chelsea beat Norwich City 3\u20131.\nAfter not featuring in Chelsea's 4\u20131 win against Swansea City on 24 September, Lampard returned to the starting line-up for their Champions League group stage game against Valencia netting an important opening goal in their 1\u20131 draw. Lampard continued his fine form by netting his fifth Chelsea hat-trick on 2 October, in a 5\u20131 thrashing of Bolton Wanderers.\nIn the eleventh round of the Premier League, Lampard scored the only goal of the match against Blackburn Rovers with a diving header, giving Chelsea a win after two consecutive defeats. After starting the game against Manchester City on the bench, Lampard came on in the second half to score the winning goal from the penalty spot in the 82nd minute. Lampard again proved to be the match-winner as he scored in the 89th minute against Wolverhampton Wanderers, with the match finishing 2\u20131 to Chelsea.\nOn 25 February 2012, Lampard scored his tenth Premier League goal of the season in Chelsea's 3\u20130 win against Bolton, becoming the only player to score at least ten goals in nine consecutive seasons in the Premier League and his 149th all-time league goal.\nEleven days after the dismissal of manager Andr\u00e9 Villas-Boas, Chelsea hosted Napoli in the 2011\u201312 Champions League round of 16-second leg, trailing the Naples side 3\u20131 from the first leg. Lampard helped Chelsea make a remarkable comeback, assisting John Terry from a corner for the second goal and then equalising the aggregate score from the penalty spot with a powerful shot to the left of the goal. Branislav Ivanovi\u0107 sealed Chelsea's victory in extra-time. In the second leg of the quarter-finals of the 2011\u201312 UEFA Champions League against Benfica, Lampard converted a crucial penalty to give Chelsea a 2\u20131 win at Stamford Bridge, and helping them advance with an aggregate score of 3\u20131. He scored the 150th Premier League goal of his career against Fulham in a 1\u20131 draw on 9 April 2012. In the semi-final of the FA Cup Chelsea defeated Tottenham Hotspur 5\u20131, in a match that would be remembered for an infamous \"goal that never was\" awarded to Chelsea's Juan Mata. Lampard assisted Didier Drogba for the first goal, and also scored the fourth goal for the Blues from a free-kick 35 yards from goal.\nLampard was pivotal in the semi-finals of the 2011\u201312 Champions League against the heavily favoured defending champions Barcelona. Bookmakers had Barcelona on the shortest odds to win a second consecutive Champions League title, and various commentators opined that Chelsea would have to produce their best two games of the season \u2013 and hope that Barca played their worst two \u2013 to upset the Catalan giants. In the first leg at Stamford Bridge, Lampard stripped Lionel Messi off the ball then played a cross-field pass to Ramires, who set up Drogba for the only goal of the game, giving Chelsea a 1\u20130 advantage. In the second leg at the Camp Nou, Lampard assumed the captaincy after Terry was sent off early in the game. Down 2\u20130 to Bar\u00e7a just before half-time, Lampard assisted Ramires' goal with a through-pass which levelled the aggregate score at 2\u20132 while putting Chelsea ahead on away goals. Chelsea teammate Fernando Torres added another goal in stoppage time to give Chelsea a 3\u20132 victory overall and produce one of the greatest upsets in the history of European football. This set up Chelsea's match with Bayern Munich at the Allianz Arena in the Champions League final.\nIn the 2012 FA Cup Final, Lampard assisted Didier Drogba's winning goal in 2\u20131 win over Liverpool, the seventh FA Cup in Chelsea's history as well as the fourth of his career. Lampard captained Chelsea in the 2012 Champions League final against Bayern Munich due to Terry's suspension. It was a match where Chelsea were considered to be the underdogs. After finishing 1\u20131 in normal time, the game went to a penalty shootout with Lampard successfully converting his team's third spot-kick, helping Chelsea win 4\u20133 on penalties. As Chelsea's captain for the match, Lampard lifted the trophy with club captain Terry. Lampard ended the 2011\u201312 season as Chelsea's top scorer with 16 goals in all competitions, along with 10 assists.\nLampard missed Euro 2012 with a thigh injury, but did play all of Chelsea's pre-season games, scoring against the MLS All-Stars and Brighton &amp; Hove Albion. In Chelsea's first game of the new Premier League campaign, Lampard converted a penalty won by Eden Hazard as Chelsea brushed aside Wigan 2\u20130. In Chelsea's second game of the season, three days later against newly promoted Reading, he again converted a penalty won by Hazard as Chelsea cruised to a 4\u20132 win. On 6 October, he scored his third league goal of the season in a 4\u20131 win against Norwich City. After six weeks out injured, on 16 December Lampard appeared in the final of the 2012 FIFA Club World Cup with Chelsea losing 1\u20130 to Brazilian club Corinthians. He marked his 500th appearance in the Premier League by scoring in an 8\u20130 win against Aston Villa on 23 December. On 30 December 2012, Lampard scored a brace as Chelsea came from a goal down in the game against Everton to win 2\u20131.\nIn the third round of the FA Cup, Lampard entered in the second half and scored a penalty in Chelsea's victory over Southampton. On 6 January 2013, Lampard's agent Steve Kutner announced that Lampard would not be offered a new contract with Chelsea and would leave when his contract expired in June 2013. On 12 January 2013, Lampard scored a penalty in the 4\u20130 win over Stoke City at the Britannia Stadium. This goal made Lampard Chelsea's second-highest goalscorer of all-time with 194 goals and moved him clear of Kerry Dixon and putting him eight goals behind Bobby Tambling in first. He scored his 199th goal for Chelsea in a 4\u20130 FA Cup victory over Brentford on 17 February, becoming Chelsea's all-time leading FA Cup goalscorer with 26 goals. Lampard's 200th Chelsea goal came against his former club West Ham on 17 March 2013, heading home an Eden Hazard cross.\nLampard equalled Bobby Tambling's record with a long-range goal into the top left corner from just outside the box in the 61st minute in a league match against Aston Villa on 11 May. Then, later on in the 88th minute, he scored a second goal, breaking the record and securing a 2\u20131 victory for Chelsea. In the UEFA Europa League final on 15 May, Lampard captained the London club to a 2\u20131 victory over Benfica, securing the 11th major trophy of the Roman Abramovich era.\nOn 16 May 2013, Lampard signed a one-year extension to his contract with Chelsea, stating \"I always maintained the dream was to stay at Chelsea.\"\n2013\u201314: Final season at Chelsea.\nOn the opening day of the 2013\u201314 Premier League season, Lampard scored a free-kick in a 2\u20130 win against newly promoted Hull City. On 1 October, he scored his 205th goal for Chelsea in a 4\u20130 win away to Steaua Bucure\u0219ti in the Champions League. On 23 November 2013, Lampard scored his 206th and 207th goals for Chelsea against his former club West Ham in a 3\u20130 win. Lampard moved to fourth on the all-time Premier League goal-scoring list on 2 December by beating Robbie Fowler's number of 164 goals. On 22 February 2014, Lampard scored a stoppage-time winner against Everton, initially credited to John Terry but awarded to Lampard by the Dubious Goals Committee, keeping Chelsea in first place.\nIn March, in recognition of his contributions, Lampard was given share number 200 by the Chelsea Pitch Owners Association which owns the Stamford Bridge freehold. On 2 April, he played his 100th Champions League match, losing 3\u20131 to Paris Saint-Germain. On 5 April 2014, Lampard scored the 250th goal of his club career in a 3\u20130 win against Stoke.\nOn 23 May 2014, Lampard was included on the list of players released by Chelsea. Lampard, however, said that any contract talks with Chelsea would be decided after the 2014 World Cup, with a statement saying \"he will meet with Chelsea before any consideration of a move elsewhere\". On 3 June 2014, Chelsea confirmed Lampard would leave the club.\nManchester City.\nSigning and New York City FC controversy.\nOn 24 July 2014, it was claimed that Lampard, as a free agent, had signed a two-year contract with New York City FC (NYCFC) to commence ahead of the 2015 MLS season. It was announced at a live press conference in Brooklyn that he would be joining the club, which would be entering Major League Soccer (MLS) for the 2015 season. Sporting director Claudio Reyna hailed him as \"one of the greatest players in world history\". NYCFC's parent club, Manchester City, announced on 3 August 2014 that Lampard would join the club on a six-month deal ending in January 2015. Initially reported as a loan, reports emerged on 31 December 2014 that Lampard had signed a short-term contract with the club as a free agent with his MLS contract not to start until the end of his stay in Manchester. The same day, it was announced Lampard would extend his contract with Manchester City until the end of the English season, missing the start of the 2015 MLS season and it was confirmed that Lampard had never been an MLS player with his arrival date in MLS unclear.\nLampard extending his stay in Manchester prompted an angry response from fans in New York, with NYCFC being accused of dishonesty for using the player in their promotional material and MLS Commissioner Don Garber being accused of poor leadership and a lack of transparency in handling the affair. On 1 January 2015, Manchester City head coach Manuel Pellegrini hinted that Lampard could extend his stay at Manchester City to a second season. On 9 January, Manchester City admitted that Lampard had never signed a two-year contract with NYCFC, having instead originally signed a non-binding \"commitment\" to join the team. The same day, Lampard confirmed his intention to join NYCFC at the end of the 2014\u201315 Premier League season. Around 300 people asked for season ticket refunds in response to the affair, while the 2015 MLS SuperDraft started a chant of \"Where's Frank Lampard?\" from the crowd.\n2014\u201315: Only season in Manchester.\nLampard made his Manchester City debut on 13 September in a 2\u20132 away draw against Arsenal; he received a yellow card and was substituted at half-time for Samir Nasri. He scored his first goal for the club on 21 September with a volley from inside the box against former club Chelsea, having only been on the field for seven minutes as a substitute. Lampard's equalising goal ended Chelsea's perfect winning streak in the season, but it was a goal which he did not celebrate, and he described it as a very emotional day. In Lampard's first League Cup match for City three days later, he scored the first and last goals as the side defeated Sheffield Wednesday 7\u20130 at home in the third round. On 27 September, Lampard came on in the 71st minute, only to score another goal to make it four goals in four matches and his fourth that week. He made his first Champions League appearance on 30 September in Manchester City's 1\u20131 draw with Roma.\nOn 1 January 2015, the day after extending his stay with the club, Lampard scored the winner for City in a Premier League encounter against Sunderland. On 14 March 2015, Lampard made his 600th Premier League appearance, becoming the second player to do so after Ryan Giggs, coming on as a substitute during City's 1\u20130 defeat to Burnley. On 24 May, Lampard captained Manchester City in their final match of the season and the last of his spell with the club. He scored his 177th Premier League goal to give City the lead in an eventual 2\u20130 win over Southampton at the City of Manchester Stadium and was substituted for Jes\u00fas Navas in the 77th minute.\nNew York City FC.\n2015\u201316: Final seasons and retirement.\nOn 10 January 2015, Lampard signed a pre-contract to play for New York City FC in MLS, beginning on 1 July. Injury delayed his debut until 1 August, when he came on as a 69th-minute substitute for Andrew Jacobson in a 3\u20132 defeat to the Montreal Impact at Yankee Stadium. In July, Lampard was one of the 22 players to be named to the 2015 MLS All-Star Game roster. On 16 September, he scored his first MLS goal as his team beat Toronto 2\u20130 to end a three-game losing streak. Eleven days later, Lampard scored the opening goal in a 2\u20131 victory over Vancouver Whitecaps FC in the 29th minute of play; he was later also fouled in the area in the final minute of stoppage time, which allowed David Villa to convert the match-winning goal from the resulting penalty. On 2 October, he scored New York City's fastest ever goal in MLS history in a 2\u20131 away defeat to D.C. United. The team finished its debut season outside a place for the MLS Cup Playoffs, which drew criticism from some in the media, who expected more from the club's trio of designated players composed of former Champions League winners Lampard, David Villa, and Andrea Pirlo.\nHaving missed the beginning of the season with a calf injury, Lampard made his first appearance in 2016 on 22 May in the New York derby, playing the final 15 minutes; New York City lost the game 7\u20130, while Lampard was jeered by his side's own fans. However, he then scored in his first start of the season against Philadelphia Union on 18 June and was cheered by the New York fans once again. In his second start, he managed to make it back-to-back goals against Seattle Sounders FC on 20 June. His fourth goal in five matches came against Sporting Kansas City in a 3\u20131 defeat on 11 July. Lampard then took his goal tally for the season to five with the third goal in a 3\u20131 victory over the Montreal Impact on 17 July.\nOn 31 July 2016, Lampard became the first New York City player to score a hat-trick, achieving this feat in a 5\u20131 win over the Colorado Rapids. Lampard finished his second MLS season with the club with 13 goals and 3 assists in 19 appearances, as New York City finished in second place in the Eastern Conference, and qualified for the MLS Cup Playoffs for the first time ever, clinching a spot in the Eastern Conference semi-finals. He featured in both legs of the Conference semi-final against Toronto, as New York were eliminated from the Playoffs 7\u20130 on aggregate. On 14 November 2016, New York City announced that Lampard would leave as soon as his contract expired.\nLampard announced his retirement on 2 February 2017 after turning down several offers, and said that he would look to obtain his coaching qualifications after retiring.\nInternational career.\nYouth and early career.\nLampard was capped by England at youth level before making his under-21 debut on 13 November 1997 in a match against Greece. He played for the under-21 side from November 1997 to June 2000, and scored nine goals in 19 appearances, a mark bettered only by Alan Shearer and Francis Jeffers. He was capped once by England B, playing in a 2\u20131 home defeat against Chile on 10 February 1998.\nOn 10 October 1999, Lampard debuted for the England senior squad in a 2\u20131 friendly win over Belgium. He scored his first goal on 20 August 2003 in a 3\u20131 win over Croatia. He was part of the team at the FA Summer Tournament (Manchester) 2004, which England won.\nHe was overlooked for Euro 2000 and the 2002 World Cup, and had to wait until Euro 2004 to take part in his first international competition. England reached the quarter-finals with Lampard scoring three goals in four matches. He scored against France and Croatia in the group stages. In the quarter-final, he equalised for England in the 112th minute against Portugal, bringing the scoreline to 2\u20132 but England lost on penalties. He was named in the team of the tournament by UEFA.\n2004\u201310: UEFA Euro 2004 and 2006 FIFA World Cup.\nHe became a regular in the squad following the retirement of Paul Scholes, and was voted England Player of the Year by fans in 2004 and 2005. He was England's top-scorer in their 2006 World Cup qualifying campaign, with five goals. He scored two crucial goals in the qualifiers, the first against Austria in a 1\u20130 win, and the second being the winning goal against Poland.\nIn England's first game of the tournament against Paraguay, Lampard was named man of the match as England won 1\u20130. Though Lampard played every minute of England's 2006 World Cup matches, he went scoreless as England were eliminated in the quarterfinals by Portugal on penalties, and he was one of the three England players whose penalty was saved alongside Steven Gerrard and Jamie Carragher.\nHe scored in a 2\u20131 loss to Germany in a friendly at the new Wembley in 2007. He was very disappointing during qualifying for Euro 2008. He was booed by England supporters while coming on as a second-half substitute during England's Euro 2008 qualifying match against Estonia on 13 October 2007. Lampard sent Stipe Pletikosa the wrong way from the spot and finished with one goal (in a 3\u20132 loss to Croatia on 21 November) as England failed to qualify for the tournament. He scored his first international goal in two years in a 4\u20130 win over Slovakia in March 2009, and also created another for Wayne Rooney. Lampard's goal was the 500th England goal scored at Wembley. On 9 September 2009, Lampard struck twice in England's 5\u20131 win against Croatia which secured their place at 2010 World Cup.\n2010\u201312: 2010 FIFA World Cup and UEFA Euro 2012 injury.\nIn the round-of-16 match of the 2010 FIFA World Cup against rivals Germany, Lampard had a first-half shot at goal that bounced off the crossbar and from TV replays was clearly seen to cross the goal line. If counted, it would have tied the game 2\u20132. However, neither the referee nor the linesman saw it as a goal, and play was continued. In the second-half, Lampard hit the cross-bar again, with a 30-yard free-kick. The final score was a 4\u20131 win for Germany, eliminating England from the tournament.\nAs England exited the 2010 FIFA World Cup, Lampard had already achieved the record of having made 37 shots on goal without scoring in a World Cup tournament, more than any other player since 1966.\nOn 8 February 2011, it was announced that Lampard would captain the national team against Denmark in a friendly played the next day after both Rio Ferdinand and Steven Gerrard were absent through injury. In the Euro 2012 qualifiers, Lampard netted two goals for England, both penalties. The first against Wales in a 2\u20130 win, and the latter vs Switzerland in a 2\u20132 draw. In November 2011, Lampard captained England to a 1\u20130 friendly victory over current World Champions Spain, a game in which he scored the only goal.\nOn 31 May 2012, he was ruled out of the Euro 2012 due to a thigh injury. He was subsequently replaced by Jordan Henderson.\n2012\u201314: Final years with England.\nOn 14 August 2012, manager Roy Hodgson announced that Lampard would captain the Three Lions in their upcoming friendly against Italy the following day, which England won 2\u20131. Lampard started England's first game in qualification and starred as England thrashed Moldova 5\u20130, with Lampard scoring his 24th and 25th England goals. His first goal was England's 100th ever penalty and his second was a header from a cross from Glen Johnson, after Steven Gerrard was substituted he captained the side. On 22 March 2013, he surpassed David Platt as England's highest scoring midfielder when he scored his 28th international goal in a 0\u20138 win over San Marino. Lampard became only the eighth English player to earn his 100th England cap, doing so in a World Cup qualifier against Ukraine, on 10 September 2013.\nOn 12 May 2014, Lampard was named in the 23-man England squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup and a week later he was named vice-captain. On 24 June, for the last game of the group stage, Lampard captained his England side to draw with Costa Rica 0\u20130. On 26 August 2014, Lampard announced that he had retired from international football. He earned 106 caps, scoring 29 goals.\nStyle of play.\nRegarded by some pundits, managers, and teammates as one of the greatest players of his generation, Lampard was an all-round and versatile box-to-box player, who was capable of playing anywhere in midfield; throughout his career he was deployed as a central midfielder, as an attacking midfielder, as a defensive midfielder, and even as a supporting striker on occasion. He was also deployed as a deep-lying playmaker on occasion, in particular in his later career, due to his ability to build attacks with his passing.\nA hard-working player, with notable stamina and an ability to read the game, Lampard was also capable of functioning creatively and starting attacking plays or providing assists for teammates after winning back possession, due to his technique, vision, and passing range. In addition to his creative and defensive midfield duties, Lampard also possessed a keen eye for goal, due to his ability to get forward and make late attacking runs from behind into the penalty area, or produce accurate and powerful shots from distance. These attributes enabled him to maintain a prolific goalscoring record throughout his career, despite his deep playing position. Moreover, Lampard was also an accurate set-piece and penalty kick taker, who was known for scoring with powerful, low driving shots from free kicks.\nBeyond his qualities as a footballer, he also stood out for his leadership throughout his career. In 2017, Gareth Southgate labelled Lampard as one of the group of England's past players who were \"very good\", but below the likes of the nation's past \"top players\", such as Gascoigne, Scholes, and Rooney, commenting: \"You've got very good players and then there are top players. In my time in the England setup, Paul Gascoigne, Paul Scholes and Rooney just had that little bit more than all the others. And we are talking high\u2011level people there, players like Steven Gerrard, Frank Lampard and David Beckham.\"\nManagerial career.\nDerby County.\nOn 31 May 2018, Lampard was appointed as manager of Championship club Derby County on a three-year contract. His first game in charge, on 3 August, resulted in a 2\u20131 away win for Derby at Reading, with Tom Lawrence scoring a last-minute winner. His first loss as a manager came on 11 August in a 4\u20131 loss against Leeds United, in his second match in charge. On 25 September, in just his 12th game as a manager, Lampard's Derby County knocked Premier League club Manchester United out of the EFL Cup on penalties, following a 2\u20132 draw at Old Trafford.\nAfter a 2\u20130 defeat in the return fixture against Leeds United at Elland Road on 11 January 2019 to further Leeds' lead at the top of the Championship table, Lampard was critical of Leeds head coach Marcelo Bielsa, as in the pre-match build-up Bielsa admitted he had sent a spy to the Derby training ground, after reports emerged in the press that a man was spotted the previous day outside the Derby training ground. On 12 January, Leeds United released a statement in response to the incident. Tottenham Hotspur manager Mauricio Pochettino described the incident as 'not a big deal' and commonplace in Argentina.\nIn his first season in charge of Derby, Lampard guided the club to the Championship play-offs after helping them finish 6th in the 2018\u201319 Championship season. In the semi-finals of the play-offs, Derby overturned a 0\u20131 home loss to win 4\u20132 away against Leeds United and claim the tie 4\u20133 on aggregate, setting up an appearance against Aston Villa in the final. Derby lost the play-off final to Aston Villa 2\u20131.\nUpon the conclusion of the season, Lampard was heavily linked with the vacant managerial spot at former club Chelsea. On 25 June 2019, Derby granted Lampard permission to hold talks with the Chelsea bosses over said position.\nChelsea.\nOn 4 July 2019, Lampard was appointed as the new head coach at former club Chelsea on a three-year contract, making him the first English manager to manage the side in over two decades. In Lampard's first competitive game with Chelsea, the club lost 4\u20130 to Manchester United on the opening day of the 2019\u201320 Premier League. It was the biggest defeat for a Chelsea manager in their first game since Danny Blanchflower's team was beaten 7\u20132 by Middlesbrough in December 1978. In Lampard's second competitive game, they lost to Liverpool on penalties in the 2019 UEFA Super Cup.\nOn 24 August 2019, Lampard obtained his first Premier League victory as Chelsea manager, beating Norwich City 2\u20133 away from home. On 25 September, Chelsea picked up their first home win under Lampard, beating League Two side Grimsby Town 7\u20131 in the EFL Cup. Lampard's matchday squad against Grimsby featured ten academy graduates, including Reece James and Billy Gilmour, making their first-team debuts. Lampard won Premier League Manager of the Month for October 2019 after Chelsea recorded a perfect record in the league for the month. By doing so, he became the third manager to win Premier League Player of the Month and Manager of the Month, after Gareth Southgate and Stuart Pearce. Lampard eventually guided Chelsea to fourth in the Premier League and the FA Cup Final, where they lost to Arsenal.\nIn the following season, Chelsea made five major acquisitions in the summer transfer window in Hakim Ziyech, Timo Werner, Ben Chilwell, Kai Havertz and \u00c9douard Mendy. Chelsea initially started strongly, topping their Champions League group and the Premier League in early December. However, after a run of two wins in eight Premier League matches, Chelsea dropped to ninth and Lampard was dismissed as manager on 25 January 2021. He remained on Chelsea's payroll to see out his contract, \"pocketing \u00a375,000\" per week in compensation. His dismissal came just 24 hours after Chelsea's 3\u20131 win over Luton Town in the FA Cup. On 26 January, German coach Thomas Tuchel was announced as his replacement.\nIt was reported Lampard's departure was also influenced by disagreements with the club's transfer policy; Lampard is said to have requested the acquisitions of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, Declan Rice, and James Tarkowski, with these moves being blocked by Chelsea's co-director Marina Granovskaia. Lampard also reportedly fell out with or had limited communication with some players, causing former teammate and club advisor Petr \u010cech to have to serve as an intermediary.\nEverton.\nHaving been out of work for a year, Lampard was appointed manager of Premier League club Everton on 31 January 2022, after the dismissal of Rafael Ben\u00edtez due to poor results. At the time of his appointment, the club was positioned in 16th place, four points above the relegation zone. With one game remaining in the 2021\u201322 season, on 19 May Lampard guided Everton to Premier League safety maintaining their 68-year top flight status. Having been 2\u20130 down at half-time to Crystal Palace Lampard brought on Dele Alli and played a more attacking formation resulting in a 3\u20132 win for the Merseyside team. Lampard described the night as \"one of the greatest nights of my career\".\nThe following season saw the club once again fall into a relegation battle, with a run of only 1 win in 11 matches leaving the club 19th in the league by January. Everton owner Farhad Moshiri in an interview with Talksport suggested that Lampard's position at the club remained secure despite this run of form. However, Lampard was sacked a few days later on 23 January 2023, just eight days less than a year into the job, after a 2\u20130 loss to West Ham. Lampard was replaced by Sean Dyche on 30 January 2023.\nReturn to Chelsea.\nOn 6 April 2023, Lampard returned to Chelsea by being appointed as caretaker manager until the end of the 2022\u201323 season, following the dismissal of Graham Potter. Chelsea's form dropped after Lampard took over and produced a first bottom-half finish since 1996 and a record low tally of points and goals scored in the Premier League era. In terms of winning percentage, Lampard also had the worst record (9%) among every Chelsea manager who had led 3 or more matches, achieving just one win in his 11 matches in charge.\nCoventry City.\nOn 28 November 2024, Lampard was appointed as the new manager of EFL Championship club Coventry City. He took the club to 5th in the Championship, however lost 3\u20132 on aggregate to Sunderland in the semi-finals of the play-offs.\nDespite having suffered heartbreak at the end of the previous season, Lampard led Coventry City to the top of the league in the early stages of the 2025\u201326 season, being named EFL Championship Manager of the Month for October 2025. Continued good form saw him win the award for a second consecutive month after a 100% record over five matches, scoring fourteen goals.\nOn 20 December 2025, after a 1\u20131 draw at Southampton, Lampard was instrumental in starting a melee involving players and staff from both teams after making provocative gestures at home supporters. His behaviour was criticised by a Regulatory Commission, whose report said: \u201cIt [the Commission] considered the behaviour of FL, both in goading the fans and in interacting with THB (Taylor Harwood-Bellis) to have been unacceptable and the catalyst for what followed \u2026\u201d.\nMedia.\nFrom 2015 until 2017, Lampard served as a team captain on the ITV comedy panel show \"Play to the Whistle\" alongside Bradley Walsh. He was a regular pundit for football on BT Sport. For the 2018 World Cup, Lampard was among the BBC's list of pundits as he insisted that it would not affect his managerial duties.\nLampard features in EA Sports' \"FIFA\" video game series; he was on the cover for the International edition of \"FIFA 10\", alongside Wayne Rooney and Theo Walcott. In 2018, Lampard was added as an icon to the Ultimate Team in \"FIFA 19\".\nOn Sunday 9 June 2024, Lampard led England to a 6\u20133 victory as manager in the annual Soccer Aid game against the rest of the world. The match raised \u00a315 million for charity.\nPersonal life.\nLampard was born in Romford, London; he has two sisters, Natalie and Claire. He attended Brentwood School between 1989 and 1994, finishing with eleven GCSEs, including an A* in Latin.\nLampard belongs to a family of footballers; his father is Frank Lampard, Sr., the former West Ham United player and assistant manager who was still associated with the club when Lampard junior was playing for them. Lampard's uncle is Harry Redknapp and his cousin is Redknapp's son Jamie Redknapp. His mother Pat, a librarian, died in April 2008 aged 58 as a result of pneumonia.\nLampard is a Christian, and credits his faith for helping him cope with the death of his mother.\nLampard is a supporter of the Conservative Party and was rumoured to be running as a candidate for Kensington upon Malcolm Rifkind's retirement at the 2015 general election. He subsequently denied that he was running to be an MP.\nHe was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2015 Birthday Honours. Lampard published his autobiography, \"Totally Frank\", in 2006. He has written a series of children's novels, inspired by his mother and children, related to football.\nLampard formerly owned The Pig's Ear, Chelsea's oldest pub, with his father. They sold the business in 2018, and his father then took over the Grade II Nightingale pub in Wanstead in 2019. Lampard has retained the ownership of the freehold at the Old Church Street, Chelsea property.\nLampard has had a troubled relationship with his boyhood club West Ham United where he was seen by some fans as a product of nepotism. He claims that he often received negative taunts about his weight, and that during a match as an 18-year-old when he broke his leg in play, he heard cheers from fans. Following his transfer to Chelsea, Lampard turned against his former club and has since stated: \"I remember when Joe Cole first came to Chelsea he would turn away in disappointment if West Ham lost. I would smile. That's how deeply I felt. I wanted West Ham to lose. Now I don't even look for their results.\" Later in his career, Lampard adopted a more mature attitude towards his former club saying that he had complete respect for the club and thanking Harry Redknapp and Tony Carr for the influence at the start of his career.\nControversies.\nIn 2000, Lampard, Rio Ferdinand and Kieron Dyer appeared on a sex video that was filmed at the holiday resort of Ayia Napa in Cyprus. Channel 4 aired a brief edited clip as part of their 2004 documentary \"Sex, Footballers and Videotape\", claiming it was used to \"remind the viewer that this is based on real life\". On 23 September 2001, Lampard, along with three other Chelsea players, was fined two weeks' wages by the club for his behaviour whilst on a drinking binge on 12 September. Lampard and the others had abused American tourists at a Heathrow hotel, just 24 hours after the September 11 attacks. A hotel manager stated: \"they were utterly disgusting. They just didn't seem to care about what had happened\". Lampard apologised over his behaviour when he signed for NYCFC in 2014, implying that he did not mean offence and that he was naive and young.\nIn 2021, Lampard was charged with using a mobile phone while driving after being filmed by CyclingMikey holding a takeaway cup in one hand and a mobile phone in the other. Lampard hired Nick Freeman to defend him. The case was later dropped as the Crown Prosecution Service stated it had insufficient evidence.\nRelationships.\nLampard lives in Surrey and London. He has two daughters with his former fianc\u00e9e, Spanish model Elen Rivas.\nOn 24 April 2009, Lampard was involved in a radio confrontation with James O'Brien on the London radio station LBC 97.3. Newspapers had reported that following Lampard's split from Rivas their children were living with her in a small flat while Lampard had converted their family home into a bachelor pad. Lampard phoned in, objecting to criticism and stating that he had fought \"tooth and nail\" to keep his family together.\nLampard married Christine Bleakley, a Northern Irish broadcaster, on 20 December 2015. They have a daughter born in 2018 and a son born in 2021.\nHonours.\nPlayer.\nWest Ham United\nChelsea\nIndividual\nManager.\nChelsea\nIndividual"}
{"id": "708836", "revid": "1293279078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708836", "title": "Bailey Ashford", "text": "Colonel Bailey Kelly Ashford (September 18, 1873 \u2013 November 1, 1934) was an American physician who had a military career in the United States Army, and afterward taught full-time at the School of Tropical Medicine in Puerto Rico, which he helped establish in San Juan.\nA pioneering physician in the treatment of anemia, Ashford organized and conducted a parasite treatment campaign against hookworm while stationed in Puerto Rico. This cured approximately 300,000 persons (one-third of the Puerto Rico population) and reduced the death rate from associated anemia by 90 percent. He was a founding member of the Puerto Rico Anemia Commission.\nEarly years.\nAshford was born in Washington, D.C., on September 18, 1873, as one of five children in the family of Francis Ashford, a prominent physician, and his wife. His general education was obtained at the public schools and at Columbian University in Washington, D.C. (now George Washington University). In 1896, he graduated from the Georgetown University School of Medicine. He served as a resident physician in several area hospitals.\nCommissioned lieutenant in the United States Army Medical Corps in November 1897, Ashford accompanied the military expedition to Puerto Rico in 1898 during the Spanish\u2013American War.\nPersonal life.\nAshford made Puerto Rico his adopted home, marrying a local woman, Mar\u00eda L\u00f3pez Nussa. They had three children: Mahlon, Margarita, and Gloria Mar\u00eda.\nProfessional life.\nHookworm treatment.\nServing as the medical officer in the general military hospital in Ponce, Puerto Rico, in 1899 he was the first to describe and successfully treat North American hookworm. He was a tireless clinician and conducted an exhaustive study of the anemia caused by hookworm infestation, which was the leading cause of death and responsible for as many as 12,000 deaths a year. From 1903 to 1904, together with his colleague Pedro Guti\u00e9rrez Igarav\u00eddez, he organized and conducted a parasite treatment and education campaign, which treated approximately 300,000 persons (one-third of the Puerto Rico population). This work reduced the death rate from this anemia by 90 percent. Through Ashford's professor, Charles Wardell Stiles, his work also led to the creation of a seminal campaign to fight hookworm in the American South that was funded by John D. Rockefeller.\nAnemia treatment.\nCaptain Ashford was a founding member of the Puerto Rico Anemia Commission. By special authority of the Secretary of War, he served on the Commission from 1904 to 1906.\nSchool of Tropical Medicine.\nIn 1911, his proposal for an Institute of Tropical Medicine (Later renamed School of Tropical Medicine) in Puerto Rico was approved by Antonio R. Barcel\u00f3, the president of the Puerto Rican Senate. He pushed for passage of the legislation to authorize the school, and Governor Horace Mann Towner and his cabinet proceeded to create it. After serving as a commander of the Army Medical Department's First Division during World War I, Colonel Ashford was assigned to San Juan. He campaigned for the development of \"a real school of tropical medicine in the American tropics\".\nAshford was promoted to lieutenant colonel in July 1916 and colonel in May 1917. During World War I, he left Puerto Rico to serve as director of the U.S. Army Sanitary School in Langres, France.\nThe School of Tropical Medicine of Puerto Rico was formally dedicated in 1925.\nAshford retired from active duty on February 10, 1928. After a 30-year Army career as a military doctor, he assumed a full-time faculty position at the School, where he continued his interest in tropical medicine. Together with doctors Isaac Gonz\u00e1lez Mart\u00ednez and Ram\u00f3n M. Su\u00e1rez Calderon, he continued to carry out experiments related to anemia. The University of Puerto Rico campus at Rio Piedras, the building of the Institute of Tropical Medicine (see drawings) in Puerta de Tierra, San Juan, is one of the few examples of the Neo-Plateresque architectural style in the Island.\nLegacy and honors.\nIn his honor, the main avenue in the San Juan, Puerto Rico district of Condado, bears his name as does the Ashford Presbyterian Community Hospital as well as the Ashford Medical Center, also in Condado. Built in 1912 on Ashford Avenue, his home is preserved as a museum known as the \"Casa de Cultura Dr. Bailey K. Ashford\" (Dr. Bailey K. Ashford Culture House).\nIn 1911, Ashford was conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of Science by Georgetown University. In 1915, he was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine by Georgetown University professors George M. Kober and Francis A. Tondorf. In 1925, Ashford was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal for his World War I service.\nIn 1941, The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene established the \"Bailey K. Ashford Medal\". This is awarded for distinguished work in tropical medicine to a worker in his or her early or mid-career. The first person to receive the award was Lloyd E. Rozeboom. The medal is awarded every year, and more than one award may be given.\nAshford died on November 1, 1934, in his home in San Juan. Originally buried at the Fort Brooke Military Cemetery, his remains were re-interred at Puerto Rico National Cemetery in the city of Bayam\u00f3n on April 20, 1954."}
{"id": "708837", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708837", "title": "Sklyarov", "text": "Sklyarov () is a surname of Russian origin. \nPeople with this name include:"}
{"id": "708839", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708839", "title": "Loschmidt's paradox", "text": "In physics, Loschmidt's paradox (named for Josef Loschmidt), also known as the reversibility paradox, irreversibility paradox, or (), is the objection that it should not be possible to deduce an irreversible process from time-symmetric dynamics. This puts the time reversal symmetry of (almost) all known low-level fundamental physical processes at odds with any attempt to infer from them the second law of thermodynamics, which describes the behaviour of macroscopic systems. Both of these are well-accepted principles in physics, with sound observational and theoretical support, yet they seem to be in conflict, hence the paradox.\nOrigin.\nJosef Loschmidt's criticism was provoked by the H-theorem of Boltzmann, which employed kinetic theory to explain the increase of entropy in an ideal gas from a non-equilibrium state, when the molecules of the gas are allowed to collide. In 1876, Loschmidt pointed out that if there is a motion of a system from time \"t\"0 to time \"t\"1 to time \"t\"2 that leads to a steady decrease of \"H\" (increase of entropy) with time, then there is another allowed state of motion of the system at \"t\"1, found by reversing all the velocities, in which \"H\" must increase. This revealed that one of Boltzmann's key assumptions, molecular chaos, or, the \"Stosszahlansatz\", that all particle velocities were completely uncorrelated, did not follow from Newtonian dynamics. One can assert that possible correlations are uninteresting, and therefore decide to ignore them; but if one does so, one has changed the conceptual system, injecting an element of time-asymmetry by that very action.\nReversible laws of motion cannot explain why we experience our world to be in such a comparatively low state of entropy at the moment (compared to the equilibrium entropy of universal heat death); and to have been at even lower entropy in the past.\nLater authors coined the term \"Loschmitz's demon\" (in analogy to Maxwell's demon, see below) for an entity that is able to reverse time evolution in a microscopic system, in their case of nuclear spins, which is indeed, if only for a short time, experimentally possible.\nBefore Loschmidt.\nIn 1874, two years before the Loschmidt paper, William Thomson defended the second law against the time reversal objection in his paper \"The kinetic theory of the dissipation of energy\".\nArrow of time.\nAny process that happens regularly in the forward direction of time but rarely or never in the opposite direction, such as entropy increasing in an isolated system, defines what physicists call an arrow of time in nature. This term only refers to an observation of an asymmetry in time; it is not meant to suggest an explanation for such asymmetries. Loschmidt's paradox is equivalent to the question of how it is possible that there could be a thermodynamic arrow of time given time-symmetric fundamental laws, since time-symmetry implies that for any process compatible with these fundamental laws, a reversed version that looked exactly like a film of the first process played backwards would be equally compatible with the same fundamental laws, and would even be equally probable if one were to pick the system's initial state randomly from the phase space of all possible states for that system.\nAlthough most of the arrows of time described by physicists are thought to be special cases of the thermodynamic arrow, there are a few that are believed to be unconnected, like the cosmological arrow of time based on the fact that the universe is expanding rather than contracting, and the fact that a few processes in particle physics actually violate T-symmetry, while they respect a related symmetry known as CPT symmetry. In the case of the cosmological arrow, most physicists believe that entropy would continue to increase even if the universe began to contract (although the physicist Thomas Gold once proposed a model in which the thermodynamic arrow would reverse in this phase). In the case of the violations of time-symmetry in particle physics, the situations in which they occur are rare and are only known to involve a few types of meson particles. Furthermore, due to CPT symmetry, reversal of the direction of time is equivalent to renaming particles as antiparticles and \"vice versa\". Therefore, this cannot explain Loschmidt's paradox.\nDynamical systems.\nCurrent research in dynamical systems offers one possible mechanism for obtaining irreversibility from reversible systems. The central argument is based on the claim that the correct way to study the dynamics of macroscopic systems is to study the transfer operator corresponding to the microscopic equations of motion. It is then argued that the transfer operator is not unitary (\"i.e.\" is not reversible) but has eigenvalues whose magnitude is strictly less than one; these eigenvalues corresponding to decaying physical states. This approach is fraught with various difficulties; it works well for only a handful of exactly solvable models.\nAbstract mathematical tools used in the study of dissipative systems include definitions of mixing, wandering sets, and ergodic theory in general.\nFluctuation theorem.\nOne approach to handling Loschmidt's paradox is the fluctuation theorem, derived heuristically by Denis Evans and Debra Searles, which gives a numerical estimate of the probability that a system away from equilibrium will have a certain value for the dissipation function (often an entropy like property) over a certain amount of time. The result is obtained with the exact time reversible dynamical equations of motion and the universal causation proposition. The fluctuation theorem is obtained using the fact that dynamics is time reversible. Quantitative predictions of this theorem have been confirmed in laboratory experiments at the Australian National University conducted by Edith M. Sevick et al. using optical tweezers apparatus. This theorem is applicable for transient systems, which may initially be in equilibrium and then driven away (as was the case for the first experiment by Sevick et al.) or in some other arbitrary initial state, including relaxation towards equilibrium. There is also an asymptotic result for systems which are in a nonequilibrium steady state at all times.\nThere is a crucial point in the fluctuation theorem, that differs from how Loschmidt framed the paradox. Loschmidt considered the probability of observing a single trajectory, which is analogous to enquiring about the probability of observing a single point in phase space. In both of these cases the probability is always zero. To be able to effectively address this you must consider the probability density for a set of points in a small region of phase space, or a set of trajectories. The fluctuation theorem considers the probability density for all of the trajectories that are initially in an infinitesimally small region of phase space. This leads directly to the probability of finding a trajectory, in either the forward or the reverse trajectory sets, depending upon the initial probability distribution as well as the dissipation which is done as the system evolves. It is this crucial difference in approach that allows the fluctuation theorem to correctly solve the paradox.\nInformation theory.\nA more recent proposal concentrates on the step of the paradox in which velocities are reversed. At that moment the gas becomes an open system, and in order to reverse the velocities, position and velocity measurements have to be made. Without this, no reversal is possible. These measurements are themselves either irreversible, or reversible. In the first case, they require an increase of entropy in the measuring device that will at least offset the decrease during the reversed evolution of the gas. In the second case, Landauer's principle can be evoked to reach the same conclusion. Hence, the gas+measuring device system obeys the Second Law of Thermodynamics. It is not a coincidence that this argument mirrors closely another one given by Bennett to explain away Maxwell\u2019s demon. The difference is that the role of measurement is obvious in Maxwell\u2019s demon, but not in Loschmidt\u2019s paradox, which may explain the 40-year gap between both explanations. In the case of the single-trajectory paradox, this argument preempts the need for any other explanation, although some of them make valid points. The broader paradox, that \u201can irreversible process cannot be deduced from reversible dynamics,\u201d is not covered by the argument given in this section.\nBig Bang.\nAnother way of dealing with Loschmidt's paradox is to see the second law as an expression of a set of boundary conditions, in which our universe's time coordinate has a low-entropy starting point: the Big Bang. From this point of view, the arrow of time is determined entirely by the direction that leads away from the Big Bang, and a hypothetical universe with a maximum-entropy Big Bang would have no arrow of time. The theory of cosmic inflation tries to give reason why the early universe had such a low entropy."}
{"id": "708841", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708841", "title": "Ranunculus repens", "text": "Ranunculus repens, the creeping buttercup, is a flowering plant in the buttercup family Ranunculaceae, native to Europe, Asia and northwestern Africa. It is also called creeping crowfoot and (along with restharrow) sitfast.\nDescription.\nIt is a herbaceous, stoloniferous perennial plant growing to tall. It has both prostrate running stems, which produce roots and new plants at the nodes, and more or less erect flowering stems. The basal leaves are compound, borne on a long petiole and divided into three broad leaflets long, shallowly to deeply lobed, each of which is stalked, distinguishing the species from \"Ranunculus acris\" in which the terminal leaflet is sessile. The leaves higher on the stems are smaller, with narrower leaflets and may be simple and lanceolate. Both the stems and the leaves are finely hairy. The flowers are golden yellow, glossy, and diameter, usually with five petals, and the flower stem is finely grooved. The gloss is caused by the smooth upper surface of the petal that acts like a mirror; the gloss aids in attracting pollinating insects and thermoregulation of the flower's reproductive organs. The fruit is a cluster of achenes long. Creeping buttercup has three-lobed dark green, white-spotted leaves that grow out of the node. It grows in fields and pastures and prefers wet soil.\nHabitat.\nIt is a very common weed of agricultural land and gardens, spreading quickly by its rooting stolons and resisting removal with a deeply anchored filamentous root ball. In Ireland: very common in damp places, ditches and flooded areas.\nCultivation and uses.\nCreeping buttercup was sold in many parts of the world as an ornamental plant, and has now become an invasive species in many parts of the world.\nLike most buttercups, \"Ranunculus repens\" is poisonous, although these poisons are lost when dried with hay. The taste of buttercups is acrid, so cattle avoid eating them. The plants then take advantage of the cropped ground around them to spread their stolons. Creeping buttercup also is spread through the transportation of hay. Contact with the sap of the plant can cause skin blistering.\nEtymology.\n\"Ranunculus\" is a diminutive of 'rana', meaning 'little frog'. This name is in reference to the amphibious habitat of many \"Ranunculus\" species.\n\"Repens\" means 'creeping' or 'stoloniferous'."}
{"id": "708843", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708843", "title": "Bryan Murray (ice hockey)", "text": "Bryan Clarence Murray (December 5, 1942 \u2013 August 12, 2017) was a Canadian professional ice hockey executive and coach. He served as general manager of the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League (NHL) from 2007 to 2016. He had previously been general manager of the NHL's Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, Florida Panthers, and Detroit Red Wings. He was also the head coach for the Washington Capitals, Detroit Red Wings, Florida Panthers, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, and Ottawa Senators, for a total of 17 full or partial seasons.\nHe compiled over 600 NHL victories in regular season games. In his 13 full NHL seasons as head coach, he took his teams to the playoffs 12 times. In other leagues, he was head coach of the American Hockey League's Hershey Bears and the Western Hockey League's Regina Pats.\nEarly life.\nMurray played ice hockey in his hometown of Shawville growing up, joining the Shawville Pontiacs intermediate club at age 14. He later joined the Rockland Nationals of the Central Junior Hockey League. He attended Macdonald College, a suburban campus of McGill University, which is located in Ste. Anne de Bellevue, Quebec, where he played hockey and football. He returned to Shawville and worked as a gym teacher at Pontiac Protestant High School. He then went into business buying a local motel, and starting Murray's Sporting Goods in Shawville, later managed by his wife Geri.\nEarly coaching career.\nMurray began his coaching career with the Rockland Nationals in 1976 when the team went all the way and won the Centennial Cup of the Canadian Junior Hockey League (CJHL). He earned a good reputation as a coach and was offered a position with the Pembroke Lumber Kings, and then with the Regina Pats of the Western Hockey League (WHL). He left his business interests in the hands of family members and moved west. He took Regina to the Memorial Cup in 1980. Murray then became the head coach of the American Hockey League's Hershey Bears in 1980\u201381, and served in that role until he was promoted to head coach of the Washington Capitals, the Hershey Bears' parent NHL team, partway through the next season in 1981\u201382.\nNHL coach and general manager.\nIn seven full seasons with the Capitals, Murray brought the team to the playoffs each year, and these playoff appearances were the first in franchise history. In his second year, the Capitals won their first playoff series. However, his teams did not advance beyond the second round. He won the Jack Adams Award as coach of the year in 1984. Murray was fired partway through the 1989\u201390 season, with the team struggling, and was replaced by his brother Terry Murray.\nIn 1990, Murray became a coach and general manager of the Detroit Red Wings. The team had good results in his three seasons, making the playoffs each year, but not getting beyond the second round. He remained as general manager in the 1993\u201394 season, after the team named Scotty Bowman as head coach. He departed the Red Wings following the season.\nMurray was next appointed general manager of the expansion Florida Panthers in 1994. In 1996, the young Panthers made it to the Stanley Cup Finals, and Murray was selected as NHL Executive of the Year. He also coached the Panthers for part of the 1997\u201398 season.\nHe next joined the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim as head coach for the 2001\u201302 season. From 2002 to 2004, Murray was general manager of the Mighty Ducks, and again saw his team quickly make a mark in the playoffs, reaching the Stanley Cup Finals. After a disappointing 2003\u201304 season with the Mighty Ducks, he surprised many by deciding to resign from the general manager post, and became the head coach of the Ottawa Senators close to his hometown.\nOn February 20, 2007, he became the fifth NHL coach to achieve 600 victories, in a shootout win against the Edmonton Oilers. Despite this impressive number of victories (at the time the most among active NHL coaches), Murray never won a Stanley Cup. In his most recent trip to the Finals as head coach in 2007, the Senators team that he coached lost in five games to his former club, the Anaheim Ducks. \nWith the firing of John Muckler on June 18, 2007, Murray was promoted to general manager of the Senators, while assistant coach John Paddock took over the club's head coaching duties. However, on February 27, 2008, following a 15\u20132 start, which had briefly put the Senators in first place in the Eastern Conference, Murray fired Paddock after the team struggled through a disastrous January and February. Murray stepped in as interim head coach for the remainder of the 2007\u201308 season, finishing with a 7\u20139\u20132 record, with the team ultimately finishing in seventh place in the Eastern Conference. The Senators were swept in the first round of the playoffs by the Pittsburgh Penguins.\nCraig Hartsburg was hired as the new coach of the team in June 2008. After the Senators struggled for most of the 2008\u201309 season, Murray fired Hartsburg after a 7\u20134 loss against the Capitals. In 48 games as head coach of the Senators, Hartsburg posted a 17\u201324\u20137 record. Cory Clouston, head coach of the AHL's Binghamton Senators, the team's top farm club, was hired as interim head coach. Clouston was appointed as head coach with a two-year contract before the next season.\nMurray signed a three-year contract extension as general manager on April 8, 2011. He fired Clouston and two assistant coaches on April 9, 2011, following the Senators' last game of the season. The team had been beset by injuries to key players such as captain Daniel Alfredsson and star forward Jason Spezza, leading to a mid-season collapse. Murray made a flurry of trades in 2011, after the Senators had fallen out of contention, and promoted many younger players from the team's Binghamton farm club.\nIn 2012, Murray was added to the Shawville Hockey Walk of Fame. In 2015, he was inducted into the Ottawa Sports Hall of Fame. In 2017, he was added to the Senators' \"Ring of Honour\" at Canadian Tire Centre.\nPersonal life.\nMurray, one of ten children born to Clarence and Rhoda Murray, was born and raised in the small Ottawa Valley town of Shawville, Quebec, near Ottawa. He had two daughters with his wife Geri, Heide and Brittany. \nHis younger brother, Terry Murray, was head coach for the Washington Capitals, Philadelphia Flyers, Florida Panthers, and Los Angeles Kings. His nephew, Tim Murray, previously served under Bryan as assistant general manager of the Senators, and later served as the general manager of the Buffalo Sabres.\nHealth and death.\nIn July 2014, the Senators website announced Murray was diagnosed with cancer and was undergoing treatment. On November 13, 2014, Murray announced he had stage 4 colon cancer, which had spread to his liver and lungs. He said \"there is no cure for me at this point\" and that he may have had cancer for up to ten years before its detection.\nOn August 12, 2017, Murray died of colon cancer at the age of 74, three years after he was diagnosed. His funeral was held in his hometown at the Shawville United Church and a Celebration of Life was held at the Canadian Tire Centre. Murray was survived by his wife Geri (n\u00e9e Sutton), daughters Heide and Brittany, and granddaughters Emma and Addie.\nThe Senators wore a decal on the side of their helmets in his memory for the 2017\u201318 season, a red circle, inside of which are his initials, years of birth and death, and a brief description of him as a \"family man, friend, coach, and mentor.\" Senators' goaltender Craig Anderson unveiled a new mask for the 2018-19 season which featured Murray's likeness on the left side with the caption \"1942-2017\". Designed by Sylvie Marsolais, the mask design was Anderson's way of thanking the man who brought him to Ottawa in 2011. \"My career took a turn for the better once I met Bryan,\" said Anderson."}
{"id": "708846", "revid": "24050972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708846", "title": "8th millennium", "text": ""}
{"id": "708847", "revid": "561624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708847", "title": "G8 Summit, 2004", "text": ""}
{"id": "708851", "revid": "45", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708851", "title": "Classical electrodynamics", "text": ""}
{"id": "708852", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708852", "title": "Transit of planet Venus", "text": ""}
{"id": "708854", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708854", "title": "List of publications in Mathematics", "text": ""}
{"id": "708855", "revid": "46083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708855", "title": "Bolshaya Sovetskaya Entsiklopediya", "text": ""}
{"id": "708857", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708857", "title": "Manuel Mendez Ballester", "text": ""}
{"id": "708858", "revid": "36112485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708858", "title": "William Masters", "text": "William Howell Masters (December 27, 1915 \u2013 February 16, 2001) was an American gynecologist and the senior member of the Masters and Johnson human sexuality research team. Along with his partner Virginia E. Johnson, he pioneered research into the nature of human sexual response and the diagnosis and treatment of sexual dysfunctions and disorders from 1957 until the 1990s.\nEarly life.\nBorn in Cleveland, Ohio, William Masters was the older son of Francis Wynn Masters and Estabrooks Taylor Masters. His younger brother was named Frank. Growing up, Masters had a particularly rough childhood at the hands of his father, a difficult man who liked to be in control and had a very bad temper. All household decisions had to be cleared through the father, and in fits of anger he beat young Bill with a belt, sometimes until Bill bled. Nevertheless, Bill was a bright child and excelled at school. After his Aunt Sally decided to pay his tuition, Masters attended the Lawrenceville School, a preparatory school in New Jersey, then for boys only. Once Bill began his education, his father considered him an adult and gave him little to no financial or family support, and so he rarely visited home. With the completion of his early education Masters then attended and graduated from Hamilton College in upstate New York. Afterward, he enrolled at the University of Rochester Medical School, from which he received his medical degree. He was a member of Alpha Delta Phi, and became a faculty member at Washington University in St. Louis. In 1942, he married his first wife, Elizabeth Ellis, who was known as Libby or Betty. The couple had two children.\nCareer.\nRelationship with Virginia Johnson.\nMasters met Virginia E. Johnson in 1957 when he hired her as a research assistant to undertake a comprehensive study of human sexuality. Masters divorced his first wife, Elizabeth Ellis Masters, to marry Johnson in 1971. Masters and Johnson eventually divorced over two decades later but continued their professional collaboration.\nDeath.\nWilliam Masters suffered complications from Parkinson's disease and died in Tucson, Arizona, on February 16, 2001. Masters's second wife, Virginia Johnson, died in July 2013. Dr. Masters was survived by two children from his marriage to Elizabeth Ellis: Sarah Masters Paul, and William Howell Masters III. He was a church-going Episcopalian and a registered Republican.\nIn popular culture.\nThe American cable network Showtime debuted \"Masters of Sex\", a dramatic television series loosely based on the 2009 biography of the same name, on September 29, 2013. The series stars Michael Sheen as Masters and Lizzy Caplan as Virginia Johnson.\nSheen has stated in an interview that he does not know what the real Bill Masters was like and he was doing his own interpretation in his portrayal of him."}
{"id": "708861", "revid": "44217690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708861", "title": "Lake Tappan", "text": "Lake Tappan is a reservoir impounded by the Tappan Dam on the Hackensack River, straddling the border between the U.S. states of New Jersey and New York. Within New Jersey, the lake traverses the border separating the municipalities of River Vale and Old Tappan in Bergen County, while extending northward across the New York state line into the town of Orangetown in Rockand County. The reservoir was formed in 1967, flooding areas that included the former CAPROC Field Civil Air Patrol airstrip.\nThe Lake Tappan reservoir covers 1,255 acres (5.1\u00a0km2), the majority of its area being within New Jersey, and it contains of water, with up to released downstream daily into the Oradell Reservoir, which lies entirely within Bergen County in New Jersey. The passage of this water between reservoirs can occur in as rapidly as two to three hours. Lake Tappan has an average depth of 21' with a maximum depth of 43'.\nOn March 11, 2003, New Jersey Governor Jim McGreevey visited the reservoir and proposed protecting it as well as the nearby Woodcliff Lake Reservoir and their tributaries with Category 1 water purity status.\nThe reservoir is owned by Suez North America, a private utility.\nLake Tappan is a local fishing spot as well, serving as a habitat for bluegill, bass, perch, catfish and carp."}
{"id": "708863", "revid": "48976042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708863", "title": "Speak English or Die", "text": "Speak English or Die is the debut album by the American crossover thrash band Stormtroopers of Death, released in August 30, 1985.\nParts of the songs \"March of the S.O.D.\", \"Milano Mosh\", \"Chromatic Death\" and \"Sargent D and the S.O.D.\" were used for commercial breaks of MTV's \"Headbangers Ball\" in the early 1990s.\n\"March of the S.O.D.\" was the \"Headbangers Ball\" intro anthem for many years.\nComposition.\nAfter Anthrax finished recording \"Spreading the Disease\", there was still some studio time left, so members Scott Ian and Charlie Benante called some friends, practiced some songs, and recorded it all within a week.\nMany point to this album \u2013 and particularly the song \"Milk\" \u2013 as one of the first songs to feature a blast beat, courtesy of Benante. When asked in 2009 if he invented the blast beat, Benante replied, \"If you mean that I decided to sit in my room and invent it, no it wasn't like that. The thing was something that had been around the NY hardcore scene for ages but hadn't been used for other things. The first time it really happened was on S.O.D's 'Milk' song, so I guess you could say I had a lot to do with it. Now a lot of bands are using it and doing it really well.\"\nThe album had some controversy due to the lyrics, which addressed homosexuality, women and foreign cultures. Dan Lilker stated, \"The lyrics were never intended to be serious, just to piss people off.\"\nIn an interview with Songfacts in 2014, when asked \"If \"Speak English or Die\" came out today, do you think that because of the political correctness of today, it would go over the same?\", Lilker responded, \"It probably would have had a harder time just because people seem to be more uptight now. Nevertheless, it was what it was, which is saying it is what it is, but back then. And I don't regret it. Maybe minor aspects went overboard with certain lyrical things, but then again, we didn't really mean them. Perhaps if people realize that, then it's just more funny.\"\nReception.\n\"Speak English or Die\" was well received and is considered one of the greatest and most influential crossover thrash albums of all time, according to sources such as Punk News and Ultimate Guitar. Allmusic gave the album 4.5 stars out of 5 and said, \"S.O.D.'s \"Speak English or Die\" was an important record in the fusion of hardcore punk with thrash and speed metal\".\n\"Speak English or Die\" has sold over one million copies worldwide.\nIn 2009 the album was inducted into the Decibel Hall of Fame.\nLegacy.\nThe album was re-released by Megaforce in August 1995 and a platinum edition of the album was released in February 2000.\nIn August 2014, \"Revolver\" placed \"Speak English or Die\" on its \"14 Thrash Albums You Need to Own\" list.\nAl Jourgensen, frontman of industrial metal band Ministry, describes \"Speak English or Die\" as an influential album that inspired him to add thrash metal guitar riffs to his band's music starting with 1989's \"The Mind Is a Terrible Thing to Taste\". He adds that \"Speak English or Die\" is \"one of the best records ever.\" The group would later cover \"United Forces\" for their 2012 album \"Relapse\".\nScott Ian once recalled that Eddie Vedder was a fan of the album as well, saying he \"cornered me one night at a party for 25 minutes telling me this story about the first time he heard \"Speak English Or Die\" and how it affected his life.\"\nThere were also plans for a \"Speak English or Die\" tribute album featuring multiple artists during the late 1990s; however, the release never materialized.\nTrack listing.\nAll tracks written by S.O.D.\n2015 30th anniversary edition bonus track.\nComparison with bootlegs from this era showed that the live tracks were recorded live at Club Citta in Kawasaki on June 5, 1999, except for \"United Forces\" part I and II, that were recorded at Club Citta on June 7, 1999. S.O.D. also played on June 8, 1999, at Club Citta, completing a three-night stint at the venue.\nThe bonus track \"Ram It Up\" added in reissues was an outtake from the original album sessions that had appeared already in 1985 on the Megaforce \"From the Megavault\" compilation. The song is a cover version taken from the \"Tod und Wahnsinn\" album (1983) of the German hardcore punk band Inferno."}
{"id": "708864", "revid": "33118295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708864", "title": "Manuel M\u00e9ndez Ballester", "text": "Manuel M\u00e9ndez Ballester (4 August 1909 \u2013 24 January 2002), was a Puerto Rican writer who also worked in journalism, radio broadcasting, television and teaching.\nLife and career.\nJos\u00e9 Manuel Epifanio M\u00e9ndez Ballester, better known as Manuel M\u00e9ndez Ballester was born in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, in 1909 to parents Andr\u00e9s M\u00e9ndez Lic\u00edaga and Juana Ballester Gonz\u00e1lez. In Aguadilla, he was raised and received his primary education. Relocating to New York in his teens, he initiated secondary schooling, but upon his return to Puerto Rico, continued his studies on his own. While still in his adolescence, and due to economic urgency, he began to work as a clerk in several commercial houses of Aguadilla and San Juan. He later served in the offices of the District Court of Aguadilla. His next profession was as the Administrator of the Central Coloso sugar cane refinery, a task that allowed him first hand account of the social life, customs and problems of the sugar cane workers. This association and knowledge would prove of great value for the development of his literary role as a dramatist.\nM\u00e9ndez Ballester began to participate in and became fond of local theater productions, and by 1931, his journalistic ventures led him to be collaborator and then editor of \"Atalaya y Letras\", a local cultural periodical in Aguadilla.\nM\u00e9ndez Ballester enrolled at the University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras Campus, seeking to become a lawyer, but before finalizing the first year of studies he dropped out to pursue a career in radio programming for the Department of Public Education. He returned to the university in 1935 as an evaluator and assessor of teachers for workers whom the Administration of Reconstruction of Puerto Rico sponsored.\n\"Isla Cerrera,\" written in 1937, was his first novel, and was a historical view of the early days of Spanish colonization. \"El Clamor de Los Surcos\", his first popular play in 1938, received high accolades by Ateneo Puertorrique\u00f1o. His classic tragedy in three acts, \"Tiempo Muerto\", premiered in 1940. This is considered to be his masterpiece and the one most associated with M\u00e9ndez Ballester. It is set in the sugar cane fields of Aguadilla and deals with the workers during the off season or \"dead time,\" thus the title.\nIn 1943, he organized la Sociedad General de Autores (General Society of Authors) with whom he presented two new drama works: \"Hilaric\u00f3n\" in 1943, and \"Nuestros D\u00edas\" in 1944. He then developed a more comical than satirical style with his \"El Misterio del Castillo\" in 1946, \"Un Fantasma Desentito\" in 1950, the farce \"Es de Vidrios la Mujer\" in 1952, and \"El Curioso Impertinente.\" In 1958 he wrote \"Encrucijada\", and \"El Milagro\" in 1961, followed by \"La Feria o El Mono con la Lata en el Rabo\" (1963). In 1965 he wrote \"Bienvenido Don Goyito\", a popular play which is still revered today. In 1968 he published \"Arriba las Mujeres\", in 1970, the dramatic piece \"La Invasi\u00f3n, \u00f3 Jugando al Divorcio\" and in 1975 back to comedy with \"Los Cocorocos\".\nM\u00e9ndez Ballester was interested in politics and became a senator for the city of San Juan, and upon his retirement from politics dedicated himself to become Puerto Rico's foremost dramatist and man of letters. He died on January 23, 2002, at Auxilio Mutuo Hospital in Hato Rey, Puerto Rico, at age 92. There was a solemn funeral in his parents' native town of San Sebasti\u00e1n, then a procession to Aguadilla, where there was a service at the Inter American University, where he had donated all his literary papers and historical documents to a library named in his honor.\nLuz Odilia Font.\nMendez Ballester is credited with discovering the talents of a young actress, his then neighbor in San Juan, the also San Sebastian native Luz Odilia Font."}
{"id": "708866", "revid": "32403560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708866", "title": "Barbara Simpson", "text": "Barbara Allan Simpson (born July 29, 1937) is an American retired TV reporter, news anchor, and conservative radio talk show host.\nEarly life and education.\nSimpson was born Barbara Allan in New York City and raised in Ocean County, New Jersey. Her parents were Rose (n\u00e9e Colletta), of Italian descent, and John Allan (surname anglicized), a Croatian immigrant. She has a brother, Henry Allan. \nShe graduated from Georgian Court College with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1958 and later earned a Master of Arts degree from Michigan State University.\nCareer.\nAcademic.\nSimpson was an assistant professor and chair of the textiles and clothing department at Mount St. Mary's College in Los Angeles and was on the faculty of a similar department at Michigan State University.\nPersonal.\nSimpson is an experienced markswoman. A Roman Catholic, she lives in Moraga, California. She has two daughters, Elizabeth Zubkoff and Patricia Simpson."}
{"id": "708867", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708867", "title": "Speak English Or Die", "text": ""}
{"id": "708870", "revid": "39761822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708870", "title": "Don Juan DeMarco", "text": "Don Juan DeMarco is a 1994 American romantic comedy-drama film starring Johnny Depp as John Arnold DeMarco, a man who believes himself to be Don Juan, the greatest lover in the world. Clad in a cape and domino mask, DeMarco undergoes psychiatric treatment with Marlon Brando's character, Dr. Jack Mickler, to cure him of his apparent delusion. But the psychiatric sessions have an unexpected effect on the psychiatric staff, some of whom find themselves inspired by DeMarco's delusion; the most profoundly affected is Dr. Mickler himself, who rekindles the romance in his complacent marriage.\nThe movie is based on two different sources; the modern-day story is based on director/screenwriter Jeremy Leven's short story \"Don Juan DeMarco and the Centerfold\" (the movie's original title before the studio changed it shortly before release), while the flashbacks depicting DeMarco's back-story are based on the more familiar legend of Don Juan, especially as told by Lord Byron in his version of the legend.\nDepp received the London Film Critics Circle Award for Actor of the Year, along with his performance in \"Ed Wood\", while the film's theme song, \"Have You Ever Really Loved a Woman?\", co-written and performed by Bryan Adams, was nominated for the Oscar, Grammy, and Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song.\nPlot.\nJohn Arnold DeMarco is a 21-year-old who dresses like Zorro, with a mask, hat and cape, and claims to be Don Juan. After a passionate affair, he decides to commit suicide. At the site of the billboard of a masked model from which he plans to jump, psychiatrist Jack Mickler dissuades him by posing as Don Octavio de Flores. John is then held for a ten-day review in a mental institution.\nMickler, who is about to retire, insists on doing the evaluation and conducts it without medicating the youth. He listens to John's story as Don Octavio: Don Juan was born in Mexico, he has an affair with his school tutor which ultimately leads to the death of his father in a swordfight. Mickler listens to the story while spotting inconsistencies, such as his Castilian accent, but continues to go along with it.\nAt home, Mickler's marriage to his wife Marilyn lacks passion. As Mickler notices that John's presence at the institution is having an impact on the staff \u2013 both distracting the women and dancing with a male attendant on the lawn \u2013 he finds himself being influenced, and starts listening to opera in his house and rekindling the passion with Marilyn.\nEventually Mickler meets with John's grandmother, who tells him that John grew up in Phoenix, Arizona, and that his father was 'The Dance King of Astoria' died in a car crash. When Mickler returns to the institution and confronts his patient with this information, John dismisses his grandmother as misanthropic and of making the backstory up. \nIn response Mickler recounts the story of an insecure young man who fell in love with a woman in a magazine, who then contacted her and was told she never wanted to speak to him again. When John asks what happened to the young man, Mickler tells him he tried to commit suicide.\nAs the ten days tick down, pressure mounts on Mickler to support the youth's indefinite confinement, a decision which he is skeptical of. John has mentioned that his mother became a nun and remains in the convent to this day, and in a subsequent meeting with John, Mickler suggests that John's mother could have possibly had affairs, to which John responds with violent anger.\nJohn concludes his story, about how he was kept two years in a harem as the lover of the sultaness, before finding true love and being rejected on a remote Greek island by his one true love, Do\u00f1a Ana. Mickler tells him at the story's end that he believes John is Don Juan DeMarco, the greatest lover the world has ever known. When John asks Mickler who he is, he says \"I am Don Octavio de Flores\" and that he has seen through all of his masks.\nAt the end of the ten days, Mickler is able to convince John to take his medication, and makes him understand that not everyone believes he is Don Juan. Right before his retirement, Mickler and John meet with the board, with John in street clothes. He speaks with an American accent, and acknowledges that he was born in Queens, his father was killed in a car accident, and that his mother was unfaithful to his father, so entered a convent in Mexico. \nJohn is released and accompanies Mickler, along with his wife Marilyn, to the remote island of Eros that Don Juan has described where he met his true love Ana. The older couple dance on the beach, while John connects with someone in the distance.\nCast.\nOther notable appearances include Al Corley as the woman in the restaurant's date, Nick La Tour as the doorman Nicholas, and Bill Capizzi and Patricia Mauceri as characters in John's story, the sultan and Do\u00f1a Querida. Selena also makes a brief appearance as a singer; this was her first and only film appearance before her murder on March 31, 1995, seven days prior to the film's release.\nMusic.\nThe film features the original Bryan Adams song, \"Have You Ever Really Loved a Woman?\"; the lyrics incorporate quotes from Depp's character, and the melody is used as a musical motif throughout the film. In addition, the song itself is performed three times, once by Selena and a mariachi band serenading the characters in Spanish, once by Jose Hernandez and Nydia, as background music (again in Spanish), and once by Bryan Adams during the closing credits. The song is also available on the soundtrack. The song was nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Song at the 68th Academy Awards, but lost to \"Colors of the Wind\" from \"Pocahontas\".\nSelena recorded other songs for the soundtrack, including \"El Toro Relajo\" and \u201cSiempre Hace Frio\u201d. The score was composed, orchestrated, and conducted by Michael Kamen and was performed by the London Metropolitan Orchestra.\nTori Amos and Michael Stipe recorded a duet for the film called \"It Might Hurt a Bit\" but it remains unreleased.\nRelease.\nBox office.\nA cut of the film was screened for investors in October 1994, before being released in April 1995.\nThe film had an estimated budget of $25 million, grossing just $22,150,451 in the U.S. With a total $68,592,731 gross worldwide, it was considered a success for New Line Cinema. Upon its opening weekend, \"Don Juan DeMarco\" opened at #4 with $4,556,274 behind the openings of \"Bad Boys\" and \"A Goofy Movie\", and the second weekend of \"Tommy Boy\".\nCritical response.\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 72% based on reviews from 39 critics, with an average rating of 6.2/10. The site's consensus was \"\"Don Juan DeMarco\" proves that a slight story can translate to entertaining cinema if it's acted out by a pair of well-matched professionals enjoying their craft.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 63 out of 100 based on reviews from 19 critics, indicating \"generally favorable\" reviews. Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade \"A\u2212\" on scale of A+ to F.\nJanet Maslin of \"The New York Times\" wrote: \"It benefits not only from Mr. Brando's peculiar presence, but also from Johnny Depp, who again proves himself a brilliantly intuitive young actor with strong ties to the Brando legacy. The movie is cheesy, but its stars certainly are not.\" Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film 2 out of 4, and wrote \"Brando doesn't so much walk through this movie as coast, in a gassy, self-indulgent performance no one else could have gotten away with.\""}
{"id": "708871", "revid": "972994511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708871", "title": "Algebraic integers", "text": ""}
{"id": "708879", "revid": "28766260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708879", "title": "List of publications in statistics", "text": "This is a list of publications in statistics, organized by field.\nSome reasons why a particular publication might be regarded as important:\nMathematical statistics.\nMathematical Methods of Statistics\nStatistical Decision Functions\nTesting Statistical Hypotheses\nBayesian statistics.\nAn Essay Towards Solving a Problem in the Doctrine of Chances\nOn Small Differences in Sensation\nTruth and Probability\nBayesian Inference in Statistical Analysis \nTheory of Probability\nIntroduction to statistical decision theory\nMultivariate analysis.\nAn Introduction to Multivariate Analysis\nTime series.\nTime Series Analysis Forecasting and Control\nApplied statistics.\nStatistical Methods for Research Workers\nStatistical Methods\nPrinciples and Procedures of Statistics with Special Reference to the Biological Sciences.\nBiometry: The Principles and Practices of Statistics in Biological Research \nStatistical learning theory.\nOn the uniform convergence of relative frequencies of events to their probabilities\nVariance component estimation.\nOn the mathematical foundations of theoretical statistics\nEstimation of variance and covariance components\nMaximum-likelihood estimation for the mixed analysis of variance model\nRecovery of inter-block information when block sizes are unequal\nEstimation of Variance and Covariance Components in Linear Models\nSurvival analysis.\nNonparametric estimation from incomplete observations\nA generalized Wilcoxon test for comparing arbitrarily singly-censored samples\nEvaluation of survival data and two new rank order statistics arising in its consideration\nRegression Models and Life Tables\nThe Statistical Analysis of Failure Time Data\nMeta analysis.\nReport on Certain Enteric Fever Inoculation Statistics\nThe Probability Integral Transformation for Testing Goodness of Fit and Combining Independent Tests of Significance\nCombining Independent Tests of Significance\nThe combination of estimates from different experiments\nExperimental design.\nOn Small Differences in Sensation\nThe Design of Experiments\nThe Design and Analysis of Experiments\nOn the Experimental Attainment of Optimum Conditions (with discussion)"}
{"id": "708882", "revid": "28478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708882", "title": "Church-Turing", "text": ""}
{"id": "708888", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708888", "title": "Judeo-Tat language", "text": ""}
{"id": "708892", "revid": "948140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708892", "title": "Jason Lee", "text": "Jason Michael Lee (born April 25, 1970) is an American actor, filmmaker, photographer, and former professional skateboarder. He is known for playing Earl Hickey in the television comedy series \"My Name Is Earl\", for which he was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Television Series \u2013 Musical or Comedy in 2005 and 2006. He is also known for his roles in Kevin Smith films such as \"Mallrats\" (1995), \"Chasing Amy\" (1997), \"Dogma\" (1999), \"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back\" (2001), \"Jersey Girl\" (2004), \"Clerks II\" (2006), \"Cop Out\" (2010), and \"Jay and Silent Bob Reboot\" (2019). Lee won the Independent Spirit Award for Best Supporting Male for his performance in \"Chasing Amy\".\nHis other notable film roles include starring in \"Mumford\" (1999), \"Almost Famous\" (2000), \"Heartbreakers\" (2001), \"Big Trouble\" (2002), \"Dreamcatcher\" (2003) and \"Columbus Circle\" (2011). His voice acting credits include Syndrome in \"The Incredibles\" (2004), Bones in \"Monster House\" (2006) and the title character in \"Underdog\" (2007). Lee starred as Dave Seville in the live-action/animation \"Alvin and the Chipmunks\" films (2007\u2013present).\nA former professional skateboarder, Lee is the co-founder and co-owner of Stereo Skateboards, founding the company in 1992 with fellow skateboarder Chris \"Dune\" Pastras. Stereo manufactures and distributes skateboard decks, equipment and apparel, as well as producing skate videos.\nEarly life.\nLee was born in Santa Ana, California, on April 25, 1970. His father, Greg Lee, was a car dealership manager and his mother, Carol Lee, was a homemaker. He has an older brother, James (b. 1968). Lee was raised in Huntington Beach and attended Ocean View High School. A hyperactive and energetic child, Lee took up skateboarding after his mother bought him a skateboard with the hope that he would use it to burn off excessive energy. As he developed an interest in the art of skateboarding, Lee spent the majority of his time perfecting his craft, which would eventually lead to him dropping out of school in order to pursue a professional career.\nCareer.\nSkateboarding.\nLee was a professional skateboarder in the late 1980s and early 1990s. In 1992, he founded Stereo Sound Agency, known as Stereo Skateboards, with fellow skater Chris \"Dune\" Pastras. In 2003, after it had been defunct for a few years, the pair successfully revived the company. As of October 2013, Lee and Pastras remained on the professional \"Classics\" team roster.\nLee was featured in the skateboarding promotional video, \"Video Days\" (1991), filmed for the skateboarding company Blind Skateboards. In 2004, Lee's skateboarding was featured in \"Way Out East!\", a film produced by Stereo Skateboards.\nIn August 2012, Lee was also featured in a brief video on the skateboard website The Berrics titled \"Jason Lee decided to come to the park\".\nIn August 2012, Lee participated in the ninth annual Stand-Up for Skateparks Event, which he chaired with Tony Hawk. The event is held annually by the Tony Hawk Charitable Foundation and seeks to \"help create free, quality public skateparks for youth in low-income communities\".\nIn October that same year, a video was released by the Keep A Breast Foundation, featuring various skateboarding identities, including Lee, together with Pastras. The video, contributing to the Foundation's aim to prevent and raise awareness of breast cancer, promotes the \"I Love Boobies\" bracelet. It also features Clint Peterson (Stereo) and Giovanni Reda (WESC), who are both teammates of Lee.\nLee later worked with Tony Hawk when he lent his voice and likeness to \"Tony Hawk's Project 8\" (2006) to become a playable character. Lee then voiced Coach Frank, a character created during the development of Stereo, in the video game \"Skate 3\" (2010).\nProfessional skateboarder and owner of the Girl and Lakai Limited Footwear skateboard brands Mike Carroll has cited Lee as one of his skating influences.\nLee has been particularly cited for his 360 flips, which even the trick's inventor, Rodney Mullen, credits him with stylizing and popularizing.\nActing.\nAfter taking some minor acting roles in 1992\u20131994 (including the music video for the Sonic Youth single \"100%\", a small part in \"Mi Vida Loca\", and a bit part as a dance instructor on \"Chance and Things\"), Lee left professional skateboarding for a full-time acting career. His first major film role was in Kevin Smith's \"Mallrats\", which became a cult hit. This started a friendship that subsequently led to appearances in many of Smith's films, including \"Chasing Amy\", \"Dogma\", \"Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back\", \"Clerks II\", \"Cop Out\", and \"Jay and Silent Bob Reboot\". Lee won an Independent Spirit Award for his role in \"Chasing Amy\" as Banky Edwards.\nLee graduated to leading man roles in \"Heartbreakers\", \"Stealing Harvard\", and \"A Guy Thing\". He has had supporting roles in \"Vanilla Sky\", \"Almost Famous\", \"Dreamcatcher\", \"Big Trouble\", \"The Ballad of Jack and Rose\", and \"Mumford\", as well as a minor role in \"Enemy of the State\". Lee also voiced Syndrome in \"The Incredibles\" and \"Jack-Jack Attack\". He reprised the role as a \"robot copy\" of Syndrome in \"Disney Presents Pixar's The Incredibles in a Magic Kingdom Adventure\". Lee is also the voice of Underdog in \"Underdog\" and portrays Dave Seville in the 4 live-action/CGI films starring Alvin and the Chipmunks.\nIn 2005, Lee was offered the lead role in the television series \"My Name Is Earl\". According to interviews on the first-season DVD, he passed on the series twice before finally agreeing to read for the pilot. In the series he stars as Earl Hickey. Lee received two Golden Globe nominations for in 2006 and 2007, as well as a nomination for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Comedy Series in 2006. NBC cancelled \"My Name Is Earl\" after four seasons.\nOn June 22, 2010, \"Memphis Beat\" premiered. Lee stars alongside Alfre Woodard and portrays Dwight Hendricks. In October 2011, it was announced the series was not renewed for a third season. He guest-starred in 2010 and 2013 episodes of \"Raising Hope\", created by \"My Name is Earl\" creator and producer Greg Garcia.\nAs of December 2011, Lee appeared in \"Up All Night\", but after its second season, it was officially cancelled on May 9, 2013. In June 2013, \" (2015)\", a fourth and final film in the \"Alvin and the Chipmunks\" franchise, was announced by 20th Century Fox; its release date was December 18, 2015.\nLee is in the Amazon Studios 49-minute pilot of \"Cocked\", where he plays the character of Grady Paxson, one of three men who run a family company, manufacturing guns. The show premiered on January 15, 2015, and also stars Brian Dennehy, Diora Baird, Dreama Walker, and Sam Trammell. On January 25, 2015, The Hallmark Channel premiered \"Away &amp; Back\", a Hallmark Hall of Fame film starring Lee, Maggie Elizabeth Jones and Minka Kelly.\nPhotography.\nLee began taking photos regularly in the early 2000s, and became interested in instant photography. He released his first photo book through \"Refueled Magazine\". It consists of \"184 pages of Polaroid &amp; Fuji Instant Film photographs from 2006-2016\", printed in an edition of 500 copies. In 2018 he published \"A Plain View,\" a photo book consisting of color 4\u00d75 photographs from his exploration of rural and urban America. From June to December 2019, his photographs of Oklahoma were exhibited in exhibit \"OK: Jason Lee Photographs\" in Philbrook Museum of Art. These works are scheduled to be released as the book \"OK\" in 2022. In December 2020, British publishing house Stanley/Barker released \"In the Gold Dust Rush\", consisting of black and white photographs of rural America. In 2021, Lee released \"Galveston,\" commissioned by the Galveston Historical Foundation. He is inspired by work of New Topographics movement, notably by Henry Wessell. He photographs on film. Lee owns a photography shop in Los Angeles called Eagle Rock Camera.\nPersonal life.\nLee married actress and photographer Carmen Llywelyn in 1995. They divorced in 2001. Llywelyn later said that Lee's commitment to Scientology was the principal reason for their separation. Llywelyn wrote that their relationship collapsed when she revealed to her talent manager and fellow Scientologist, Gay Ribisi (mother of actor Giovanni Ribisi and actress Marissa Ribisi), that she had read \"A Piece of Blue Sky\", a book about the reality of Scientology. Two days after her conversation with Ribisi, Llywelyn received a one-paragraph \"disconnection letter\" from Lee and was labeled a suppressive person.\nFollowing his divorce from Llywelyn, Lee became engaged to actress Beth Riesgraf. Together, they have a son, Pilot Inspektor, born in 2003. Lee states their son's name was inspired by \"He's Simple, He's Dumb, He's the Pilot.\" by rock band Grandaddy.\nLee married Ceren Alka\u00e7 in California in July 2008. A month later, Alka\u00e7 gave birth to a daughter named Casper. The couple had their second child, a son named Sonny, in 2012. Their third child, a daughter named Alberta 'Birdy' Lee, was born in 2017.\nIn 2016, Lee revealed that he is no longer a Scientologist. When asked by \"The Guardian\" why he became a Scientologist he said, \"Everybody wants answers, everybody wants to feel less depressed or less anxious or they want to try to understand some issue that they might have with themselves.\" He added: \"Ultimately, it was just not for me. That's it. I wasn't really involved going back many, many years now.\"\nLee currently resides in Los Angeles, California, with his family after living in Denton, Texas, for four years. He was a 1/5th co-owner of the restaurant \"Barley and Board\" before its closure."}
{"id": "708893", "revid": "31711350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708893", "title": "Jason Lee (disambiguation)", "text": "Jason Lee (born 1970) is an American film and TV actor and former professional skateboarder.\nJason Lee may also refer to:"}
{"id": "708895", "revid": "989799782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708895", "title": "Water therapy", "text": ""}
{"id": "708898", "revid": "48643156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708898", "title": "Kristin Halvorsen", "text": "Kristin Halvorsen (born 2 September 1960) is a Norwegian politician of the Socialist Left Party. She served as Minister of Finance from 2005 to 2009 and as Minister of Education from 2009 to 2013. She also served as the party's leader from 1997 to 2012 and a member of parliament representing Oslo, from 1989 to 2013.\nTaking over as leader of the Socialist Left Party in 1997, she established an unprecedented level of consensus within the party. At the 2005 election, the party received a disappointing 8.8% share of the vote, and in 2009 down further, to 6.2%. She stepped down as leader in 2012, and was succeeded by Audun Lysbakken on 11 March.\nThe Socialist Left, in coalition with the Labour Party and the Centre Party, won Norway's September 2005 parliamentary elections. The resulting Red-Green coalition government marked the first time that the Socialist Left Party was included in the cabinet. Halvorsen took office as Minister of Finance, becoming the first woman to hold the position.\nBackground.\nHalvorsen was born in Horten, Vestfold. After taking university courses in pedagogy (1.5 years) and criminology (1 year) without receiving a degree, Halvorsen worked for a while as a legal secretary. She served as a vice member to the Parliament from 1985, and was elected member of Parliament in 1989, representing the county of Oslo, a seat she has held ever since. She has been a member of the parliamentary standing Committee on Finance (1989\u20131997) and the Committee on Scrutiny and Constitutional Affairs (1997\u20132001). She is presently a member of the Election Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Chairman of the Socialist Left Party's parliamentary group, but is on leave from these positions while sitting in government.\nHalvorsen was the first Norwegian party leader to launch a blog.\nAfter leaving active politics, Halvorsen transitioned into environmental leadership. Halvorsen has been the director of the CICERO Centre for International Climate Science since 2016. Halvorsen also serves as Vice Chairperson of the China Council for International Cooperation on Environment and Development (CCICED), contributing to global environmental governance. She sits on the board of Statkraft and was the acting chair of the Norwegian Research Council.\nPersonal life.\nKristin Halvorsen's parents are Leif Georg Halvorsen, a civil engineer, and Marit Larsen, a teacher. Kristin is married to Charlo Halvorsen, an editor at Norsk Rikskringkasting.\nControversies.\nKindergarten coverage promise.\nIn the electoral campaign of the 2005 election Halvorsen announced that she would leave politics if the government would not be able to provide all citizens with kindergarten for their children by the end of 2007, and proclaimed that \"this is so important for me that you'll get rid of me if we don't accomplish this\". While she stood firmly by her announcement even two months after the election, she in October 2006 simply withdrew her promise, stating that \"what I have said is that we'll have full coverage in 2007. But nobody will get rid of me if full coverage is missing in one or two municipalities\". By the end of 2007, 90 percent of municipalities will be able to offer kindergarten for all applicants, with the not fully covered constituting approximately 43 municipalities in Norway.\nPoverty resolved \"with the stroke of a pen\" claim.\nIn the same electoral campaign she claimed that poverty in Norway could be eliminated \"with the stroke of a pen\". After being elected to government and becoming Minister of Finance, by the end of the four-year term she had not accomplished this, as homelessness was actually increasing. When attending a television program during the 2009 electoral campaign, she also refused to apologise to the poor in Norway for her failure.\nIsrael boycott.\nOn 5 January 2006, Halvorsen caused a controversy by calling for boycott of Israeli products as a sign of solidarity with the Palestinians. The government and the other parties in the coalition distanced themselves from these remarks, and Halvorsen later apologized as foreign matters were outside her government position.\nIn January 2009, Halvorsen took part in anti-Israel protests which erupted into violent riots."}
{"id": "708900", "revid": "426156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708900", "title": "Jason Lee (footballer)", "text": "Jason Benedict Lee (born 9 May 1971) is an English football manager and former player.\nLee played as a forward, most notably in the Premier League for Nottingham Forest where he featured over three seasons, one of which saw him play in the UEFA Cup. He also had a brief spell in the Scottish First Division with Falkirk, but played the bulk of his professional career in the Football League with Charlton Athletic, Stockport County, Lincoln City, Southend United, Grimsby Town, Watford, Chesterfield, Peterborough United, Boston United, Northampton Town, Notts County and Mansfield Town. He later had spells in non-league football with Kettering Town, Corby Town, Ilkeston Town and Arnold Town\nIn 2011 he returned to Boston United and was appointed as manager initially alongside Lee Canoville, although he later took up the role on a sole basis before being dismissed in 2012.\nPlaying career.\nLee began his career at Charlton Athletic but having failed to establish himself in the side moved to Lincoln City in 1991 before later moving to Southend United.\nHe moved to Nottingham Forest in 1994. Initially, Lee failed to crack his way into Forest's first team. However, the departure of Stan Collymore to Liverpool saw him feature for the first team. In the 1995\u201396 season he scored eight league goals in 28 games.\nFollowing two loan spells, back at his first club Charlton and at Grimsby Town, Lee was transferred to Watford in 1997 for \u00a3200,000 \u2013 the same fee paid by Forest three years earlier \u2013 and played in their 1997\u201398 Second Division championship-winning side, scoring ten goals. However, Lee's refusal to uproot his family from Nottingham caused tension with manager Graham Taylor, who sold him to Chesterfield early in the 1998\u201399 season for \u00a3250,000.\nAfter that, he played for Peterborough United (2000\u20132003), Falkirk (2003\u20132004), Boston United (2004\u20132006). In January 2006, Lee joined Northampton Town on a free transfer. He was part of the Northampton side that won promotion from League Two, appearing 11 times for the Cobblers and scoring one goal against Notts County. However, he was released at the end of the season and subsequently joined Aldershot Town. His stay at the Shots was a brief one, and in June 2006 he moved to Notts County, and was team captain for the 2007\u201308 season. It was announced on BBC East Midlands Today, during a feature presented by the player, that he would not be retained by the club for the 2008\u201309 campaign.\nFollowing his release from the Magpies, signed for Mansfield Town on 1 August 2008.\nLee signed for Kettering Town on 13 January 2009, for the remainder of the 2008\u201309 season from Mansfield Town. Lee scored once in six league games for Kettering, his strike coming in a 2\u20131 loss to Stevenage on 27 January 2009.\nHe moved on to Corby Town, making his debut in a 3\u20133 draw against Farnborough on 21 March 2009.\nHe joined Ilkeston Town of the Conference North on 1 April 2010, scoring on his d\u00e9but in a 2\u20131 victory over AFC Telford United.\nAfter a long and wide-ranging career Lee announced his retirement from football in November 2010 following the death of his mother.\nLee came out of retirement in March 2011 when he joined Arnold Town, debuting in the club's Northern Counties East League 1\u20130 defeat at Hallam on 8 March 2011. The same week he was announced as the Matchday VIP Host for former club Lincoln City, a role which would limit his availability for Arnold. His second, and final, league appearance for the club saw him sent-off for two yellow cards, the second for the use of the elbow, in the 4\u20132 defeat to Pickering Town on 19 March 2011.\nManagerial career.\nOn 22 March 2011, Lee, along with Lee Canoville was confirmed as caretaker coach of Boston United following the resignation of joint first team managers Rob Scott and Paul Hurst. Lee re-registered himself as a player towards the end of the 2010\u201311 season. He made three appearances, including the final of the Lincolnshire Senior Shield and one Conference North playoff-game. Jason Lee was sacked as manager in December 2012 after a run of poor results in the 2012/13 season leaving the Pilgrims in 10th place.\nFootball administration.\nIn 2013 Lee became the Equality Education Executive for the Professional Footballers Association (PFA). He is a graduate of Staffordshire University having studied for his degree through a partnership between the University and the PFA.\nIn popular culture.\nLee was frequently mocked by comedians Frank Skinner and David Baddiel in the 1990s football comedy TV show \"Fantasy Football League\". In a series of sketches, Lee was lampooned for his perceived poor footballing ability and his distinctive hairstyle, described as resembling a \"pineapple\". When asked what he made of Baddiel performing in blackface, Lee said: \"I'd ask them if they realised the significance of what they were doing. It was, looking back, a form of bullying. I work in equalities now, and it can affect different people in different ways. I don't think people appreciate the possible harm it can cause. Not everyone has the make-up to deal with that, and they shouldn't have to.\" In a 2022 interview, Skinner said their behaviour had been unacceptable: \"Looking back, it was a bullying campaign. And it's awful. And yeah, I'm ashamed of it ... It wouldn't be too much to say we're both deeply ashamed.\" David Baddiel featured on Lee's podcast, during which he apologised unreservedly for what Baddiel termed racist behaviour. The interview is the most successful on the 'absoluteleepodcast' podcast, earning 59,000 views on YouTube (Jan 2024 data)."}
{"id": "708903", "revid": "50173044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708903", "title": "Aeonium", "text": "Aeonium, the tree houseleeks, is a genus of about 35 species of succulent, subtropical plants of the family Crassulaceae. Many species are popular in horticulture. The genus name comes from the ancient Greek \u03b1\u1f30\u03ce\u03bd\u03b9\u03bf\u03c2 / ai\u014dnios (ageless). While most of them are native to the Canary Islands, some are found in Madeira, Cape Verde, Morocco, in East Africa (Ethiopia, Somalia, Uganda, Tanzania and Kenya) and Yemen.\nDescription.\nThe succulent leaves are typically arranged on a basal stem, in a dense, spreading rosette. A feature which distinguishes this genus from many of its relatives is the manner in which the flowers bear free petals, and are divided into 6 or 12 sections. With the exception of \"\", each rosette produces a central inflorescence only once, and then dies back (though it will usually branch or offset to produce ensuing rosettes).\nLow-growing \"Aeonium\" species are \"A.\u00a0tabuliforme\" and \"A.\u00a0smithii\"; large species include \"A.\u00a0arboreum and\" \"A.\u00a0valverdense\". They are related to the genera \"Sempervivum\", \"Aichryson\" and \"Monanthes\", as can be seen by their similar flower and inflorescences. Recently, the genus \"Greenovia\" has been placed within \"Aeonium\".\nSpecies and distribution.\nAll but two species are native to at least one of three different Macaronesian archipelagos (the Canary Islands, Madeira, or Cape Verde) Most aeoniums are from the Canary Islands, The only species not native to these three Macaronesian island groups (\"Aeonium stuessyi\" and \"Aeonium\" \"leucoblepharum\") are found in Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania; and Ethiopia, Kenya, Sudan, Uganda and Yemen, respectively. \"Aeonium arboreum\" is native to both the Canary Islands and Morocco.\nSpecies accepted by Plants of the World Online as of April 2023: \nHybrids.\nMuch hybridising has been done, resulting in several cultivars of mixed or unknown parentage. The following species and cultivars have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit:-\nHybridising between Aeonium species or cultivars and other Crassulaeceae species or cultivars has produced intergeneric crosses:\nSome species have been introduced in California.\nUK national collections of aeoniums are held by Mellie Lewis at Clun in Shropshire and by Inverewe at Poolewe, Wester Ross in Scotland."}
{"id": "708905", "revid": "164776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708905", "title": "Greenovia", "text": ""}
{"id": "708907", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708907", "title": "Art ouf noize", "text": ""}
{"id": "708908", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708908", "title": "Old San Juan", "text": "Old San Juan () is a historic district or quarter located at the \"northwest triangle\" of San Juan Islet in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Its area roughly correlates to the Ballaj\u00e1, Catedral, Marina, Mercado, San Crist\u00f3bal, and San Francisco sub-barrios (sub-districts) of barrio San Juan Antiguo in the municipality of San Juan, Puerto Rico.\nOld San Juan is the oldest settlement within Puerto Rico and the historic colonial district of the city of San Juan. This historic district is a Puerto Rico Registered Historic Zone and a National Historic Landmark District, Old San Juan Historic District, and is also listed on the United States National Register of Historic Places. Several historical buildings and structures, particularly La Fortaleza, the city walls, and El Morro and San Crist\u00f3bal castles, have been inscribed in the UNESCO World Heritage Site list since 1983.\nHistorically the mixed-use commercial and residential real estate in the main streets of \"Calle Cristo\" and \"Calle Fortaleza\" from \"Calle Tanca\" to the Governor's Mansion is the most valuable in the area and it has kept its value and increased steadily through several years despite the past economic turmoil.\nLocation.\nOld San Juan is located on a small and narrow island which lies along the north coast, about from the east end of Puerto Rico, and is connected to the mainland of Puerto Rico by three bridges. It is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean to the north and to the south by San Juan Bay (\"Bahia de San Juan\")\u2014which lies between the city and the mainland. On a promontory (\"morro\") about high, at the west end of the island and commanding the entrance to the harbor, rise the battlements of Fort San Felipe del Morro, and its lighthouse.\nThe San Antonio Channel (\"Ca\u00f1o de San Antonio\") lies to the southeast, where the island of Old San Juan connects to the mainland through Santurce, by three bridges: Dos Hermanos (Ashford Avenue), G. Esteves (Ponce de Le\u00f3n Avenue) and San Antonio (Fern\u00e1ndez Juncos Avenue).\nThe city is characterized by its narrow, blue cobblestone streets, and flat-roofed brick and stone buildings, which date back to the 16th and 17th centuries\u2014when Puerto Rico was a Spanish possession. Near Fort San Felipe del Morro, is the Casa Blanca, a palace built on land which belonged to the family of Ponce de Le\u00f3n.\nHistory.\nOrigins.\nIn 1508, Juan Ponce de Le\u00f3n founded the original settlement, Caparra (named after the Province of C\u00e1ceres, Spain, birthplace of the then-governor of Spain's Caribbean territories, Nicol\u00e1s de Ovando). The ruins of Caparra are known as the Pueblo Viejo sector of Guaynabo, behind the almost land-locked harbor just to the west of the present San Juan metropolitan area. In 1509, the settlement was abandoned and moved to a site which was called at the time \"Puerto Rico\" (meaning \"rich port\" or \"good port\"), a name that evoked that of a similar geographical harbor in the island of Gran Canaria, Canary Islands. The official settlement of this new town was marked by the establishment of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of San Juan in 1511, the first Catholic diocese to be established in the Americas, and by the construction of the first wooden iteration of its cathedral in 1513 together with the establishment of a Latin school by bishop Alonso Manso.\nIn 1521, this new settlement was given its formal name of \"Ciudad de Puerto Rico de San Juan Bautista\", following the custom of christening the primary settlement of an island colony with both its formal town name and the name given by Christopher Columbus to the island, honoring John the Baptist. The settlement was also platted this same year, with many of its first streets and plazas being built at the time, such Calle del Cristo, Plaza de Armas and Plaza de la Catedral. Also constructed in 1521, Casa Blanca served as the first fortification of the settlement and residence of Juan Ponce de Le\u00f3n and his descendants until the mid-eighteenth century.\nExpansion and growth.\nSome of the first European establishment in the Western Hemisphere were also established in Old San Juan during the mid and second half of the16th century. Some of these include the Thomas Aquinas Convent (today the National Gallery of Puerto Rico) in 1523, Nuestra Se\u00f1ora de la Concepci\u00f3n Hospital in 1524, and the former Gothic stone cathedral building.\nThe strategic position of Old San Juan in the context of the Caribbean and the Atlantic Ocean also made it a target for foreign attacks, which motivated the erection of a city wall between 1530 and 1560. Several fortresses and castles were also build during this time: La Fortaleza was built between 1533 and 1540, followed by the construction of the first battery at El Morro. Plans for the castle portion of San Felipe del Morro were made in 1584. Extensions, plus construction of El Ca\u00f1uelo and El Boquer\u00f3n forts, were made between 1599 and 1609. Complete circumvallation of the city was finally completed in 1641. Although several fortresses were built at the site during the time, it was not until 1771 when San Cristobal, the largest of the fortresses, was completed.\nBy 1776, the population totaled 6000, half of which were soldiers. The garrison town of San Juan included of military installations and of public and private use. By 1781, the city's fortifications included 376 cannon. By 1876, 24,000 lived inside the walls of San Juan, encompassing 25 hectares, and 926 buildings.\nPrior to the 19th century, the area outside the city walls occupying the east side of Old San Juan Island, was almost uninhabited. In 1838 the so-called area of Puerta de Tierra had a population of 168 residents, mainly of African descent. According to a census made in 1846, the population had risen to 223 inhabitants living in 58 houses. On March 3, 1865, the municipal government of San Juan approved a resolution promoting the city expansion across the Puerta de Tierra which included the plan for demolishing the city walls along the eastern side. On May 28, 1897, the wall demolition was officially started after a proclamation was issued by Queen Maria Christina. By the year 1899, the population of Puerta de Tierra had risen to 5,453; while the area comprising the old walled city had a civilian population of roughly 18,103 inhabitants.\nMaintaining architectural integrity.\nDuring the late 1940s, disrepair in the old city was evident. The local authorities were considering development proposals for renovating the old city and incorporating modern architecture on new constructions. Anthropologist Ricardo Alegr\u00eda vehemently advised against the idea of demolishing old colonial buildings in favor of contemporary building designs. He followed the example suggested by his father, a local civic leader who had successfully prevented the demolition of the \"Capilla del Cristo\" in favor of a traffic redesign. He advised mayor Rinc\u00f3n de Gautier in having local zoning laws changed to favor remodeling and the incorporation of Spanish colonial motifs in any new construction. This helped preserve the city's architectural profile, and has been a key to San Juan's current status as a tourist destination.\nLuis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn, as a senator and later as governor of Puerto Rico, supported and implemented what became known as Operation Bootstrap, which included the development of the tourism industry. In 1948 the government invited one of the organizers of Colonial Williamsburg to lead its tourism development efforts. These efforts were further supported by the 1955 creation of the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture (\"Instituto de Cultura Puertorrique\u00f1a\") head by Alegr\u00eda. He sought legal and administrative changes that would allow for major remodeling efforts to be successful. At the time, most real estate in Old San Juan had devalued under appraised values because the city was perceived as unsafe (particularly because of building disrepair and social ills such as prostitution) and not profitable for business (because of rent control statutes, as well as the reluctance of commercial banks to fund remodeling). Under combined efforts by the institute and the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico, \"model\" remodelings were made to show potential property owners how their renewed properties could look. Strict remodeling codes were implemented to prevent new constructions from affecting the common colonial Spanish architectural themes of the old city. As with other Operation Bootstrap projects, mainland corporate investors were lured in with tax breaks and other incentives. When a project proposal suggested that the old Carmelite Convent in San Juan be demolished to erect a new hotel, the Institute had the building declared a historic building, and asked that it be converted to a hotel in a renewed facility. As in other Operation Bootstrap projects, the Woolworth family was invited in 1957 to reconstruct the former convent (which had more recently been a low-rent apartment building and city garage) into the luxury \"Hotel El Convento\". The Bank provided low interest loans to remodelers, and the government gave triple tax exemptions to commercial activities in the old city (they were exempted for a limited time, not only from property taxes and municipal taxes, but from income tax from activities generated in their properties as well). At least one retailer from the shopping district in Charlotte Amalie was given incentives to set up shop in the \"Calle del Cristo\" (the city's red light district during the early 1940s) in order to persuade other retailers to follow suit and somehow \"clean up\" the district. Potential developers were offered sketches of their properties after a remodeling, as to suggest which architectural elements to improve or change. The paradigm to reconstruct and renovate the old city and revitalize it has been followed by other cities in Latin America, particularly Havana, Lima and Cartagena de Indias.\nHistoric designations.\nThe San Juan National Historic Site () was established in 1949 to preserve historic fortifications in Old San Juan and the National Register of Historic Places listed it in 1966. Both that site and La Fortaleza (English: \"The Fortress\") were then declared a single World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1983.\nIn 1951, the broader area within the old city walls became the first listing of the Puerto Rico Register of Historic Sites and Zones as the \"Zona Antigua Hist\u00f3rica Casco de San Juan\" (English: Historic Old Town Area of San Juan). In 1972, the same area was recognized by the National Register of Historic Places as the San Juan Historic Zone (). In 2012, the National Register increased the boundaries and renamed the district to Old San Juan Historic District (). Old San Juan was then designated a National Historic Landmark District in 2013.\nLandmarks and attractions.\nLa Perla.\nLa Perla (Spanish for \"the pearl\") is a former shanty town or informal settlement located along the northern section of the historic San Juan city walls. Originally the site of slaughterhouses, the area was later settled by freed slaves and non-white servants in the 18th century. In the 20th century the community grew to become a neighborhood of Old San Juan and its reputation has recently transformed from a dangerous place into a cultural hub. It has appeared on films, literature, TV shows and music videos.\nToday.\nWith its abundance of shops, historic places, museums, open air caf\u00e9s, restaurants, colorful homes, tree-shaded plazas, and its old beauty and architectural peculiarity, Old San Juan is a main spot for domestic and international tourism.\nThe district is characterized by numerous public plazas, which are filled with local shops that sell traditional craftwork, sculptures and typical musical instruments. Moreover, Old San Juan is known for its historical churches, such as San Jos\u00e9 Church and the Cathedral of San Juan Bautista, which contains the tomb of the Spanish explorer and first European to discover modern day Florida, Juan Ponce de Le\u00f3n.\nTourists' main spot to visit at Old San Juan is Castillo San Felipe del Morro, a fort built by the Spaniards when settled on the Island. Besides the magnificent fort, tourists are drawn to La Perla, a colorful neighborhood outside of the historic city wall.\nOld San Juan is one of the two \"barrios\", in addition to Santurce, that made up the municipality of San Juan after 1864 and prior to 1951, in which the former independent municipality of R\u00edo Piedras was annexed.\nBlockhouses and subbarrios.\nThe oldest parts of the district of Old San Juan remain partly enclosed by massive walls. Several defensive structures and notable forts, such as the Fort San Felipe del Morro, Castle of San Crist\u00f3bal, and \"el Palacio de Santa Catalina\" (also known as La Fortaleza), acted as the primary defense of the settlement which has been subjected to numerous attacks. La Fortaleza continues to serve also as the executive mansion for the Governor of Puerto Rico. Many of the historic fortifications are part of San Juan National Historic Site. Old San Juan's land area roughly correlates to the following subbarrios of barrio San Juan Antiguo: Ballaj\u00e1, Catedral, Marina, Mercado, San Crist\u00f3bal, and San Francisco.\nPublic transportation.\nOld San Juan is the location for one of two transportation hubs serving Metropolitan San Juan. At one time, a free trolley provided limited service to Old San Juan seven days a week but is not available any longer. People get around the city on foot or by car. There have been plans to turn the historic district into a pedestrian-only zone, and to either rebuild the trolley system or build a new light-rail train system in the recent years.\nPopular culture.\nOld San Juan is the setting for films, books, song lyrics and music videos, including the following:"}
{"id": "708909", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708909", "title": "Art Of Noise", "text": ""}
{"id": "708910", "revid": "525927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708910", "title": "Aichryson", "text": "Aichryson is a genus of 16 species of succulent, subtropical plants, native to the Canary Islands, Azores, and Madeira.\nThe species of \"Aichryson\" are not frost-resistant. They are related to \"Sempervivum, Jovibarba, Greenovia, Aeonium\" and \"Monanthes\", readily seen in their similar flowers.\nThe genus name comes from a contraction of the Greek \"aei\" (always) and \"chrysos\" (gold).\nSeveral species are cultivated as ornamental plants. The hybrid cultivar \"Aichryson\" \u00d7 \"aizoides\" var. \"domesticum\" 'Variegatum' is a recipient of the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. \nTaxonomy.\nRecent phylogenetic studies of Crassulaceae indicate that \"Aichryson\" is closely related to \"Monanthes\" and \"Aeonium\" (both genera are also largely endemic to the Canary Islands). Two other genera of Crassulaceae that have many-parted (polymerous) flowers (\"Sempervivum\" and \"Jovibarba\") are not closely related to the three Canary Island genera.\nOn the Canary Islands, the center of species diversity seems to be the island of La Palma.\nRelationships within \"Aichryson\" were investigated by Fairfield et al. (2004) [\"Plant Systematics and Evolution\" 248: 71\u201383]. They found that the five subspecies of \"A. pachycaulon\" were not each other's closest relatives (monophyletic) and additional species may need to be erected after additional study.\nSpecies.\n16 species, and several naturally occurring interspecies hybrids, are accepted."}
{"id": "708914", "revid": "39189323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708914", "title": "Monanthes", "text": "Monanthes is a genus of small, succulent, subtropical plants of the family Crassulaceae. Most species in the genus are endemic to the Canary Islands, with one species also endemic to the Savage Islands and another to the High Atlas mountains of Morocco. Its center of diversity is Tenerife, with seven species occurring on this island. On Fuerteventura and Lanzarote, only \"M. laxiflora\" occurs.\n\"Monanthes\" is a rare example where a species re-colonizes the continent from an island, after their ancestors have colonized the island from the continent.\n\"Monanthes\" are not frost-resistant. They are linked with the genera \"Sempervivum\", \"Greenovia\", \"Aichryson\" and \"Aeonium\", which is obvious from their similar flowers.\nSpecies of \"Monanthes\" differ considerably in life- and growth-form. \"M. icterica\", which is also genetically quite distant to other \"Monanthes\" species, is annual, while the other species are perennial.\nTaxonomy.\nAccepted species include:\nEtymology.\n\"Monanthes\" is Greek for \"single flower\"."}
{"id": "708922", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708922", "title": "Orthogastropoda", "text": "Orthogastropoda was a major taxonomic grouping of snails and slugs, an extremely large subclass within the huge class Gastropoda according to the older taxonomy of the Gastropoda (Ponder &amp; Lindberg, 1997).\nThis taxon is no longer used according to the taxonomy of the Gastropoda by Bouchet &amp; Rocroi, 2005.\nPonder and Lindberg (1997) in the book \"The Southern Synthesis\", showed the Orthogastropoda as one of two subclasses of the Gastropoda, the other subclass being a very much smaller group called the Eogastropoda, which contained only 5 families of true limpets.\nThis subclass, Orthogastropoda, which one perhaps could call the \"true snails\", was defined most concisely as all gastropods which were not members of Patellogastropoda, the true limpets.\nThe Orthogastropoda appeared to form a clade which was supported by unambiguous synapomorphies. These synapomorphies (a series of characteristics that appear in its members but not in the other forms it diverged from) were the identifying characteristics of the clade.\nSome of the characteristics were:\nTaxonomy.\nThe following is based on the somewhat out-dated taxonomy of the Gastropoda (Ponder &amp; Lindberg, 1997). For the most up-to-date system of gastropod taxonomy, please see Taxonomy of the Gastropoda (Bouchet &amp; Rocroi, 2005).\n\"Superorder Cocculiniformia \"\n\"Superorder incertae sedis (Hot Vent Taxa)\"\n\"Superorder Vetigastropoda \" (limpets)\n\"Superorder Neritaemorphi \"\n\"Superorder Caenogastropoda \"\n\"Superorder Heterobranchia \""}
{"id": "708923", "revid": "209266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708923", "title": "Conn Smythe", "text": "Constantine Falkland Cary Smythe MC (; February 1, 1895 \u2013 November 18, 1980) was a Canadian businessman, soldier and executive in ice hockey and horse racing. He was best known as the principal owner of the Toronto Maple Leafs of the National Hockey League (NHL) from 1927 to 1961 and as the builder of the Maple Leaf Gardens hockey arena. He first joined the Maple Leafs in 1927 when the Toronto NHL franchise was in financial trouble. Under the threat of being moved, he organized a partnership to buy the team and keep it in Toronto. It was at his instigation that the team became known as the Maple Leaf club. He would remain involved with the franchise until the 1960s. The club was very successful during his ownership and his name appears on the Stanley Cup eight times. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame as a builder. In his honour, the Gardens gave the NHL the Conn Smythe Trophy, given to the most valuable player of the Stanley Cup playoffs.\nOutside of hockey, Smythe was also a decorated soldier in World War I. He returned to serve in World War II, organizing his own artillery battery. He was severely injured, injuries he never fully recovered from. While in hospital, he publicly criticized the Canadian war effort and the lack of trained recruits, embarrassing the Canadian prime minister. He continued to be outspoken during his lifetime. He publicly opposed Canada's new flag and resigned from the Maple Leafs Gardens board when the Gardens held a Muhammad Ali boxing match, over Ali's refusal to serve for the U. S. Army in the Vietnam War.\nSmythe was a successful horse breeder and racing stable owner. His interest began as a youth, spending time at the track with his father. He bought his first horse in the 1920s and owned horses from then until he sold them to finance his regiment in World War II. He returned to breeding and racing horses in the 1950s and owned a stable and farm until his death. One of the horses he bred was \"Wonder Where\" which won Canadian Horse of the Year. In all, Smythe's horses won 145 stakes races. \nSmythe was a philanthropist, contributing to several Canadian charities and also helping in fund-raising. His efforts helped build several permanent facilities for disabled children, deaf persons and the blind. He set up The Conn Smythe Foundation private charity, which was later continued by his son Hugh and grandson Thomas. Smythe donated most of his estate to the Foundation, including his stable and farm.\nHe was married only once, to Irene Sands, marrying her while still in university. Together, they ran the C. Smythe Ltd sand and gravel business until her death in 1965. They had four children, one of whom, Stafford, continued the Smythe ownership of the club; their other son Hugh was a director of the Gardens and a successful doctor, and, for a time, the Maple Leafs' doctor. Stafford's son Thomas also worked at the Gardens. Hugh and Thomas would manage the Foundation after Conn's death in 1980.\nEarly years.\nSmythe was born on February 1, 1895, in Toronto to Albert Smythe, an Irish Protestant from County Antrim who immigrated to Canada in 1889, and Mary Adelaide Constantine, an English woman. Mary and Albert were married in the 1880s while immigrating to Canada, but their marriage was rocky and they did not live together for more than a few months at a time. Conn was the second of the couple's two children; he had a sister, Mary, five years older, who died due to illness in 1903. Smythe remembered his mother Mary, who was known as Polly, as pretty, a drinker, and troublemaker, while Albert was quiet, a vegetarian, and a devoted member of Madame Blavatsky's Theosophical movement.\nSmythe's first home was 51 McMillan Street, now known as Mutual Street, not far from the future site of Maple Leaf Gardens. The family was poor and moved several times during Smythe's youth, the size of lodgings depending on Albert Smythe's wages at the time. At one point, Albert and Conn moved to a house in Scarborough while Polly and Mary stayed on North Street (a section of today's Bay Street) downtown. Mary died in 1906, and Smythe attributed his lifelong teetotalism to his mother's drinking. At age eleven, Conn was christened, the occasion marking the first time that he insisted on the name \"Conn\" instead of his given name, Constantine. Albert and Conn became estranged after Albert began a new relationship with Jane Henderson. The two married in 1913 and had a daughter, Moira.\nSmythe attended high school at Upper Canada College, but disliked it and transferred to Jarvis Collegiate Institute after a year and a half. He developed his athleticism there, playing on the hockey, rugby football, and basketball teams, and playing on city championship teams in basketball and hockey in 1912. At the age of 16, Smythe met Irene Sands, his future wife, after a football game against Parkdale Collegiate Institute, which she attended. Albert Smythe wanted his son to attend university, but Conn defied his father, bolting at age 17 to become a homesteader on in Clute Township, near Cochrane, Ontario. After one summer building a home on the property only to have it destroyed by a devastating fire, Smythe returned home and enrolled in engineering studies at the University of Toronto in the fall of 1912. There he played hockey as a centre, captaining the Varsity Blues men's ice hockey team to the finals of the 1914 Ontario Hockey Association (OHA) junior championships and to the OHA junior championship the following year. The coach of the losing team in 1915 was Frank J. Selke, who years later would work for Smythe at Maple Leaf Gardens. Smythe also played on the University of Toronto football team.\nFirst World War.\nA week after winning the OHA championship in March 1915, Smythe and his eight teammates enlisted in the armed forces during World War I. He recalled in his memoirs that he and several classmates had tried to enlist at the beginning of the 1914\u201315 season, but were told to come back when they had beards. After securing a provisional rank of lieutenant with the 2nd (Ottawa) Battery, 8th Brigade, on July 17, he headed to the Royal School of Artillery in Kingston, Ontario, in August for five weeks of training. He made full lieutenant on September 11, and was able to get himself transferred to the 40th (Sportsmen's) Battery of Hamilton, organized by publishing figure Gordon Southam, son of William Southam. The unit, with Smythe as team manager, organized a team to compete in the OHA's senior league; they were one of four Toronto-based teams in the league in 1916. He played one game at centre, and then decided to replace himself with a better player. The team did not complete the season, as the 40th Battery went overseas in February 1916.\nThe Battery was ordered into the Ypres salient. On October 12, shelling found their position, killing Major Southam and Sergeant-Major Norm Harvie, temporarily making Smythe commander of the Battery. The Battery fought for nearly two months in the trenches near the Somme before being relieved. In February 1917, Smythe earned a Military Cross, when during an attack the Germans counter-attacked with grenades. Smythe ran into the fight and killed three Germans and helped several wounded Canadian soldiers back to safety. On March 5, 1917, Smythe was awarded the Military Cross for \"dispersing an enemy party at a critical time. Himself accounted for three of the enemy with his revolver.\" After an attack where several Canadians were killed because of what Smythe thought was poor planning by the Battery's Major, Smythe wanted out. Smythe transferred to the Royal Flying Corps in July 1917. One of his instructors was Billy Barker, who would later become the first president of the Toronto Maple Leafs. Smythe served as an airborne observer, directing artillery fire. Smythe was shot down by the Germans and captured on October 14, 1917; he was imprisoned by the Germans at Schweidnitz (Swidnica) in Upper Silesia. Smythe made two failed escape attempts and ended up in solitary confinement as a result. He was a POW until the end of the war. Smythe would later make light of his fourteen months in captivity \"We played so damned much bridge that I never played the game again.\"\nReturn to Toronto.\nFollowing the war, Smythe returned to Toronto. With his accrued Army salary and the proceeds from the sale of his homestead plot, he started a sand and gravel business in a partnership with Frank Angotti, who owned a paving business. To support the need for sand and gravel, Smythe bought land northwest of Toronto for a sand pit. He returned to the University of Toronto and finished his civil engineering degree in 1920, marrying Irene during the school year. Smythe and his paving business partner split, and Smythe retained the sand and gravel business. The company was renamed C. Smythe Limited and the company slogan was \"C. Smythe for sand,\" which he had painted on his trucks, the lettering in white on the blue of the trucks. Frank Selke, who had moved to Toronto, was one of Smythe's first employees in the business. Irene took sand and gravel orders over the phone while also caring for the couple's newborn son, Stafford. Smythe owned the business until 1961.\nIn the evenings, Smythe coached the University of Toronto varsity team, and it was through his coaching of this team that he became involved in the NHL. The team traveled regularly to the Boston area for games against local colleges, with great success. In 1926, Boston Bruins owner Charles Adams recommended Smythe to Col. John S. Hammond, who oversaw the new New York Rangers franchise for its owners, Madison Square Garden. Hammond hired Smythe as general manager and coach, and tasked him with putting together a team. But on October 27, 1926, before the Rangers had played a regular-season game, Hammond fired Smythe in favour of Lester Patrick. Smythe believed Hammond fired him because of his refusal to sign two-time NHL scoring champion Babe Dye, against Hammond's wishes. Smythe thought Dye was not a team player.\nSmythe applied to coach the Toronto St. Pats, but was rejected in favour of Mike Rodden. He continued coaching for the University of Toronto and took on a new senior team made up of University of Toronto players, called the Varsity Grads. The team won the Allan Cup and represented Canada at the 1928 Winter Olympics in St. Moritz the following year. Smythe refused to go when two Varsity Blues players he had promised could be part of the team were blocked by what he described as a \"pressure play\" from two Grads players to get relatives placed on the team instead. One of the players was Joe Sullivan, who years later became a Canadian Senator.\nAlthough Smythe was no longer a Rangers employee, Madison Square Garden president Tex Rickard invited him to the team's opening game at the arena, an invitation Smythe nearly turned down because he felt the Rangers had short-changed him (Hammond paid Smythe $7,500 to settle his contract, but Smythe felt he was owed $10,000). At the insistence of his wife Irene, they traveled to New York and attended the opener in Rickard's private box. When the Rangers won the game, surprising the Montreal Maroons, Rickard offered Smythe a vice-presidency with the club. Smythe turned Rickard down partly because of the disputed $2,500, although Rickard ordered Hammond to pay off the rest. On their return trip to Toronto, the Smythes visited Montreal, where Conn bet the $2,500 on a university football game between Toronto and McGill. He then bet the $5,000 he won on the Rangers to defeat the St. Pats in Toronto, winning again, turning the $2,500 into $10,000 in three days.\nSmythe forms the Maple Leafs.\nJ. P. Bickell, a part-owner of the St. Pats, contacted Smythe about coaching the team. However, Smythe told Bickell that he was more interested in buying the team, or at least a stake in the team. Not long after, the St. Pats were put up for sale, and majority owner Charles Querrie agreed in principle to sell the club for to a group headed by C. C. Pyle, which would have moved the team to Philadelphia. Bickell contacted Smythe and told him that if Smythe could raise , Bickell would not sell his share of the team and it would stay in Toronto. After persuading Querrie that civic pride was more important than money, Smythe put together a syndicate that included Bickell and several other investors that bought the St. Pats; Smythe invested of his own money. Soon after the sale closed on February 14, 1927, the new owners changed the St. Pats' name to the Toronto Maple Leafs.\nAt first, Smythe's name was kept in the background. However, when the Leafs promoted a public share offering to raise capital, they announced that \"one of the most prominent hockey coaches in Toronto\" would be taking over management of the club. That prominent coach turned out to be Smythe. He succeeded Querrie as the team's governor, and installed himself as general manager. He installed Alex Romeril as coach. For the next season (1927\u201328), Smythe changed the team's colours from green and white to their present blue and white. According to the Maple Leafs, the blue represents the Canadian skies, while white represents snow. They were also the same colours as those of his sand and gravel business trucks, as well as that of U of T, his alma mater. Smythe also took over as coach, a position he held for the next three seasons.\nSmythe developed a public image as a \"red-faced, pepper-pot\" with nicknames such as \"little corporal\" or \"little dictator.\" Smythe was not reluctant to chase players and referees on the rink and off. Smythe also developed feuds with opposing coaches and general managers. He used any tactic available to disrupt the opponent. He advertised in a Boston newspaper inviting people to watch \"a real hockey team, the Toronto Maple Leafs.\" After learning that Boston general manager Art Ross suffered from hemorrhoids, he gave Ross a bouquet of flowers with a note in Latin describing where he should shove the flowers.\nIn 1929, Smythe decided, in the midst of the Great Depression, that the Maple Leafs needed a new arena. The Arena Gardens seated 8,000 people, but the Maple Leafs were regularly playing to standing-room-only crowds of 9,000 customers. Smythe knew it would take over a million dollars to construct the building, and he got backing from the Sun Life insurance company for . He found a site owned by the T. Eaton Co. department store chain on Carlton Street, a site he selected because it was on a streetcar line. Smythe gave up the coaching position to concentrate on the arena project. The building started construction on June 1, 1931, and was ready on November 12, 1931, after five months. As part of a corporate reorganization, Maple Leaf Gardens Ltd. was founded that year to own both the team and the arena. The construction workers on the project received 20% of their pay in the form of Maple Leaf Gardens stock. Selke (who had union connections) and Smythe were successful in negotiating this payment method in exchange for using unionized workers.\nDuring the 1931\u201332 season (the Maple Leafs' first in their new arena), Smythe fired coach Art Duncan after five games and hired Dick Irvin to coach. Irvin promptly led the team to its first Stanley Cup under the Maple Leafs name, and the franchise's third overall. By 1940, Smythe believed that Irvin had taken the Leafs as far as he could, and decided to replace him with former Leafs captain Hap Day, who had retired as a player. Smythe also knew that he would be away due to World War II and felt that Irvin would not be tough enough without Smythe to back him up. Meanwhile, the Montreal Canadiens had had a dreadful ten-win season, and were looking for a new coach. At Smythe's suggestion, Irvin became the new coach of the Canadiens.\nThoroughbred horse racing.\nSmythe first became interested in horse racing as a boy, when he would take stories his father wrote at the track to the newspaper office downtown. Smythe started owning horses in the late 1920s, but he rarely had any success. One early purchase turned out to be one of his most famous. When Mrs. L. A. Livingston sold off her stable, he bought \"Rare Jewel\", a filly, for $250. The filly regularly ran last. The horse was eligible for the Coronation Futurity Stakes, one of the best two-year-old races. Smythe was full of blind hope, and on the trainer's advice, entered her in the race. The day of the race, both the trainer and his partner gave the horse some brandy, unknown to Smythe, who bet over $100 on \"Rare Jewel\". She won the race, a 100\u20131 longshot paying $214.40 on a $2 bet, besting future Queen's Plate winner \"Froth Blower\". Between the winnings from his bets and his portion of the winner's purse as horse owner, Smythe won more than $10,000 on that one race. Three weeks later, he put his windfall to work for the Maple Leafs by purchasing star defenceman King Clancy from the depression-strapped Ottawa Senators for $35,000. The purchase was only possible because of his gambling winnings, as the other Maple Leafs owners refused to pay the Senators' then-high price, and only agreed when Smythe volunteered to use his own money.\nSmythe continued to own horses through the 1930s, but he sold them in 1940, when he made plans to fight in the Second World War. He did not re-enter the racing business until 1954. In 1951, Smythe bought land for a farm in Caledon, Ontario, originally looking for a new location for a gravel pit. At first he kept only cattle, but in 1954 he decided to get back into owning race horses, in partnership with Larkin Maloney, and an area was set aside to keep horses. Smythe learned about the business and went into breeding, buying mares in foal from top thoroughbred lines, and hiring future Hall of Fame trainer Yonnie Starr.\nMaloney and Smythe's most famous horse \"Wonder Where\", also led to the breakup of the partnership. \"Wonder Where\", named by Maloney, was bred at Frank Selke's farm in Quebec and bought by Maloney and Smythe in 1957. In 1959, \"Wonder Where\" had an outstanding season, including winning the Canadian Oaks. The horse was voted Canadian Horse of the Year for the year and later, the filly was inducted in the Canadian Horse Racing Hall of Fame. The Wonder Where Stakes was established in honour of the horse in 1965, becoming one of the Canadian Triple Tiara races for fillies in Canada in 1995. After the outstanding year in 1959, Maloney wanted to continue racing \"Wonder Where\" and Smythe did not, concerned over some tendon trouble. The horse broke down in a race in Fort Erie, and the partnership dissolved after that.\nSmythe's horses won 145 stakes races during his lifetime, a record second only to E. P. Taylor in Canada. Smythe's stable won the Queen's Plate twice, the first in 1958 with \"Caledon Beau\" and the second in 1967 with \"Jammed Lovely\". In 1973, Smythe became a founding member of the Jockey Club of Canada. In 1977, he was inducted in the Canadian Horse Racing Hall of Fame. After his death, the Smythe stable was sold in 1981 to Gardiner Farms and Harlequin Ranches, for an estimated $2.5\u00a0million. Smythe's will gave the racing stable to the Conn Smythe Foundation, which as a charitable foundation, could not run a business. The new owners leased back the farm and stables. The only horse not in the sale was \"Jammed Lucky\", Smythe's favourite, which was given to Smythe's grandson Tommy. The horse had run for Smythe in the 1961 Queen's Plate as one of the favourites and broke a bone in his right foot during the race, but finished the race in eighth place. In 1981, \"Jammed Lucky\" was 23 years old and had sired 25 winning foals to that point.\nSecond World War and the conscription crisis.\nIn the Second World War, at age 45, Smythe again served in the Canadian Army. Initially, he was a captain in charge of a troop within the Canadian Officers Training Corps, based at the University of Toronto. In 1941, along with Colonel Richard Greer, he formed the 30th Battery, a sportsmen's anti-aircraft battery that was part of the 6th LAA Regiment, RCA (Royal Canadian Artillery), Canadian Active Army. Smythe was made acting major and Officer Commanding. He was offered a higher rank to become the army's sports officer, but turned it down. After first serving on Vancouver Island to defend against Japanese attack, the Battery embarked in September 1942 to England. After being stationed in England for nearly two years, Smythe and his unit were sent to France in July 1944, where within three weeks he was badly wounded when the Germans bombed an ammunition depot. His spinal cord injury would mean that for the rest of his life he would walk with a limp and suffer bowel and urinary tract problems. He was sent back to Canada in September on a hospital ship to recover further at Chorley Park Hospital in Toronto.\nSmythe, who had seen that the army was using improperly trained troops due to a lack of soldiers, interviewed other soldiers during his time in the hospital, compiling a record over which to confront Mackenzie King. King had developed an official government policy of voluntary service for political reasons and Smythe saw the detrimental effect it had on the Army. Volunteers tried to press home service troops into active service to assist and augment the undermanned troops overseas. From his bed in the Chorley Park Hospital, Smythe dictated a statement to \"The Globe and Mail\" newspaper, which printed it on its front page on September 19, 1944:\nSmythe was accused of acting solely for political gain. The publisher of \"The Globe and Mail\" at the time was prominent Conservative George McCullagh, and Smythe was friends with Ontario Conservative Premier George Drew. McCullagh and Drew may have used Smythe for their political ends to defeat King. The issue of lack of reinforcements was well known within the Army and Smythe did not make any complaints to senior officers while in active service. Despite being criticized, Smythe kept up his public criticism in the newspapers. After James Ralston, Canada's defence minister, traveled to Italy, he saw for himself the shortage of skilled reinforcements. Ralston, who King did not trust, was replaced with Andrew McNaughton, who was against conscription. However, even King saw the need to send troops for the Canadian Army and he ordered 17,500 reserve troops to Europe in November 1944, which started to arrive in January 1945\nMajority owner of the Maple Leafs.\nWhile Smythe was away, a committee, headed by Ed Bickle, Bill MacBrien, and Selke ran Maple Leaf Gardens Ltd., with Selke as acting general manager. Upon his return from the military, Smythe found himself in the middle of a power struggle over the presidency of the company. Smythe suspected that MacBrien, a member of the board of directors, wanted to succeed Bickle as president and make Selke general manager in his own right. Smythe wanted to be president and asked Selke for his support. Selke equivocated, and the relationship between the two long-time friends turned acrimonious, leading to Selke's resignation in May 1946. Two months later, Selke became head of hockey operations for the Canadiens and manager of their home arena, the Montreal Forum, succeeding Tommy Gorman.\nWith the support of J. P. Bickell and the help of a loan from Toronto stockbroker and Gardens shareholder Percy Gardiner, Smythe bought controlling interest in Maple Leaf Gardens Ltd., and was thus able to install himself as president on November 19, 1947. However, Smythe had been the face of the franchise for more than two decades before then. Acknowledging this, Andy Lytle, sports editor of the \"Toronto Star\", said the appointment \"simply makes official what he has been for years in actuality\u00a0... Smythe and the Gardens are synonymous terms.\" MacBrien was made chairman. Smythe repaid his debt to Gardiner by 1960.\nSmythe oversaw one of hockey's greatest dynasties when Toronto won six Stanley Cups in ten seasons between 1942 and 1951. Hap Day coached the team to five of those Cups and was assistant general manager for the sixth. He was named in a poll of Canadian sports editors the \"most dominating personality in any capacity in sports\" for 1949. The Maple Leafs were masters of playoff hockey; their regular-season performances were usually fair to good or just good enough to make the playoffs. Smythe was known for caring little about gaudy regular-season records. However, he did care about winning the Cup, because \"winning sells tickets.\"\nIn 1950, due to his health, Smythe had to reduce his involvement with the team. He promoted Day to assistant general manager under Smythe, Day handling most duties, although Smythe was involved on occasion. Former player Joe Primeau took over from Day as head coach. The club would win the Cup again in 1951. However, Montreal and Detroit were becoming the pre-eminent teams and the Leafs spent most of the 1950s struggling under three different coaches. Smythe gave up the manager role to Day on February 1, 1955, having felt his hockey \"powers\" were diminishing. However, just after the Leafs were eliminated from the playoffs in 1957, Smythe told the media that it had been \"a season of failure\" and that he did not know if the 55-year-old Day would be available for the next season. Day felt Smythe had cut his legs out from under him and resigned. Smythe initially promoted coach Howie Meeker to be the manager, but fired him before the season started. Smythe would manage the team for one more season.\nCiting his increased interest in horse racing and philanthropy, Smythe turned team operations over to a seven-person committee, headed by his son Stafford. Newspaper owner John W. H. Bassett was another member of the committee, as was Percy Gardiner's son, George. The committee became known as the \"Silver Seven\" because the seven had been \"born with a silver spoon in their mouths.\" Initially, all members were in their 30s or early 40s, but that changed before the end of the year when 54-year-old Harold Ballard, president of the Toronto Marlboros, was appointed to the committee to fill a vacancy. In 1958, the committee hired Punch Imlach as general manager; Imlach would later take over the coaching job as well.\nSmythe remained involved in league affairs. The Chicago and New York franchises were in poor shape, icing poor teams to poor attendance. The NHL stepped in and guaranteed the teams annually in revenue-sharing to stabilize the teams. Smythe justified this as important to the league's overall survival.\nSmythe was an NHL owner during the era before the advent of a players' union. Between the 1942\u201343 and 1966-67 seasons, the NHL consisted of only six teams (the Original Six), and players who failed to comply with team orders could easily be demoted to the minor leagues and replaced. Players who did not follow Smythe's rules were traded or sent to the minors. Two players, Danny Lewicki and John McCormack, were both demoted to the minors for getting married without Smythe's permission. According to Smythe, the players' lives were in turmoil and couldn't keep their minds on hockey.\nWhile the pay for an NHL player was relatively good, it still left many players looking for other jobs during the off-season, while the owners were all wealthy men. These conditions led to two efforts to organize a union, which Smythe was vehemently against. From 1957 onwards, Smythe, along with other owners, including James D. Norris of the Chicago Black Hawks and his half-brother Bruce Norris of the Detroit Red Wings, were accused of union busting activities related to Ted Lindsay's attempt to form an NHL Players Association. Smythe's role in those affairs are dramatized in the movie \"Net Worth\". Jimmy Thomson, who was acting captain of the Maple Leafs when the players started to organize, was singled out by Smythe. Smythe detailed all the monies Thomson had been paid by the organization going back to junior, while arranging for Thomson to be left off the team. He also allegedly called Thomson a traitor and publicly blamed him for the team's poor season. Thomson finally announced to the press that he would never play again for the Maple Leafs, and he and Tod Sloan were traded away to Chicago. The NHL owners eventually agreed to make some concessions to the players, such as contributing to the players' pensions.\nPost-Maple Leafs years.\nThough the Silver Seven made most decisions involving the Leafs, Smythe was not a hands-off owner and was constantly fighting with his son. Stafford commented: \"My father has always given me lots of rope. When I was thirty, I was ten years ahead of everybody. But at forty, I'm ten years behind everybody.\" Finally, in 1961, Stafford resigned from the committee and this spurred Conn. After four years of fighting, he offered to sell his shares to Stafford and in November 1961, Smythe sold 45,000 of his 50,000 shares in Maple Leaf Gardens Ltd. to a partnership of his son, Ballard, and Bassett for $2.3\u00a0million\u2014a handsome return on his investment of 34 years earlier. Years later, Smythe claimed that he thought the sale was only to Stafford, and was furious to learn that he'd brought on Ballard and Bassett as partners. According to this account, Smythe had hoped that Stafford would eventually keep the Gardens for his son Tommy.\nAs part of the arrangement, Smythe resigned as president and managing director, nominating Stafford to succeed him. At Stafford's instigation, the board then granted Smythe a $15,000 annual allowance, an office at the Gardens, and a car and driver for the rest of his life. Stafford, Ballard, and Bassett then nominated Smythe as chairman of the board. Smythe stood down as governor of the Leafs on February 5, 1962\u2013a position he had held since 1927.\nIn 1964, Smythe opposed the plan of Liberal Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson to replace the traditional Canadian flag with a completely new design. He wrote to Pearson, whom he had known since the 1920s: \"In the Olympic Games, the whole world is represented and when Canada sometimes wins a Gold Medal everybody knows, when the Red Ensign is raised to the masthead, that Canada has won.\" Smythe disagreed that a new flag would help to unify the country, and switched his support to John Diefenbaker and the Progressive Conservatives. Smythe wrote over 300 letters to Members of Parliament. In 1965, he unsuccessfully lobbied for the Red Ensign to be flown at the Gardens instead of the new Flag of Canada. Ballard ordered the new flag flown because calls were more than three to one in favour of the new flag.\nIn March 1966, Smythe sold his remaining shares in Maple Leaf Gardens Ltd. and resigned from the board of directors after a Muhammad Ali boxing match was scheduled for the Gardens. He found Ali's refusal to serve in the U.S. Army during the Vietnam War to be offensive because, as he put it in his autobiography, \"The Gardens was founded by men \u2013 sportsmen \u2013 who fought for their country. It is no place for those want to evade conscription in their own country. The Gardens was built for many things, but not for picking up things that no one else wants.\" He also said that by accepting the fight, Gardens owners had \"put cash ahead of class.\"\nSmythe stayed away from the Gardens and took shots at the ownership in the press, stating that he had been \"traded for $35,000 and a black Muslim minister.\" The seats at the Gardens had been replaced with new, narrower ones, and Smythe commented that \"only a slim, young man could sit in them but the prices are so high that only a fat rich man could afford them.\" He continued to be sought out for his views on hockey. When the NHL expanded to 12 teams from six in 1967, Smythe openly opposed the expansion on the basis that it would make for inferior hockey: \"We had the best players in the world split between six teams, and hockey was always worth the money.\"\nBy this time, Conn and Stafford were not on speaking terms, and it fell to Tom Smythe, Stafford's son, to mediate between the two. Stafford built a new office suite at the Gardens for Conn, and the feud was over. After Stafford was charged with fraud in 1971 and became ill with a stomach ulcer, Conn was with him in hospital when he died. According to Conn, Stafford's last words to him were \"see dad, I told you they wouldn't put me in jail.\"\nOther accomplishments and honours.\nBeing aware of the injuries suffered by veterans, Smythe helped establish and was a founding director of the Canadian Paraplegic Association in 1945 (the predecessor of Spinal Cord Injury Ontario and other spinal cord injury organizations). The Association had its offices and stored its incoming batches of wheelchairs at Maple Leaf Gardens. Charity hockey games to benefit the Association were held at the Gardens.\nHe became heavily involved in the Ontario Society for Crippled Children (now the Easter Seals). Smythe joined the organization in 1945 when it was $10,000 in debt. He paid off the debt and helped launch the first Easter Seals campaign, which raised $150,000. In later years, Smythe helped organize the financing and construction of their Variety Club Village complex in Toronto. \nIn 1960, after paying off his debt to Percy Gardiner, Smythe set up The Conn Smythe Foundation, a registered charity which provides grants to charities in need in the Toronto area. Smythe's direction to the Foundation was to not give money to charities that paid expenses to volunteers out of donations. The foundation was operated by Conn, his children and Hap Day. Day continued to help with the Foundation until his death in 1990. Before he died, Conn arranged for his son Hugh and grandson Thomas Smythe to continue the Foundation after his death. Upon his death, Smythe's estate contributed to the Foundation.\nSmythe supervised the construction of the Hockey Hall of Fame building in Toronto in 1961. He served as the Hall's chairman for several years, but resigned in June 1971 when Busher Jackson was posthumously elected into the Hall. Smythe said that it made him sick to think of Jackson alongside such Leafs as \"Apps, Primeau, Conacher, Clancy and Kennedy. If the standards are going to be lowered I'll get out as chairman of the board.\" Jackson was notorious for his off-ice lifestyle of drinking and broken marriages. Frank Selke, head of the selection committee, defended the selection on the belief that a man should not be shut out \"because of the amount of beer he drank.\"\nMaple Leaf Gardens honoured Smythe's contribution to the game by donating the Conn Smythe Trophy to the NHL in 1964. It is presented to the Most Valuable Player in the Stanley Cup playoffs. The league also named one of its four divisions, the Smythe Division, after him prior to the 1974\u201375 season. The division existed until league expansion and realignment after the 1992\u201393 season.\nIn 1975, at the age of 80, Smythe organized the financing and building of the Ontario Community Centre for the Deaf (now The Bob Rumball Canadian Centre of Excellence for the Deaf), which opened in 1979 on Bayview Avenue in Toronto. One of his final philanthropic efforts was to help in the fund-raising efforts to build the Canadian National Institute for the Blind's new facility, also on Bayview Avenue in Toronto. After his death, his body was at rest at the centre until his funeral.\nIn 1980, Smythe was nominated for the Order of Canada. Smythe himself felt that \"someone with a long memory or even a short one\" would vote against his membership. The Order is only given to living persons and Smythe died that year, making him ineligible in any case.\nSmythe Park and Recreation Centre in Toronto is located on the site of his old gravel pit. The surrounding neighbourhood is named Rockcliffe-Smythe, partly a sub-division Smythe built for war veterans. Smythe made provisions for a portion of the lands of the sub-division to be reserved for the centre. A street north of Eglinton Avenue, west of Markham Road, is named \"Conn Smythe Drive\" in his honour.\nHis autobiography, \"Conn Smythe: If You Can't Beat 'Em in the Alley\", written with Scott Young, was published posthumously in 1981. The title was taken from Smythe's credo, \"If you can't beat 'em in the alley, you can't beat 'em on the ice.\" In Smythe's memoir he describes it as the most misunderstood remark he ever made. Rather than meaning that his players should go out and bully the opposition, he meant the opposite; that his players should refuse to be bullied by the opposition.\nConn Smythe was inducted into the Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in 1998.\nFamily and personal life.\nSmythe married Irene Sands on March 17, 1920, at Central Methodist Church. The couple lived in an apartment on St. Clair Avenue, then moved to the Runnymede area of Toronto to be close to Smythe's sand and gravel business, which operated a gravel pit north-west of Jane Street and St. Clair. In 1927, after their first two children, Stafford and Miriam, were born, they moved to the Baby Point enclave of Toronto. \nIrene and Conn had two other children, Hugh and Patricia. Hugh became a doctor and served as the Maple Leaf's team doctor from 1949 to 1969. He later became a specialist in rheumatology, a director of Maple Leaf Gardens, and chairman of The Conn Smythe Foundation. Hugh died in 2012. Patricia died due to an allergic attack at the age of ten, in 1945.\nStafford started in business by joining his father's sand and gravel business as a teen. He worked at the Gardens, eventually becoming a part-owner before dying of complications from a bleeding ulcer in 1971. Stafford's son Tommy joined the Gardens as a youth, apprenticing as a stickboy. He eventually became president of Doug Laurie Sporting Goods at Maple Leaf Gardens. Miriam married Jack Hoult, who also worked at the Gardens. Among Hoult's duties, Hoult reminded season ticket holders who had not dressed up to Conn's standards at games.\nSmythe's father died in 1947 at 86 years of age. Smythe had had a rapprochement with his father, seeing him at Christmas and at times when Albert came to Toronto to preach. After his father's death, Smythe joined the Theosophical Society and remained a member for life. In 1977, Smythe explained why he was a theosophist: \"It's because a theosophist teaches you that ya can't get away with anything in this life anyway.\"\nIrene Smythe was diagnosed with cancer after Christmas 1963. The illness progressed and Irene died on June 20, 1965. Due to the amount of pain Irene endured, Conn and Irene considered using a revolver to end her life, but near the end she told Conn that it was a \"coward's way out\" and she endured. After the amount of pain Irene endured, Smythe called her death a \"blessed release.\" Smythe set up a foundation at the University of Toronto in her name, which opened the Irene Eleanor Smythe Pain Clinic at Toronto General Hospital.\nOn April 20, 1978, Smythe suffered a heart attack. He spent a month in the hospital, and got out in time to spend May 18 at Woodbine, where he had four horses racing that day. His health continued to deteriorate and Conn realized that he was dying. He wrote his last will on September 11, 1980. Smythe died at the age of 85 on November 18, 1980 at his home on Baby Point.\nSmythe gave away much of his estate to charity. He arranged for The Conn Smythe Foundation, under Tommy Smythe's direction, to own and run the stable for at least six months, and he made gifts of money, annuities, and his trophies to relatives, friends and employees. Hap Day was given Smythe's share of the sand and gravel business. As the Foundation was a charitable institution, it could not own a business, so the stable had to be liquidated within six months. Except for \"Jammed Lucky\", the rest of the 58-horse stable was sold for million in March 1981 to Gardiner Farms."}
{"id": "708925", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708925", "title": "AAGPBL", "text": ""}
{"id": "708926", "revid": "198939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708926", "title": "Katajanokka", "text": "Katajanokka (; ) is a neighbourhood of Helsinki, Finland, with around 5,000 inhabitants in 2023. The district is located adjacent to the immediate downtown area, though in the first major town plan for Helsinki from the mid-18th century, the area fell outside the fortifications planned to encircle the city.\nOriginally, Katajanokka was a headland of the Helsinki peninsula but is now technically an island, as a small canal was dug across the base of the headland in the 19th century. There are four bridges across the canal connecting Katajanokka with the Helsinki Market Square and Aleksanterinkatu area in mainland Helsinki.\nBuildings in Katajanokka include the former Katajanokka prison (now a Tribute Portfolio hotel by Marriott), the Uspenski Cathedral, the Katajanokka Casino, Wanha Satama, the Stora Enso head office designed by Alvar Aalto, the building of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Katajanokka Terminal used by Viking Line. Katajanokka forms a central part of the South Harbour. In the 19th and 20th centuries Katajanokka was known as an important hub for goods transport and even became the largest import harbour in Finland, but since then its role as a residential area has increased. Katajanokka is served by the Helsinki tram lines 4 and 5.\nKatajanokka is one of the most distinguished neighbourhoods in Helsinki. Katajanokka's residents have included former Finnish President (from 1982 to 1994) Mauno Koivisto, composer Einojuhani Rautavaara and author-artist Tove Jansson.\nOverview.\nThe south side of Katajanokka is dominated by a passenger harbour which is frequented by large cruiseferries traveling between Helsinki, Stockholm, Mariehamn, Tallinn and Rostock. The rest of the district comprises co-operative apartment buildings and several small parks. The western part of the residential area, known as the \"Old Side\" of Katajanokka, is an upscale neighborhood and a well-preserved example of early 20th century Art Nouveau architecture, though up until the mid-19th century \u2013 while the centre of Helsinki was being filled with stone buildings \u2013 the area was essentially still a wooden shanty town. The eastern part was for a long time a closed military area containing a naval base and shipyard, later a commercial shipyard. It was redeveloped in the 1970s and 1980s into a mainly residential zone, often referred to as the \"New Side\" of Katajanokka. The new residential area is considered an exceptional example of modern town planning. A major part of the project was the conversion and extension of the old Russian naval barracks to house the Finnish foreign ministry.\nThe northern shore of Katajanokka still serves as a base for the Finnish coast guard, Helsinki maritime police as well as the Finnish icebreaker fleet.\nLandmarks of Katajanokka include the Russian Orthodox Cathedral, also known as Uspenski Cathedral (architect Alexey Gornostaev, 1868), the Merikasarmi complex of the Foreign Ministry (architect Carl Ludvig Engel, 1825) and the Finnish headquarters of Stora Enso (architect Alvar Aalto, 1962; the most controversial of Aalto's works).\nAnother famous building in Katajanokka is the former district prison of Southern Finland. The old prison dates back to 1837, and functioned as a prison until 2002. The prison underwent an extensive interior renovation to convert the cells of the prison into hotel rooms, with sets of two or three cells combined to make up the current hotel rooms. The Best Western Premier Hotel Katajanokka opened in May 2007 with 106 guest rooms. Renovations cost a reported 15\u00a0million euro. As a historic building, strict limits were imposed on the redevelopment due to the strict regime of protection for historically significant buildings that is in effect in Finland. Thus, as a hotel, the exterior of the building has been preserved, as has the central corridor of the old prison and even the old prison wall. A restaurant at the lowest level of the hotel has attempted to keep much of the character of the old prison alive. However, an actual former prisoner told a Finnish newspaper that the supposed \"prison cutlery\" is very different from what the prison actually used: for example, prisoners never drank out of tin cups.\nDuring the development of Katajanokka in the 1970s and 1980s, many old red brick industrial buildings were spared by converting them for public uses, such as a primary school and an indoors sports arena. There was controversy over the demolition of the former cadet school of the Russian navy, built in the early 20th century. Vacated by the Finnish military in the 1980s, the building survived, with various uses, mainly as a cultural centre. In the late 1990s, the city of Helsinki announced that it was going to demolish the building to build a new apartment building in its place. This caused huge protests, and the demolition was put off for almost a decade, mainly because of opposition from local inhabitants, and the Green League party.\nThe navy school building was finally demolished in autumn 2006. However, additional problems resulted: Contrary to what the city of Helsinki and the architecture bureau responsible for the new building had thought, there was no solid rock bottom underneath the old building, but only scattered rocks here and there. Because the original building had stood there since Czarist Russia, no original construction plans were available, and therefore the new plans had to be redone from scratch.\nThe local community organisation of Katajanokka is called \"Katajanokkaseura\". The organization publishes an annual regional magazine, \"Katajanokan kaiku\" (Finnish for \"The Echo of Katajanokka\").\nKatajanokan ymp\u00e4rijuoksu.\nThere is an annual running event called the \"Katajanokan ymp\u00e4rijuoksu\" (\"Skattuden runt\" in Swedish), open for everyone who lives in Katajanokka or has relatives living there. The running event has several categories according to age and sex. Children have separate categories for boys and girls, and are divided into two or three age groups. Adults (which also allows teenagers) have only one category, but results are separate for men and women.\nThe length of the running varies according to category. Toddlers run once around the inside of a walled-in sporting field. Schoolchildren run around the entire sporting area, younger children once, older children twice. Adults and teenagers run around half of the entire Katajanokka district.\nThere are no monetary prizes for the event, but winners get medals, and the winner of the adults category gets a trophy. Results are also published in the annual \"Katajanokan kaiku\" magazine.\nHistory.\nThe area of Katajanokka was originally mostly forest. In the 17th century there was an ironworks on the northern shore of the area, and there was a grain storage magazine on the Laukkasaari island (Swedish: L\u00f6kholmen) to the south of the area. The eastern part consisted of pasture grounds for the bourgeoisie.\nUrban settlement of Helsinki expanded from what is now the Senate Square to Katajanokka already in the 18th century. In the 1749 zoning plan by Augustin Ehrensv\u00e4rd Katajanokka was an important part of the defense wall surrounding the city as the peninsula had an important strategic value. This zoning plan was never implemented, and fishing families started moving to Katajanokka.\nThe outskirts settlements formed on the peninsula remained mostly untouched for decades even after the rest of Helsinki had been completely rebuilt according to the zoning plan made by Johan Albrecht Ehrenstr\u00f6m in the early 19th century. The Katajanokka canal separating Katajanokka from the mainland and connecting the South and North Harbours of Helsinki with each other, already proposed in Ehrenstr\u00f6m's plan, was ultimately only built in 1844.\nName.\nThe name \"Katajanokka\" literally means \"Juniper Point\" but the connection with junipers is just a coincidence resulting from a mistranslation.\nThe neighbourhood was originally known in the 17th century by the Swedish name \"Estn\u00e4s Skatan\" (\"Estn\u00e4s Point\"). The Finnish-speaking population did not understand Swedish, so the word \"skata\" (\"point\") became \"kataja\" (\"juniper\").\nThe Swedish name Skat Udden can be found from a 1775 map, while the Finnish name Katajanokka was first mentioned in the \"Suometar\" newspaper in 1856.\nBarracks.\nFrom the 1810s to the 1830s barracks buildings designed by Carl Ludvig Engel and Anders Fredrik Granstedt for the use of the Russian military were built on the eastern tip of Katajanokka. In 1831 the barracks were taken into use by the First marine crew of Finland, which also caused the name of the barracks to be established as Merikasarmi (\"Marine barracks\") instead of the Katajanokka barracks. This branch of the military was disestablished in the 1880s when the Grand Duchy of Finland introduced conscription. After this, the area became the base of the Russian Baltic fleet.\nAfter Finland became independent the garrison moved to the Finnish Defence Forces. It hosted the Helsinki navy station and military station (until 1958), the broadcast station of the radio battalion (in the 1920s) and the Valmet docks until the middle 1970s. The command of the Finnish Navy was located in a red brick building built in the 1880s until 1983 and the Guard Jaeger Regiment used the barracks in the 1960s. The deteriorated barracks buildings were renovated and restored for the use of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs from 1984 to 1989. New side buildings on either side of the old artillery courtyard were also built at the same time. A gate dating to 1776 was left as part of one of the side buildings. It is part of the artillery magazine built at the same time as the Suomenlinna fortress. Also a copy of the western officers' barracks was built on the eastern side of the barracks according to Engel's original plan.\nZoning plan.\nUp to the 19th century, most of the buildings on the western side of Katajanokka were old wooden buildings built in the 18th century, already badly deteriorated, and warehouses. Exceptions to this included the Uspenski Cathedral built in 1868, the building of the Mint of Finland (1836), the Helsinki County Prison located near the garrison and some apartment buildings built in the very end of the century. Katajanokka had been left outside the city's zoning plan. During the 19th century there were several attempts to redesign the area as a residential neighbourhood. Katajanokka finally became a subject of central interest in the 1870s. The zoning plan in the area was confirmed in 1895. According to it, the southern shore of the peninsula was reserved for a harbour and the area north to it as a residential area. The tip of the peninsula remained in the use of the garrison.\nA sudden growth in ship traffic to Helsinki was in dire need of more space, and Katajanokka was an ideal location for a new cargo harbour: it was easily accessible from the open sea and the water on its southwestern corner was deep enough. The city engineer J. Condrad D. Reuter fixed and amended the zoning plan made by Ernst Lohmann, and the city expropriated the small wooden houses in the area. The old rental contracts of the lots were no longer renewed.\nIn 1879 Theodor Tallqvist was given the task of making a new zoning plan with the aim to fit the southern part of Katajanokka better to the needs of seafaring and commerce. Tallqvist criticised the previous zoning plan heavily because it aimed to implement other recreation activities as well as the harbour activity; Tallqvist thought that the city needed to put commerce and industry above all other needs. Tallqvist used the harbours of Gothenburg, Copenhagen and Hamburg as inspiration. Tallqvist's plan was completed in 1882 but its implementation had to wait for the Helsinki harbour rail to be built. According to the plan, the coastal area to the south of the Kruunuvuorenkatu street was reserved for the harbour and the area to the north of it was reserved for residential use. The tip of the peninsula remained in use for the garrison. The plan did not include much in the way of aesthetics, and it included hardly any parks or lawns. Planning residential blocks in connection to the harbour was unusual. The reason for this has been seen to have been that the middle part of Katajanokka was too hilly for the use of the harbour, while the harbour could be extended to the sea by filling in more land.\nIn 1894, in connection to the construction of the pier, Katajanokka was connected to Laukkasaari with filled-in land. In the same year, the engineer Herman Norrm\u00e9n used Tallqvist's suggestion for his final zoning plan, which was confirmed in February 1895. Norrm\u00e9n added more filled-in land to Tallqvist's plan and removed the railway turntables and the extension of the harbour rail to Pohjoisranta, from where Tallqvist had intended it to go to the Helsinki Central railway station passing to the north of the Kaisaniemi botanical gardens. The architect Lars Sonck criticised the Katajanokka zoning plan saying it would make the area into a \"jumble\" where potential recreation areas would be surrounded by piers, magazines and military buildings.\nOther building history.\nA number of brick warehouses were built in the harbour area. The neighbouring residential area, the \"old side\" of Katajanokka, was mostly built during one decade in the early 20th century. The buildings in the area form a rare harmonious Art Nouveau architectural entity. For example the architects Gesellius, Lindgren, Saarinen designed three of the houses: the first to be completed was the Tallberg house, whose design was the trio's first competition victory. Katajanokka started becoming a residential area for the wealthy population, especially merchants and government officials.\nMany corporate head offices were located near the harbour, such as the head office of the Kesko group (1939) and an office of Paulig. Warehouses were built for the Cooperative Wholesales Store and for the Central Finnish Cooperative Society. The Paulig coffee roastery advanced the food industry in the area. It was founded in 1904 and stayed in business until the late 1960s.\nIn the 1930s there was a suggestion to build a bridge from Katajanokka to Korkeasaari. There was also a suggestion to fill in the Katajanokka canal.\nRebuilding of a couple of houses destroyed in World War II or unbuilt lots has been done in accordance with the historical surroundings.\nOn the western side of Katajanokka is the Stora Enso headquarters designed by the academic Alvar Aalto (1962), a building clad in white marble, inspired by Italian renaissance palaces. It is visible as an ending to the Pohjoisesplanadi street from the Market Square, although a distinctive feature of the building is that it sort of lacks a frontal facade. The decorative red brick Norrm\u00e9n house built in 1897 had been demolished to make room for Aalto's building. There has been intense debate for several decades about whether Aalto's building fits in with the Market Square milieu and the cityscape dominated by the Uspenski Cathedral. When a white office building for the use of the development assistance department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was built near Aalto's building in 1993, the buildings have been seen as supporting each other and forming their own clear-bordered architectural entity.\nIn 1913 the so-called Chapel of Peace was built at the lot of the Uspenski Cathedral to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Treaty of Fredrikshamn. It was seen as a symbol of Russian oppression and in 1919 nationalistic students covered it with tar. It was impossible to get the tar off the rock surface, so the building was dismantled. In the 1960s an air raid shelter was built underneath the Uspenski Cathedral.\nThe eastern tip of Katajanokka.\nThe buildings on the eastern tip surrounding the Merikasarmi building, in the so-called \"new side\", consisted already in the 1920s of various buildings related to warehouse, workshop and dock activities. The Katajanokka Airport used by Aero Oy (now known as Finnair) was also located on the southern shore of the area, serving as an airport for route flights from 1924 to 1936. When the navy garrison and the military harbour had moved to Upinniemi and the Valmet dock had moved to Vuosaari, most of the old warehouse and industrial buildings were dismantled. The zoning plan designed by the architectural trio Vilhelm Helander, Pekka Pakkala and Mikael Sundman was confirmed in 1977 and from 1977 to 1986 a total of 21 new apartment buildings were built in the area. The last of the free lots were built from 2006 to 2009. The zoning plan sought to return to the tightly-built urban space in a contrast to the earlier suburban type of construction, which has later been seen as a turning point in Finnish city design. The plan was also praised for taking the architectural and cultural history of the surrounding area into account. Open spaces were sought to be measured in regard of the actual number of visitors. However, because of design norms, the building efficiency remained lower than that of the old part. The red brick facades were ordered to be laid in place, even though this was during the golden age of element construction. A large number of the houses were designed as rental or Hitas houses, which caused a restriction on the cost of construction. For example parking had to be done on ground level. In the latest buildings completed in 2007 parking is handled underground.\nHarbour.\nIn the late 19th century, the southern shore of Katajanokka was built into a cargo traffic harbour, which was part of the South Harbour. The Katajanokka harbour became the most modern harbour in Finland. The Helsinki harbour rail, leading from the VR warehouses south of the T\u00f6\u00f6l\u00f6nlahti bay along the city's coastline to the Katajanokka harbour, was built near the Old Market Hall in 1894. The rail reached Katajanokka in the next year. A large railway yard was built in the harbour with tracks going between the warehouses. One track reached all the way to the eastern tip. New tracks were still being built from 1966 to 1967. The harbour was later changed into a passenger traffic harbour.\nThe last of the fourteen tripodal cranes on Katajanokka were built in 1959. After this, the Katajanokka harbour could at some times use two cranes for each hatch on a cargo ship. One of the cranes was unloading cargo from the SS \"Niobe\" when a chain of cargo carriages crashed into one of the crane's legs at a spot where the crane tracks and the railway tracks crossed. The crane fell down and was completely destroyed, but its driver suffered no injuries. The last four harbour cranes in Katajanokka were dismantled in January 1986.\nThe harbour activity also had side effects. From the 19th century to the middle 20th century Katajanokka was an area of ill repute, where illegal sales of liquor and prostitution were often practised. For a long time, the image of the northern shore of Katajanokka was dominated by large warehouses belonging to a freight forwarder. These have later been renovated into the use of restaurants and caf\u00e9s. The northern shore used to also host a garbage pier, where excrement was loaded into barges which took it to the countryside to act as fertiliser for the country fields. However, sometimes garbage transporters dumped their cargo right into the sea.\nThe cargo harbour had become unprofitable, and the central location of Katajanokka made it a poor choice for cargo traffic. Rail transport to the South Harbour and Katajanokka ended on 30 April 1980. The last four harbour cranes were dismantled in January 1986. Traffic on the cargo harbour rail decreased as the South Harbour became mostly a harbour for car ferries. Car ferry traffic started on 9 July 1974 by the ship MS \"Viking 5\" to Stockholm, Sweden. The site of the old harbour rail yard now hosts a wide avenue called Katajanokanlaituri, and many old warehouse buildings along it have been renovated into hotels and conference centres.\nGuarding the harbour area in Katajanokka was improved on 3 May 1994 to improve passport control and customs activity. All persons present at the harbour area had to have an identity document with a photograph with them. In early May 1997 the gate control of the entire South Harbour was transferred over to a security company.\nShipyard.\nFrom 1945 to 1970 the Valmet shipyard on the eastern part of Katajanokka built about 160 ships, of which some were sent as war reparations to the Soviet Union. The shipyard employed about a thousand people and caused significant traffic past the residential blocks. The crampedness of Katajanokka placed limits on how the activity could be improved and production volume be increased. In the end Valmet had to find a new place for the shipyard. A new shipyard was opened in Vuosaari in 1974 and the Katajanokka shipyard was discontinued in 1977. The last ship launched from the shipyard was the tanker MT \"Tebostar\" on 26 April 1974. There was a scrapyard for ships for some time at the site.\nIcebreakers.\nThe Finnish icebreakers, with the exception of the multiple-use icebreakers, still spend their summers at the Katajanokka shore. Multiple-use icebreakers need to use the harbour only for installing and storage of equipment. This service is offered by the Kotka harbour. After the Valmet dock activity in Katajanokka had gradually moved to Vuosaari the old equipment pier was leased for the use of the icebreakers on 24 March 1975. Individual icebreakers had been spending their summers at the shores of Katajanokka also before this. For example in summer 1971 an old system was kept in force, where two icebreakers were at J\u00e4tk\u00e4saari, three at Hietalahti and three near the Valmet dock in Katajanokka. The icebreakers were connected to the city's district heating network on 10 December 1979. Until this they had been generating their own heat and hot water themselves. The current icebreakers are \"Kontio\", \"Otso\", \"Voima\", \"Urho\", \"Sisu\" and \"Polaris\". In summertime, the icebreakers spending their summer at Katajanokka can also be rented for private events.\nPlans.\nThere was a plan to build a house for architecture and design (Armi) in Katajanokka, with an architecture design competition held in 2001. The building would have been located next to the Stora Enso main office, in place of the Kanavaterminaali building. No funding could be found for the project and the organisations behind it parted ways, so the project was finally abandoned in 2006. In 2007 there was a plan for a hotel at the same site, named after Alvar Aalto and riding on his reputation, with the Swiss architecture bureau Herzog &amp; de Meuron invited to design it.\nIn 2006 there was a plan to build a bridge from Katajanokka to Laajasalo. The bridge would have been taken into use for trams and pedestrian traffic. In later versions the bridge was replaced with a tunnel, and a line going via Tervasaari and Sompasaari was found as an alternative route. Later, the Crown Bridges project was designed to pass through Hakaniemi.\nThere was a plan to build premises for the Helsinki emergency dispatch centre in Katajanokka. However, the rent of the premises was seen as too high, and the emergency dispatch centre was moved to Kerava. A new user for the caves was found, but its identity has not been made public. Explosions during the excavation of the caves caused damage in the properties along Luotsikatu.\nArchitecture.\nKatajanokka is principally known for its fine examples of Jugendstil architecture. Other prominent styles apparent on the island are modernism, manifested in Alvar Aalto's Enso-Gutzeit Building, and the red-brick industrial former harbour buildings and prison (now a Best Western hotel).\nPolitics.\nResults of the 2011 Finnish parliamentary election in Katajanokka:\nSights.\nArt Nouveau houses in Katajanokka.\nThe numbers refer to the target numbers of the tour map on the official site of the meeting organisers in the City of Helsinki."}
{"id": "708929", "revid": "50761727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708929", "title": "Carl Doy", "text": "Carl William Doy (born May 6, 1947) is a British-born New Zealand pianist, composer and arranger. One of New Zealand's most successful musicians, Doy is probably best known for his multi-platinum selling \"Piano By Candlelight\" albums.\nLife and career.\nDoy was born in Camberley, Surrey, England. He drew an interest in music as early as six years of age after he fell in love with his grandmother's piano. Although he did not have a formal music education at that time, he had a natural gift for playing by ear, which he then used to play popular songs of the day. It was only when he was in the Grammar School, his talents were identified by his music teachers who guided him to take the preliminary exams at the Royal College of Music. At 18 years of age, he won a scholarship to the Royal College of Music and studied piano, organ and composition there for two years.\nIn 1967, having achieved highest grades for theory in music, he joined the Arcadia cruise ship of P&amp;O Cruises as its resident pianist. He spent the next few years playing between the cruise ship job and in UK clubs as well. In 1971, he was appointed the Musical Director aboard the Ocean Monarch cruise ship, which was one of the pioneers to have a full entertainment unit aboard.\nAfter few years of work on cruise ships at the sea, Doy decided to settle down to pursue his musical career in a different domain. That resulted in him moving to New Zealand in 1973 with wife Kathy. He started work at Television New Zealand, where he got himself established quickly as a session pianist and arranger. That was the beginning of his career as a very popular writer and arranger of music for thousands of radio and television programs over the next decade or so. The most significant work at that time was the \"Royal Variety Performance\" for Queen Elizabeth II. He also arranged the Pope's Mass, which involved writing for two orchestras and a large voice choir. He had the opportunity to play and tour with a variety of visiting artists such as Shirley Bassey and The Seekers.\nHis immense success in popular commercial music scene started in late 1980s with the introduction of the best selling \"Piano by Candlelight\" sequel. It all started when Doy met Auckland record producer Murray Thom at an Auckland hotel in 1987. Thom heard something he knew would be a winner; Doy playing different kind of lounge music in the foyer and the two got talking. Within months Doy's first Piano by Candlelight album was released. It was a big breakthrough for Doy and they decided to record an album with some popular music/songs in CD format. This was beginning of the ever popular \"Piano By Candlelight\" series, which made its entry to the NZ charts at number one in its first week. It was also one of the best selling albums ever by a NZ artist, selling in excess of one million copies in the US alone, and giving Carl the distinction of being the only New Zealand solo artist up until that time (1992) to have a certified platinum album in the US. The albums have also sold more than three million copies worldwide particularly in most European countries, the Far East, South America and Canada.\nEight more albums were recorded over the next twelve years under the same series. The second CD named \"Piano By Candlelight 2\" created a record in 1989 for most copies sold in New Zealand of a locally recorded album. Oprah Winfrey is one of his fans and his \"Together Collection\" was featured in her Favourite Things show in 2002 where she said \"It is so fabulous, I think it's the best.\"\nDame Kiri Te Kanawa sang his arrangement of \"E te Tarakihi\" from Gisborne in the first live broadcast of the new millennium, to a worldwide television audience of over a hundred million people. Doy was also the music director/arranger of a series of CD albums created by another successful musician, NZ guitarist Martin Winch. One such album, \"Espresso Guitar\" released in 1998 has sold more than 100,000 copies in New Zealand alone.\nIn 1992, he received the Benny Award from the Variety Artists Club of New Zealand Inc, the highest honour available to a New Zealand variety entertainer.\nDoy has completed five series of TVNZ's \"Dancing with the Stars\". as its musical director.\nIn the 2009 Queen's Birthday Honours, Doy was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to music.\nDoy is a patron of the National Youth Theatre Company of New Zealand (NYTC)."}
{"id": "708931", "revid": "51441182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708931", "title": "Amanda Peterson", "text": "Phyllis Amanda Peterson (July 8, 1971 \u2013 July 3, 2015) was an American actress, most known for her roles as Cindy Mancini in the 1987 film \"Can't Buy Me Love\" and Sunny Sisk on the NBC drama series \"A Year in the Life\" (1987\u20131988).\nPeterson died at age 43 from an accidental drug overdose when she mixed a prescription drug with illegally obtained morphine following surgery.\nEarly life.\nPeterson was born in Greeley, Colorado, the youngest of three children born to James Peterson\u2014an ear, nose, and throat specialist\u2014and his wife, Sylvia. She had two older siblings: a sister, Anne Marie, and a brother, James Jr. She was credited as Mandy Peterson at the beginning of her career; \"Mandy\" was how she was known to her friends and relatives. She later assumed \"Amanda Peterson\" as her professional name.\nCareer.\nAt age seven, Peterson made her stage debut as Gretl von Trapp in a University of Northern Colorado production of \"The Sound of Music\". At 11, she won a role in the musical film \"Annie\" as a dancing extra. Peterson went on to land guest spots on \"Father Murphy\" and \"Silver Spoons\", while also appearing in more than 50 television commercials. Between 1983 and 1984, she co-starred as Squirt Sawyer on the NBC drama series \"Boone\", which was canceled after one season.\nIn 1985, Peterson won her first major film role, playing Lori Swenson in the sci-fi fantasy \"Explorers\". Despite performing averagely at the box office, the Joe Dante-directed feature went on to secure a cult following. Next, she co-starred as Sunny Sisk, the granddaughter of a successful businessman, in the Emmy Award-winning miniseries \"A Year in the Life\"; the third highest-rated miniseries of the 1986\u201387 U.S. television season. It was later adapted into a full series, airing on NBC from 1987 to 1988. For her work as Sisk on the show, Peterson won a Young Artist Award. Though initially well received, \"Life\" was canceled after one season.\nIn 1986, 15-year-old Peterson was cast to play the headline role of Cindy Mancini in the Buena Vista romantic comedy, \"Boy Rents Girl\". The title was later changed to \"Can't Buy Me Love\" after producers secured the rights to The Beatles' 1964 song of the same title, which featured on the soundtrack. Released in August 1987, \"Love\" received mixed reviews but became the sleeper hit of the summer, with Peterson going on to achieve teen idol status as a result. In their critique of the film, \"The New York Times\" found Peterson's portrayal of Mancini to be \"appealing\", while highlighting her chemistry with co-star Patrick Dempsey.\nIn 1988, Peterson starred in a Roger Corman production, the post-apocalyptic adventure film \"The Lawless Land\". This was followed by a co-starring role in the 1989 ensemble drama \"Listen to Me\". She returned to her hometown of Greeley that same year to graduate from University High School, having been privately tutored while working in Los Angeles. Shortly afterward, she starred in the straight-to-video thriller \"Fatal Charm\" (1990), playing a na\u00efve high schooler who forms a dangerous bond with a serial killer. That fall, Peterson enrolled at Middlebury College, where she appeared in a black box production of the Sarah Daniels play, \"Masterpieces,\" as well as guesting on \"Doogie Howser, M.D.\" while on semester break.\nFollowing a recurring spot on the ABC drama series \"Jack's Place\" in 1993, Peterson's final appearance on-screen was a supporting role in the 1994 fantasy film, \"WindRunner\", filmed when she was 22-years-old.\nLater years.\nIn 1994, Peterson retired from the entertainment industry and returned to her hometown of Greeley. According to her father, she left Hollywood to \"choose a new path in her life.\" After briefly attending Middlebury College, she enrolled at Colorado State University for a year. Peterson later studied at the University of Northern Colorado. In May 2012, she appeared in her last-ever photoshoot.\nPeterson was twice married and had two children. She was first married to Joseph Robert Skutvik. After their divorce, she married David Hartley. Peterson and Hartley were reportedly divorced at the time of her death.\nBetween October 2000 and May 2012, Peterson was arrested five times for the offenses of third-degree assault, harassment, DUI, and possession of drug paraphernalia and suspicion of distributing a Schedule 2 controlled substance. From September to December 2005, she spent nearly three months in jail. Peterson's last arrests were for a misdemeanor DUI and possession of narcotics equipment in April 2012, and suspicion of child abuse in May 2012, which was later dropped. According to her father, she had previously struggled with drug issues, but was drug-free at the time of her death and had become \"quite religious.\" He added that, in recent years, Peterson had suffered from sleep apnea as well as bouts of pneumonia and sinusitis. For the last three years of her life, Peterson was receiving disability benefits and lived alone in an apartment in Greeley.\nDeath.\nPeterson was reported missing on July 3, 2015, after her family grew concerned when she failed to attend a planned dinner. Two days later, on July 5, she was found dead at her home by Greeley police, three days short of her 44th birthday. Though her apartment door was unlocked, authorities found no evidence of foul play.\nIn an interview with \"Entertainment Tonight\" following Peterson's death, her mother stated that while her daughter had dealt with drug issues in the past, she believed her to be drug-free at the time of her death, emphasizing that it \"was not in any way a drug thing.\"\nAn autopsy was scheduled for July 6 by the Weld County coroner, with results released on September 2, 2015. The examination revealed Peterson's death resulted from an accidental drug overdose. She had recently undergone a hysterectomy and was prescribed Gabapentin for pain management. Additionally, she had been taking morphine obtained from a friend a week prior. The coroner attributed her death to respiratory failure triggered by a \"morphine effect.\"\nTwo months after her death, in a September 2015 interview with talk show \"The Doctors\", Peterson's family revealed that she had been raped at age 15 and had not disclosed it at the time, even to her sister. This incident changed her attitude and led to trust issues. Some family members stated that the incident led to her drug use."}
{"id": "708935", "revid": "622881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708935", "title": "Periodic motion", "text": ""}
{"id": "708937", "revid": "34655588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708937", "title": "Eugene Onegin (opera)", "text": "Eugene Onegin (, ), Op. 24, is an opera (designated as \"lyrical scenes\") in 3 acts (7 scenes), composed by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky. The libretto, organised by the composer himself, very closely follows certain passages in Alexander Pushkin's 1825\u20131832 novel in verse, retaining much of his poetry. Tchaikovsky's friend Konstantin Shilovsky contributed M. Triquet's verses in Act 2, Scene 1, while Tchaikovsky himself arranged the text for Lensky's arioso in Act 1, Scene 1, and almost all of Prince Gremin's aria in Act 3, Scene 1.\n\"Eugene Onegin\" is a well-known example of lyric opera, to which Tchaikovsky added music of a dramatic nature. The story concerns a selfish hero who lives to regret his blas\u00e9 rejection of a young woman's love and his careless incitement of a fatal duel with his best friend.\nThe opera was first performed in Moscow in 1879. There are several recordings of it, and it is regularly performed. The work's title refers to the protagonist.\nComposition history.\nIn May 1877, the opera singer Yelizaveta Lavrovskaya spoke to Tchaikovsky about creating an opera based on the plot of Alexander Pushkin's 1825\u20131832 verse novel \"Eugene Onegin.\" Tchaikovsky felt that the novel wasn't particularly strong in plot \u2013 a dandy rejects a young country girl, she successfully grows into a worldly woman, he tries to seduce her but it is too late. The strength of the novel resided in its character development and social commentary, as well as in the beauty of its literary delivery. Soon after a sleepless night, Tchaikovsky came to embrace the idea. He created the scenarios in one night before starting the composition of the music.\nTchaikovsky, with some minor involvement by Konstantin Shilovsky, used original verses from Pushkin's novel and chose scenes that involved the emotional world and fortunes of his heroes, calling the opera \"lyrical scenes.\" The opera is episodic; there is no continuous story, just selected highlights of Onegin's life. The composer finished the opera by January 1878.\nPerformance history.\nTchaikovsky worried whether the public would accept his opera, which lacked traditional scene changes. He believed that its performance required maximum simplicity and sincerity. With this in mind, he entrusted the first production to the students of the Moscow Conservatory. The premiere took place on 29 March (17 March O.S.) 1879 at the Maly Theatre, Moscow, conducted by Nikolai Rubinstein, with set designs by Karl Valts (Waltz). Whatever misgivings Tchaikovsky had, over the next century the public embraced the opera and it is frequently performed all over the world.\nTwo years later the first performance at the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow took place on 23 January (11 January O.S.) 1881 with conductor Eduard N\u00e1pravn\u00edk.\nOutside Russia the initial reception was lukewarm, and it was slow to reach European cities, being seen as a Russian curiosity. The first performance outside Russia took place on 6\u00a0December 1888 in Prague, conducted by Tchaikovsky himself, although the rehearsals had been the responsibility of Adolf \u010cech. It was sung in Czech and translated by Marie \u010cervinkov\u00e1-Riegrov\u00e1.\nThe first performance in Hamburg, on 19 January 1892, was conducted by Gustav Mahler, in the composer's presence. Tchaikovsky was applauded after each scene and received curtain calls at the end. He attributed its success to Mahler, whom he described as \"not some average sort, but simply a \"genius\" burning with a desire to conduct\".\nThe first performance in England took place on 17 October 1892 at the Olympic Theatre in London with Henry J. Wood conducting and Eug\u00e8ne Oudin in the title role. Fanny Moody sang Tatyana. This performance was sung in English, to a text translated by Henry Sutherland Edwards.\nVienna first saw \"Eugene Onegin\" on 19 November 1897, conducted by Gustav Mahler.\nThe United States premiere was given on 24 March 1920 at the Metropolitan Opera in New York City. The opera was sung in Italian. The first Russian performance by the Metropolitan Opera was on 15 October 1977.\nInstrumentation.\nSource: Tchaikovsky Research\nSynopsis.\nTime: The 1820s\nPlace: St Petersburg and surrounding countryside\nAct 1.\n\"Scene 1: The garden of the Larin country estate\"\nMadame Larina and the nurse Filipyevna are sitting outside in the garden. They can hear Madame Larina's two daughters, Tatyana and her younger sister Olga, singing a love song. Madame Larina begins to reminisce about her own courtship and marriage. A group of peasants enter, and celebrate the harvest with songs and dances. Tatyana and Olga watch. Tatyana has been reading a romantic novel and is absorbed by the story; her carefree sister, on the other hand, wants to join in the celebrations. Madame Larina tells Tatyana that real life is very different from her novels. Filipyevna announces that visitors have arrived: Olga's fianc\u00e9 Lensky, a young poet, and his friend Eugene Onegin, visiting the area from St Petersburg. The pair are shown in and Lensky introduces Onegin to the Larin family. Onegin is initially surprised that Lensky has chosen the extrovert Olga rather than her more subtle elder sister as his fianc\u00e9e. Tatyana for her part is immediately and strongly attracted to Onegin. Lensky expresses his delight at seeing Olga and she responds flirtatiously. Onegin tells Tatyana of his boredom in the country and describes the death of his uncle and his subsequent inheritance of a nearby estate. Filipyevna recognizes that Onegin has had a profound effect on Tatyana.\n\"Scene 2: Tatyana's room\"\nTatyana is dressed for bed. Restless and unable to sleep, she asks her nurse Filipyevna to tell her about her youth and early marriage. Tatyana confesses that she is in love. Left alone, Tatyana pours out her feelings in a letter to Onegin. She tells him that she loves him and believes that she will never feel this way about anyone else, and begs him to understand and help her. She finishes writing the letter at dawn. A shepherd's pipe is heard in the distance. Filipyevna enters the room to wake Tatyana. Tatyana persuades her to send her grandson to deliver the letter to Onegin.\n\"Scene 3: Another part of the estate\"\nServant girls pick fruit and sing as they work. Tatyana waits anxiously for Onegin's arrival. Onegin enters to see Tatyana and give her his answer to her letter. He explains, not unkindly, that he is not a man who loves easily and is unsuited to marriage. He is unworthy of her love and can only offer her brotherly affection. He warns Tatyana to be less emotionally open in the future. The voices of the servant girls singing are heard again. Tatyana is crushed and unable to reply.\nAct 2.\n\"Scene 1: The ballroom of the Larin house\"\nA ball is being given in honour of Tatyana, whose name day it is. Onegin is dancing with her. He grows irritated with a group of neighbours who gossip about him and Tatyana, and with Lensky for persuading him to come to the ball. He decides to avenge himself by dancing and flirting with Olga. Lensky is astounded and becomes extremely jealous. He confronts Olga but she cannot see that she has done anything wrong and tells Lensky not to be ridiculous. Onegin asks Olga to dance with him again and she agrees, as \"punishment\" for Lensky's jealousy. The elderly French tutor Monsieur Triquet sings some couplets in honour of Tatyana (Sung in French in the opera with different lyrics, this tune takes up that of the romance (for one or two voices) \"Dormez donc mes ch\u00e8res amours\", directly taken from the vaudeville La Somnambule (libretto by Scribe and Delavigne - 1819) with music by Am\u00e9d\u00e9e de Beauplan, whose first lyrics are: \"Reposons-nous ici tous deux \" in G major) ; after which the quarrel between Lensky and Onegin becomes more intense. Lensky renounces his friendship with Onegin in front of all the guests, and challenges Onegin to a duel, which the latter is forced, with many misgivings, to accept. Tatyana collapses and the ball ends in confusion.\n\"Scene 2: On the banks of a wooded stream, early morning\"\nLensky is waiting for Onegin with his second Zaretsky. Lensky reflects on his life, his fear of death and his love for Olga. Onegin arrives with his manservant Guillot. Both Lensky and Onegin are reluctant to go ahead with the duel, reflecting on the senselessness of their sudden enmity. But it is too late; neither man has the courage to stop the duel. Zaretsky gives them the signal and Onegin shoots Lensky dead.\nAct 3.\n\"Scene 1: The house of a rich nobleman in St Petersburg\"\nFive years have passed, during which Onegin has travelled extensively around Europe. Standing alone at a ball, he reflects on the emptiness of his life and his remorse over the death of Lensky. Prince Gremin enters with Tatyana, his wife, now a grand, aristocratic beauty. She is greeted by many of the guests with great deference. Onegin is taken aback when he sees Tatyana, and deeply impressed by her beauty and noble bearing. Tatyana, in turn, is overwhelmed with emotion when she recognizes him, but tries to suppress it. Gremin tells Onegin about his great happiness and love for Tatyana, and re-introduces Onegin to his wife. Onegin, suddenly injected with new life, realizes that he is in love with Tatyana. He determines to write to her and arrange a meeting.\n\"Scene 2: A room in Prince Gremin's house\"\nTatyana has received Onegin's letter, which has stirred up the passion she felt for him as a young girl and disturbed her. Onegin enters. Tatyana recalls her earlier feelings and asks why Onegin is pursuing her now. Is it because of her social position? Onegin denies any cynical motivation: his passion is real and overwhelming. Tatyana, moved to tears, reflects how near they once were to happiness but nevertheless asks him to leave. He asks her to have pity. Tatyana admits she still loves Onegin, but asserts that their union can never be realized, as she is now married, and determined to remain faithful to her husband despite her true feelings. Onegin implores her to relent, but she bids him farewell forever, leaving him alone and in despair.\nPrincipal arias and numbers.\nAct 1\nAct 2&lt;br&gt;\nAct 3&lt;br&gt;\nStructure.\nSource: Tchaikovsky Research\nAct 1\nAct 2\nAct 3\nRecordings.\nSource: \nSung in German:\nSung in English:\nAllusions.\nPrince Gremin's aria \u00ab\u041b\u044e\u0431\u0432\u0438 \u0432\u0441\u0435 \u0432\u043e\u0437\u0440\u0430\u0441\u0442\u044b \u043f\u043e\u043a\u043e\u0440\u043d\u044b\u00bb \u2013 \"To love both young and old surrender\" (Act III, Scene I) is partially hummed by the characters of Vershinin and Masha in Anton Chekhov's play \"Three Sisters\"."}
{"id": "708938", "revid": "33408481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708938", "title": "JBT", "text": "JBT may refer to:"}
{"id": "708941", "revid": "7770027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708941", "title": "G8 Summit at Sea Island, Georgia, June 8-10 2004", "text": ""}
{"id": "708945", "revid": "16228717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708945", "title": "Henry VII Chapel", "text": "The Henry VII Lady Chapel, now more often known just as the Henry VII Chapel, is a large Lady chapel at the far eastern end of Westminster Abbey, England, paid for by the will of King Henry VII. It is separated from the rest of the abbey by brass gates and a flight of stairs.\nThe structure of the chapel is a three-aisled nave composed of four bays, leading to an apse, which contains the altar, and behind that the tombs of Henry VII and his wife Elizabeth of York as well as of James I. There are five apsidal chapels.\nThe chapel is noted for its pendant fan vault ceiling.\nThe chapel is built in a very late Perpendicular Gothic style, the magnificence of which caused John Leland to call it the \"orbis miraculum\" (the wonder of the world). The tombs of several monarchs including Henry VII, Edward VI, Mary I, Elizabeth I, James I, Charles II and Mary, Queen of Scots are found in the chapel.\nThe chapel has also been the mother church of the Order of the Bath since 1725, and the banners of members hang above the stalls.\nHistory.\nIn the 13th century, a movement toward devotion to the Virgin Mary inspired the building of chapels in her honour across Europe. Henry III\u2019s Lady Chapel at Westminster Abbey was part of this trend. In 1502, Henry VII planned a new chapel. The old one was demolished in 1502 and construction of the new foundation began January 24, 1503.\nHenry VII had three goals when planning his chapel. The first was to build a shrine to honour and hold the body of Henry VI, who was expected to be canonized. Ultimately, canonization did not occur and Henry VII and his wife, Elizabeth of York, were interred in the tomb intended for Henry VI. Second, Henry VII wished to dedicate a more elaborate chapel to the Virgin to replace the older, simpler structure; and third, he wanted a royal mausoleum for him, his family, and his heirs at an important religious site that would enhance his legitimacy as king and his legacy.\nHenry VII allocated more than \u00a314,000 for its construction between 1503 and 1509. In his will, he stipulated that more funds were to be provided as needed. The final cost of the chapel is estimated at \u00a320,000. According to Francis Bacon, \u201cHe lieth at Westminster in one of the stateliest and daintiest monuments of Europe\u2026So that he dwelleth more richly dead in the monument of his tomb than he did alive at Richmond or in any of his palaces.\u201d \nIn the eighteenth century, one observer commented that \u201c[t]his chapel, it has been said, was designed as a sepulchre in which none but such as were of the royal-blood should ever be interred; accordingly the will of the founder has been so far observed, that all that have hitherto been admitted are of the highest quality, and can trace their descent from some or other of our ancient kings.\u201d In the intervening years, some people not of aristocratic descent, including Oliver Cromwell, were buried there, but during the Restoration of the monarchy many of those people were disinterred.\nPendant fan vault.\nThe Henry VII Chapel is best known for its combination of pendant fan vault ceiling. Andrew Reynolds refers to the vault as \u201cthe most perfect example of a pendant fan vault, the most ambitious kind of vaulting current in the perpendicular period.\u201d Notably, this ceiling was also the first to combine pendants with fan vaulting.\nThe fan vault is created by first dividing the ceiling into groin vaulted compartments. These groin vaults are created by the combination of arches along the wall and larger, transverse arches bridging the nave of the chapel. In the fan vault at the Henry VII Chapel, the compartments are nearly square in shape. The compartments are then ribbed and paneled. Ribs, of the same curve and size, are cut from single pieces of stone and rebated so to best fit with the panels. The curved ribs, extending from the same point on the wall, are spaced equidistant from each other, forming conoid shapes. The resulting conoids, however, require great compressive forces to keep shape.\nSpandrels usually provide pressure along the upper edge of the conoids. In the Henry VII Chapel, these spandrels are replaced with hanging pendants. The pendants still provide the compression necessary to support the conoids and add complexity to the aesthetics of the room.\nThe pendants serve an additional structural purpose. The pendants are cut from single stones and inserted as wedge stones in the transverse arches. By combining with the transverse arches, the pendants do not require additional structural support.\nAt the time of the construction of the chapel, pendant vaults were very new; they were first seen in the Divinity School at Oxford.\nOther architectural features.\nThe chapel's architect is unknown, but it is believed that Robert Janyns the Younger was responsible for the design of much of the structure. The structure of the chapel is a three-aisled nave composed of four bays. The aisles are divided by rows of mahogany stalls into the North, South, and Central aisles. All contain numerous monuments and floor stones dedicated to various nobles. Above the stalls, at the triforium level, are many sculptures. Interspersed between the sculptures are the heraldic banners of the Knights of the Order of the Bath. Above this is the clerestory, with three rows of smaller windows. The window tracery articulates four larger windows, one in each bay, each composed of these three rows of smaller lancet windows. As much of the original glass was destroyed during the English Commonwealth, the East Window, over the centre apsidal chapel, as well as the Donor Windows (in the west), in the chapels themselves, are new additions, installed in 2000 and 1995, respectively. The latter is the west window which depicts royal coats of arms, and was designed by John Lawson and made by Goddard &amp; Gibbs. In 2013, two new stained glass windows designed by Hughie O'Donoghue were installed on either side of the East Window.\nThe apse of the chapel contains the altar, and behind that, the tombs of Henry VII and his wife as well as of James I. There are five apsidal chapels. These chapels originally contained altars\u2014they were screened off and intended for private prayer for members of the royal family\u2014but their dedication is no longer known.\nUpon entering the chapel, one passes through a set of bronze gates, which are elaborately crafted and \u201cillustrate the\u2026intense determination of Henry VII to put to the forefront every possible indication of his claims to the crown of England.\u201d The gates are decorated with numerous royal crests that serve to legitimize his rule. Once inside, the mahogany stalls stand out to the viewer as they contrast with the light colored stone of the walls and ceiling. The stalls also contribute the verticality of the interior. They date from different times; while some are original others were added later to accommodate the increasing number of Knights of the Order of the Bath. The stalls were designated for all living Knights of the Most Honourable Order of the Bath. When a knight was installed, he received a stall that was subsequently adorned with his crest, coat of arms, and heraldic banner, the last of which remained in the chapel even after the knight's death. These banners all remain to decorate the chapel. During the nineteenth century, there were too many knights to accommodate in the chapel and no more were installed until the twentieth century. Currently, only the most senior knights are assigned stalls in the chapel.\nThe altar and Henry VII's tomb were crafted by the same Italian artist, Pietro Torrigiano. The Henry VII tomb was created first, beginning in 1512. The tomb was sculpted by a Florentine Renaissance artist, thus, the style is atypical of English art. The putti on the corners are particularly uncharacteristic. The altar was begun in 1517, but Torrigiano left the country before it was completed; Benedetto da Rovezzano finished its construction in 1526. Originally made of terracotta, white marble, and gilt bronze, it was destroyed during the Commonwealth. The current altar is based on images of the original. Two surviving pillars and two newly constructed ones support the reconstructed altar. Also significant are the aforementioned sculptures that adorn the triforium. The statues are of saints and the Apostles. According to Lindley, that \u201cHenry VII\u2019s will declares his trust in...\u2018Aungels, Archaungels, Patriarchs, Prophets, Apostels, Evangelists, Martirs, Confessours and Virgyns\u2019\u201d is critical to understanding his motivation in building the chapel: \u201cHenry\u2019s belief in the efficacy of \u2018mediacions and prayers\u2019 in his progress through purgatory is crucial to his purpose.\u201d That is to say, he built the chapel and adorned it with numerous sculptures of important religious figures in part to ensure his acceptance into Heaven.\nRAF Chapel.\nAt the far eastern end is the RAF Chapel, dedicated to the men of the Royal Air Force and allied forces who died in the Battle of Britain between July and October 1940, who are also commemorated by a stained glass window The chapel preserves a small hole in its wall caused by a German bomb exploding outside during an air raid in 1941. The RAF Chapel was the original burial site of Oliver Cromwell in 1658. Cromwell was disinterred in 1661, after the Stuart Restoration, when his body was hanged in chains on the gallows at Tyburn."}
{"id": "708946", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708946", "title": "Henry VII chapel", "text": ""}
{"id": "708947", "revid": "55876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708947", "title": "Henry VII's Chapel", "text": ""}
{"id": "708948", "revid": "1416331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708948", "title": "Commonwealth of Puerto Rico", "text": ""}
{"id": "708949", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708949", "title": "Stone-Tukey theorem", "text": ""}
{"id": "708950", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708950", "title": "Shneur Zalman", "text": ""}
{"id": "708952", "revid": "49249914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708952", "title": "Greenland (disambiguation)", "text": "Greenland is the world's largest island and an autonomous territory within the Kingdom of Denmark.\nGreenland or Greenlands may also refer to:"}
{"id": "708954", "revid": "51699630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708954", "title": "National Law School of India University", "text": "The National Law School of India University (NLSIU), commonly referred to as the National Law School (NLS), is a public Karnataka state law university in Bengaluru, India. Established under the Karnataka Act No. 22 of 1986, it is widely regarded as one of the country's leading institutions for legal education and has consistently been ranked first in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for law.\nThe University offers a five-year undergraduate Bachelor of Arts\u2013Bachelor of Laws programme (BA LLB) and a one-year LLM programme. Entrance to these programmes is through the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). Additionally, the University has an undergraduate Bachelor of Arts (Honours) programme, a three-year LLB (Honours) postgraduate programme, a two-year Master\u2019s Programme in Public Policy, and doctoral degrees in law and social sciences, humanities and public policy.\nSpread over a 23-acre campus, it houses India's largest legal library and hosts some of the country's well-known competitions and events, including the \"NLS Debate\" and \"Strawberry Fields festival.\" The NLSIU is the only Indian institute to have won the Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition, having done so in 1999 and 2013. Furthermore, 25 alumni have been Rhodes scholars.\nHistory.\nThe National Law School was founded after two decades of work by lawyers including former Chief Justice Mohammad Hidayatullah, Ram Jethmalani and Upendra Baxi, who petitioned the Legal Education Committee of the Bar Council of India to establish a university to rival Harvard Law School. Subsequently, the Bar Council of India Trust and Government of Karnataka reached an agreement to found the first National Law University in Bangalore. In 1986, the National Law University of India was established under the leadership of its founder, then Vice-Chancellor N. R. Madhava Menon.\nDue to its excellence in the field of law, NLSIU is often referred to as the \"Harvard of the East\".\nMenon ensured that the teaching at the university was based on the case method at Harvard rather than the traditional lecture format that was then rampant across Indian law schools. He also introduced to the university the concept of collaborative teaching, wherein more than one professor would conduct classes, with different professors taking and arguing contradictory positions in jurisprudence.\nThe first batch of undergraduate law students were enrolled in 1 July 1988. Classes commenced before the school's buildings had been fully constructed, with lessons delivered at the Central College of Bangalore University until November 1991. Thereafter, the school moved to its current location in the Nagarbhavi suburb.\nIn 1995, the first UNHCR Chair for Refugee Law was inaugurated at NLSIU, which serves as the Asian Centre for Refugee Law. Professor N. Subramanya worked on key issues pertaining to refugees during his tenure.\nAdministration.\nThe Chief Justice of India is the Visitor and de facto Chancellor of the school, with the ability to adjudicate and advise the operations of the school. The Vice-Chancellor of the school is the chief executive of the university and manages the day-to-day operations of the school. The school has had five more Vice-Chancellors since Menon, namely N. L. Mitra, A. Jayagovind, G. Mohan Gopal, R. Venkata Rao, and Sudhir Krishnaswamy, who took over in 2019.\nThe administration of the school is governed by the General Council, Executive Council, Academic Council, and Finance Council. These Councils comprise key figures from the Government of Karnataka, the Chief Justice of India, the Chairman of the Bar Council of India, Judges of the Supreme Court of India, the Advocate General of Karnataka, as well as Ministers and Secretaries from the Karnataka State Government. Additionally, distinguished legal scholars contribute to the governance of the institution.\nAdmissions.\nAdmissions to the 5-year undergraduate BA LLB (Hons) programme are based on the Common Law Admission Test-undergraduate (CLAT-UG). For the 2023-24 session of the undergraduate CLAT, a total of 56,472 students competed for 2644 total law seats, out of which 240 were offered at the NLSIU. In 2020, the NLSIU attempted to withdraw from the CLAT, announcing that it would hold its own entrance examination. This decision was soon overturned by the Supreme Court of India.\nThe postgraduate version of the CLAT screens candidates for the Master of Laws Programme. CLAT is administered by the Consortium of NLUs.\nCandidates of the NLS Bachelor of Arts (Hons), three-year LLB (Hons), Master of Public Policy, and Doctor of Philosophy are screened by the National Law School Admission Tests (NLSAT) conducted by NLSIU.\nIn June 2021, the NLSIU announced a plan to increase the number of students enrolled on campus from 660 in 2021 to 2,200 in 2028, led by increasing the batch sizes of the BA-LLB cohort and the establishing of a three-year LLB course.\nThe NLSIU has preserved 25% of seats for home students of Karnataka across admissions, but the Government of Karnataka has reservations on the manner in which this policy has been implemented.\nAcademics.\nUndergraduate.\nThe NLSIU offers graduates a five-year integrated BA/LLB which qualifies the student to sit for the bar in India. The curriculum consists of a blend of social science and law subjects. In the first two years, students attend courses in history, political science, sociology and economics, alongside legal subjects such as tort, contract and constitutional law. In the subsequent three years, students mainly study legal subjects.\nIn 2017, NLSIU overhauled its academic curriculum to allow students to choose a greater number of their upper-year courses, allowing students to explore areas of interest to a greater degree.\nIn 2025, the university introduced a three-year BA (Hons) programme with the option of an additional fourth year for research. The NLS BA (Hons.) Programme offers every student the option of electing a major-minor combination, or a double major. The majors and minors will be in the same areas/disciplines that are currently taught within the BA LLB (Hons.) programme. These disciplines are: 1) History, 2) Sociology &amp; Anthropology, 3) Economics, and 4) Politics.\nPostgraduate.\nNLSIU launched a three-year LLB programme in 2022, making it the first National Law University to do so.\nThe school offers a one-year LLM by coursework, a two-year MPP, and doctorate programmes in law and social sciences, humanities and public policy.\nIn addition to the above full-time programmes, the school's Professional And Continuing Education (PACE) department offers several part-time distance learning programmes, including a Masters in Business Law and postgraduate diplomas in various fields.\nRankings.\nNational Law School of India is widely considered the best law school in India. The National Institutional Ranking Framework ranked the institute first in its law ranking of 2023, 2024 and 2025, as did \"India Today\" \"India's Best Colleges 2023: Law\", and \"Outlook India\"s \"Top 13 Government Law Institutes\" of 2023.\nNarayan Rao Melgiri Memorial National Law Library.\nThe NLSIU's Narayan Rao Melgiri Memorial National Law Library is the largest law library in the country, housing a collection of over 50,000 books and 20,000 journals. It is named after Narayan Rao Melgiri, a lawyer in Gadag. The Melgiri Library was inaugurated by Chief Justice of India Ramesh Chandra Lahoti in 2005, and was funded by contributions from the University Grants Commission (India) and Sudha Murthy, chairperson of the Infosys Foundation and granddaughter of Melgiri.\nIn 2023, Chief Justice of India Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud and Bhutan Princess Sonam Dechen Wangchuck inaugurated a renovated library building, which now includes a number of accessibility features, including braille printers, screen readers, and desktop magnifiers.\nStudent activities.\nStudent Bar Association.\nThe Student Bar Association (SBA) is the umbrella body that coordinates all student activities. All students are \"de facto\" members of the SBA. The SBA oversees twelve activity-based committees (ABCs) that manage specific student activities. Institutional events include the Spiritus sports festival, Strawberry Fields music festival, the NLS-Trilegal International Arbitration Moot, the NLS Negotiation and Mediation Competition, and the Admit One theater festival. Students also run the publication of Quirk, an online magazine at NLSIU.\nCompetitive debating.\nNLSIU plays an active role in promoting parliamentary style debate in India. The school regularly participates in international competitions and is currently the highest-ranking Indian team in the debating world rankings.\nNLSIU reached the ESL Finals in 2002 and in 2007 at the World Universities Debating Championship. It also recently won the 15th All Asian Debating Championships held in Dhaka in 2008. NLSIU was the first South Asian team to reach the second round of the Cambridge University Debate Competition. All three NLSIU teams reached the semi-finals in the inaugural Asians BP Tournament held in Chulalongkorn University, with two out of the top ten speakers being from the university. The school has also reached the semi-finals of the United Asian Debating Championships 2010.\nBeginning in 2002, the NLSIU has hosted South Asia's largest parliamentary debate competition, the National Law School Debate. In 2011, the NLSIU launched the NLS Union Debate and the NLS Debate Junior. Christ Junior College also organised a debate with NLS in 2011.\nMoot court competitions.\nThe NLSIU is the only law school in South Asia to have won the Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition twice, in 1999 and 2013. It also reached the Jessup finals in 2018. The university has also won the Monroe E. Price Media Law Moot Court Competition at the University of Oxford in 2021. NLSIU has also won the Manfred Lachs Space Law Moot Court competition in 2009, 2012 and most recently in 2017.\nPublications.\nThere are numerous journals published by the students and faculty at NLSIU. Their National Law School of India Review has been cited by the Supreme Court of India in two notable judgments including the Right to Privacy verdict, which is the only student-run law journal of the already few Indian law journals to have been cited by the Supreme Court of India.\nThese are the journals published by the school:"}
{"id": "708955", "revid": "24565488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708955", "title": "Triglav (mythology)", "text": "Triglav ( \"Three-headed one\") was the chief god of the Pomeranian and probably some of the Polabian Slavs, worshipped in Szczecin, Wolin and probably Brenna (now Brandenburg). His cult is attested to in several biographies of the bishop St. Otto of Bamberg in the years immediately preceding his suppression of it in 1127. \nSources and history.\nIn Latin records, this theonym is noted as , , , , , .\nInformation about Triglav comes from three sources, the oldest being \"Life of Saint Otto, Bishop of Bamberg\" () by an anonymous monk from Pr\u00fcfening Abbey, written by 1146, the second source is the 1151 \"Life of Saint Otto, Bishop of Bamberg\" by the monk , the third is \"Dialog on the Life of Saint Otto of Bamberg\" by the monk , written around 1158-1159. These sources are biographies of St. Otto of Bamberg and describe his Christianization missions among the Baltic Slavs.\nFirst mission.\nOtto, after receiving permission from Pope Callistus II, goes to Pomerania to Christianize. The bishop first arrives in Wolin (according to Anonymous on August 4, according to Ebo on August 13, 1124). Anonymous describes the local cult of \"Julius Caesar's spear.\" However, the Wolinians refuse to accept the new religion and force Otto to leave the city; he goes to Szczecin. Herbord reports that Otto, after periodically hiding in the city, began Christianization on November 1, after receiving security guarantees from Boleslav III. An anonymous monk briefly introduces the cult of Triglav and the destruction of his temple and statue: in the city there were supposed to be two richly decorated temples () not far from each other that housed images of the gods, where the god Triglav was worshipped. One of the temples held a gilded and silver-plated saddle belonging to the god, as well as a well-built horse, which was used during prophecies: several spears were spread on the ground and the horse was led between them \u2013 if the horse, steered by the god, did not touch any spear with its foot, it meant good fortune and a good prediction for the upcoming battle or journey. Eventually, on Otto's orders, the temples were destroyed and the offerings distributed to the inhabitants. The bishop single-handedly destroyed the wooden statue of Triglav, taking only three silver-plated wooden heads from the statue, which he sent to the pope as proof that the residents had been baptized. According to Herbord, there were four temples in Szczecin, including one richly decorated with paintings of people and animals, dedicated to the Triglav. Gold and silver \"kraters,\" bull's horns decorated with precious stones that were drunk from or used as instruments, as well as swords, knives and furniture were dedicated to the god. The horse used during divination was black in color.\nEbo then goes on to describe how the priests of Wolin carted away the golden statue of Triglav to save it from destruction:&lt;poem&gt;\nAnd when the pious Otto destroyed the temples and the images of the idols, the pagan priests stole the golden image of Triglav, which they worshipped as the most important, smuggled it out of the province and delivered it to the safekeeping of a widow who lived on a modest farm, where there was no danger that anybody would come in search of it. Once they had taken this gift to her, she looked after it as if it were the apple of her eye and guarded that pagan idol in the following manner: after making a hole in the trunk of a large tree, she placed the image of Triglav therein, wrapped in a blanket and nobody was allowed to see it, much less touch it; only a small hole was left open in the trunk through which to insert the sacrifice and nobody entered that house unless it was to perform the rituals of the pagan sacrifices [...] And thus, Hermann bought himself a cap and a tunic in the Slavic style and, after many dangers along a difficult road, when he reached the house of that widow, declared that he had not long since succeeded in escaping from the tempestuous jaws of the sea thanks to the invocation of his god Triglav, and that he therefore wished to offer him the sacrifice promised for his salvation and that he had arrived there, led by him, following a miraculous order through unknown stretches of the road. And she says: \u201cIf you have been sent by him, I have here the altar which contains our god, enclosed in the hole made in an oak. You may not see him nor touch him, but rather, prostrating yourself before the trunk, take note from a prudent distance of the small hole where you must place the sacrifice you wish to make. And after offering it, once the orifice is reverently closed, go and, if you value your life, do not reveal this conversation to anybody\u201d. He entered joyfully in that place and threw a silver drachma into the hole, so that it would appear, from the sound of the metal, that he had offered a sacrifice. But after throwing it in, he took back out what he had thrown and, by way of homage to Triglav, he offered him a humiliation, specifically, a large gob of spit as a sacrifice. Afterwards, he looked carefully to see if there was any possibility of carrying out the mission for which he had been sent there and he realised that the image of Triglav had been placed in the trunk so carefully and firmly that it could not be taken out or even moved. Whereby, afflicted by no small sorrow, he asked himself anxiously what he should do, saying to himself: \u201cWoe! Why have I travelled so fruitlessly such a long journey by sea! What shall I say to my lord or who will believe that I was here, if I return empty-handed?\u201d And looking around him, he saw Triglav\u2019s saddle hanging nearby on the wall: this was extremely old and now served no purpose and, immediately rushing towards it, he tears the hapless trophy off the wall, hides it and, leaving in the early evening, he hurries to meet up with his lord and his men, tells them what he had done and shows Triglav\u2019s saddle as proof of his loyalty. And thus, the Apostle of the Pomeranians, after holding council with his companions, came to the conclusion that that they should desist in their undertaking, unless it should appear that they were driven less by a zeal for justice than by a greed for gold. After summoning and gathering the tribal chieftains and the elders, they demanded, by means of a solemn oath, that they abandon their cult to Triglav and that, once the image was broken, all of its gold would be used to redeem captives.\n\u2013 Ebo, \" Life of Saint Otto, Bishop of Bamberg\"\n&lt;/poem&gt;\nOtto then demanded that the inhabitants abandon the cult of Triglav. Then Otto established two Wolin churches: one in the city, dedicated to St. Adalbert and St. Wenceslas, and the other outside the city, large and beautiful, St. Peter's Temple. On March 28, 1125, Otto returns to his Archdiocese of Bamberg.\nSecond mission.\nSoon afterwards, some Wolinians and Stettinians returned to their native faith, as Ebo describes: In Wolin, the inhabitants, after burning idols during the first Christianization mission, began to create new statues decorated with gold and silver, and celebrated the feast of deities. For this, the Christian God was to punish them with fire from heaven. He further states:\n&lt;poem&gt;\nStettin, a big city, larger than Wollin, had three hills in its jurisdiction; the middle one of these, which was also the highest, was dedicated to Triglav, the most important god of the pagans. Its statue had three heads and its eyes and lips were covered with a golden bandage. About the idols, the priests said that their most important god had three heads because it ruled three kingdoms, namely, heaven, earth, and hell, and that its face was covered with a bandage so that it might ignore the sins of men as it did not see them and was silent.\n\u2013 Ebo, \" Life of Saint Otto, Bishop of Bamberg\"\n&lt;/poem&gt;\nThere was once an epidemic in the city, which the priests believed was sent by the gods as punishment for abandoning their faith, and that they should start offering sacrifices to the gods if they wanted to survive. Since then, pagan rituals and sacrifices began to be performed again in Szczecin, and Christian temples began to decline.\nIn April 1127, Otto returns to Pomerania to continue his Christianization mission. In May and June, he carries out Christianization in Wolgast and G\u00fctzkow, and on July 31 he returns to Szczecin. Further, Ebo and Herbord report that pagan places of worship were destroyed, and that Christianization continued.\nOther potential sources.\nIt is possible that the cult Triglav was mentioned by the 13th-century writer , who was well informed about the battles for Brenna in the mid-12th century, according to whom a three-headed deity was worshipped in the stronghold, but he does not give its name.\nSome authors believe that Adam of Bremen's information about \"Neptune\" worshipped in Wolin may refer to the Triglav.\nLegacy.\nScholars have tried to find any references to the Triglav beyond the Polabia and Pomerania. In this context, Mount \"Triglav\" in Slovenia and the legend associated with it are often mentioned: \"the first to appear from the water was the high mountain Triglav\", although Marko Snoj, for example, found the mountain's connection to a god unlikely. Aleksander Gieysztor, following , cites the \"Triglav\" stone near Ptuj, whose name was mentioned in 1322.\nThere is a village \"Trzyg\u0142\u00f3w\" in Poland, but it is within the range of the Szczecinian cult. In northwestern Poland, folklorists have collected a number of local legends, according to which the statue of Triglav taken from Wolin was supposed to be hidden in the village of Gryfice, in \u015awi\u0119touj\u015b\u0107 on Wolin, in Tychowo under the erratic boulder \"Tryg\u0142aw\", or in (\"Trzyg\u0142\u00f3w's Lake\").\nIn archaeology.\nThe Hill on which Szczecin's temple to Triglav was located was most likely identical to Castle Hill. At the top of the Hill there was supposed to be a circle surrounded by a ditch, which was originally a sacred circle (from the 8th century), later a temple of Triglav was built there, and later a Christian temple.\nBrandenburg's \"Mound of Triglav\" is located about 0.5 kilometers from the fortress located on the island. A bronze horse, iron and decorative objects, including a lot of pottery, were discovered in the stronghold, indicating its importance and that an extensive religious cult may have been associated with it.\nInterpretations.\nThe chthonic God.\nAccording to Aleksander Gieysztor, it should be considered that Triglav was a tribal god, separate from Perun, as indicated by Herbord's information that in Szczecin, in addition to temples, the place of worship included an oak tree and a spring, which are attributes of the thunder god. Gieysztor recognizes that Triglav was a god close to the chthonic Veles. According to him, this interpretation is supported by the fact that a black horse was sacrificed to Triglav, while Svetovit, interpreted by him as a Polabian hypostasis of Perun, received a white horse as sacrifice.\nAndrzej Szyjewski also recognizes Triglav as a chthonic god. He mentions the opinions of some researchers that the names \"Volos\" (\"Veles\"), \"Vologost\", \"Volyn\" and \"Wolin\" are related to each other, and Herbord's information that \"Pluto\" \u2013 the Greek god of death \u2013 was worshipped in Wolin.\nTrinity.\nAccording to Ji\u0159\u00ed Dynda, Triglav may have been a three-headed god who combined the three gods responsible for Earth, Heaven, Underworld. In doing so, he cites the pass of \"Neptune\" worshipped in Wolin and links this to Slovenian traditions regarding Mount Triglav, a three-leveled idol from Zbruch, a Wolin's sacred spear attached to a pole, and an oak tree with a spring which, according to Dynda, corresponds to the Norse Yggdrasil and the wells beneath it, and the hiding of the god's statue in the tree all of which are said to be connected to the \"Axis mundi\". Dynda proposes the following interpretations:\nAlleged influence of Christianity.\nAccording to Henryk Lowmianski, the Triglav originated in Christianity \u2013 in the Middle Ages the Holy Trinity was depicted with three faces, which was later taken over by pagans in the form of a three-headed deity. However, this view cannot be accepted, since the depiction of the Holy Trinity with three faces is attested only from the 14th century, and the official condemnation by the Pope from 1628. The depiction of the Holy Trinity with three faces itself may be of pagan origin (Balkans).\nAccording to Stanislaw Rosik, Christianity may have influenced the development of the Triglav cult in its declining phase. The significance may have been that for the Slavs the Christian God was a \"German god,\" associated with a different ethnic group, but known from neighborly contacts and the later coexistence of the cult of Jesus and the Triglav (the so-called \"doublefaith\"). As pagans understood it, they linked the power of the deity to the military-political strength of the tribe in question, so the Pomeranians reckoned with a new deity, and the monolatrous (or henotheistic) worship of Triglav may have fostered his identification with Jesus on the basis of \"interpretatio Slavica\". Such an alignment of religiosity fostered a later highlighting of the separateness of Jesus and Triglav, in accordance with Christian theology, and further demonization of Triglav after the final christianisation of Pomerania, which perhaps finds an outlet in the 15th-century \"Liber sancti Jacobi\", where Triglav is referred to as \"the enemy of mankind\" and \"the god or rather the devil.\""}
{"id": "708956", "revid": "4071608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708956", "title": "Mary White (lifeboat)", "text": "Mary White was a lifeboat based in Broadstairs, Kent, England, named in 1851 after the completion of an heroic rescue of a brig, the \"Mary White\".\n\"Mary White\" with her sister boat, \"Culmer White\", took part in the rescue of \"Northern Belle\" in January 1857. \"Northern Belle\" was a US transatlantic ship which ran aground near Thanet in blizzard conditions. \"Culmer White\" and \"Mary White\" made repeated trips to the damaged \"Belle\" and saved the entire crew.\nReferences.\n "}
{"id": "708960", "revid": "1682772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708960", "title": "The Defenders (1961 TV series)", "text": "The Defenders is an American courtroom drama television series that ran on CBS from 1961 to 1965. It was created by television writer Reginald Rose, and stars E. G. Marshall and Robert Reed as father-and-son defense attorneys Lawrence and Kenneth Preston. Original music for the series was scored by Frank Lewin and Leonard Rosenman. The series was spun off from the \"Studio One\" episode \"The Defender\", which starred Ralph Bellamy and William Shatner as the Prestons.\nThis series is not related to the 2010s CBS series of the same name.\nPlot.\nLawrence Preston (Marshall) and Kenneth Preston (Reed) are father-and-son defense attorneys who specialized in legally complex cases, with defendants such as neo-Nazis, conscientious objectors, demonstrators of the Civil Rights Movement, a schoolteacher fired for being an atheist, an author accused of pornography, and a physician charged in a mercy killing.\nCast.\nSeveral other actors appeared numerous times throughout the series. John Boruff, J.D. Cannon, Lonnie Chapman, and Ossie Davis each appeared in eight episodes; Walter Klavun appeared in seven episodes; Marc Connelly, Robert Gerringer, Murray Hamilton, Judson Laire, Kermit Murdock, Frank Overton, Lester Rawlins, and Dolph Sweet each appeared six times; and Simon Oakland, William Shatner (who had starred as Kenneth Preston in the original Studio One episode), and six others each appeared in five episodes.\nProduction.\nDevelopment.\nThe series was a slight reworking of Rose's 1957 two-part drama, \"The Defender\", from the anthology series \"Studio One\". In the original program, Ralph Bellamy played the father and William Shatner played his son. Shatner guest-starred in various roles in the later series, and the original drama later was incorporated into an episode of his series, \"Boston Legal\".\nAccording to creator Reginald Rose, \"the law is the subject of our programs: not crime, not mystery, not the courtroom for its own sake. We were never interested in producing a 'who-done-it' which simply happened to be resolved each week in a flashy courtroom battle of wits.\" And unlike \"Perry Mason\", which also ran on CBS, victory was \"far from certain on \"The Defenders\"\u2014as were morality and justice.\"\nTopics featured in the series included abortion, capital punishment, \"no-knock\" searches, custody rights of adoptive parents, the insanity defense, the \"poisoned fruit doctrine,\" immigration quotas, the Hollywood blacklist, jury nullification, and Cold War visa restrictions.\nWriters for the show included Rose in many early episodes, with later episodes by Albert \"Al\" Ruben and Ernest Kinoy\u00a0\u2013 both Jewish Americans holding socially liberal views. It was thought the move to \"ratings graveyard\" Thursday nights after a successful prime time reign on Saturday evenings was a conservative corporate device to force the socially conscious program into cancellation, which it ultimately did.\nControversial episodes.\nA 1962 episode entitled \"The Benefactor\"\u2014in which the father\u2013son legal team defended an abortion care provider\u2014was the most controversial; all of the series' three regular advertisers (Brown &amp; Williamson, Lever Brothers, and Kimberly-Clark) refused to sponsor the episode, so it was only transmitted after a last-minute sponsor was found, Speidel, for a discounted advertising rate. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation banned this episode when it was first shown on April 28. In 2008, this incident was used as the basis for a second season episode of the drama \"Mad Men\", set in the 1960s.\nThe December 7, 1963, episode, \"Climate of Evil,\" was originally titled \"The Gentle Assassin\" but was changed two weeks earlier in the aftermath of the John F. Kennedy assassination. In addition, the January 4, 1964, episode, \"Clare Cheval Died in Boston,\" was originally scheduled for the weekend of the assassination, and subsequently had reference to \"President Kennedy\" deleted from the episode.\nBroadcast history.\nNote: The most frequent time slot for the series is in bold text.\nReception.\nAwards.\n\"The Defenders\" won 14 Primetime Emmy Awards (including three in a row for Outstanding Drama Series) and received an additional eight nominations.\nThe Museum of Broadcast Communications called it \"perhaps the most socially conscious series the medium has ever seen\", a show \"singularly resonant with New Frontier liberalism\".\nIn 2002, \"The Defenders\" was ranked #31 on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time, and in 2013 \"TV Guide\" ranked it #8 in its list of The 60 Greatest Dramas of All Time, while the Writers Guild of America ranked it \u2013 and \"Gunsmoke\" \u2013 #84 on their list of the 101 Best Written TV Series.\nRatings.\nAs a top 30 series, \"The Defenders\" has an average rating of 23.2.\nHome media.\nOn July 12, 2016, Shout! Factory released the complete first season on DVD in Region 1.\nSequel and spin-offs.\nA re-envisioned version of the series aired on the Showtime network in 1997 as a trilogy of television films. Still called \"The Defenders\", it featured E. G. Marshall in his original role as Lawrence Preston. New co-stars were Beau Bridges as Don Preston, a previously unmentioned second son of Lawrence, and Martha Plimpton as M.J., the daughter of Ken Preston, who is said to have died (as had Reed in 1992). Don and M.J. worked as lawyers and carried on the family legacy. Marshall died after the completion of the second episode (\"Choice of Evils\"). Production was halted, and the remaining episode, \"Taking the First,\" aired as a movie special in 1998.\nReferences in other media.\nThe contains an episode named \"The Benefactor\" that featured a brief clip from \"The Defenders\" episode of the same name. In the \"Mad Men\" episode, the Sterling Cooper advertising agency is trying to secure sponsors for \"The Defenders\" episode, which contains a plot involving abortion (originally telecast on April 28, 1962), after the regular sponsors pulled out because they claimed the episode (and subject matter) was too controversial. The episode also offers a fictional backstory for the episode; that it was written for the third season of the series but rejected by the network for the usage of abortion as a plotline. The following season, the writers produced a script that revolved around the theme of cannibalism but the episode was rejected by the director who was assigned to film the episode due to the content. The director's refusal led to the network being forced to film the abortion-centric script, which an executive assigned to find advertisers for the show proclaims was the plan all along.\nIn his memoir, Randy Barnett, a law professor at Georgetown, credits watching \"The Defenders\" as a child as the inspiration for him to enter the legal profession.\n\"The Defenders\" is also referenced in a season three episode of \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\", \"Laura's Little Lie\", in which Laura Petrie (Mary Tyler Moore) asks her husband Rob (Dick Van Dyke) to \"stop acting like E.G. Marshall,\" to which Rob responds by asking her to \"stop acting like a guilty defendant.\""}
{"id": "708961", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708961", "title": "Song of the Mary White", "text": "\"Song of the \"Mary White\"\" is a ballad written in Broadstairs, England in the early 1850s.\nIt has been suggested that news of the loss of the Irish packet \"Royal Adelaide\" with 250 lives, on the sands off Margate on 6 April 1850, prompted Thomas White to present one of his lifeboats to his home town of Broadstairs that summer. The lifeboat saw its first use on 6 March 1851, when the brig \"Mary White\" became trapped on the Goodwin Sands during a severe gale blowing from the north. A ballad was written to celebrate the occasion, the \"Song of the \"Mary White\"\".\nThe lifeboat itself was subsequently named the \"Mary White\" in recognition of the strange coincidence of the recurrence of the name White in this story: Thomas and John the lifeboat builders, the name of the brig \"Mary White\", and also the name of its captain, Mr White."}
{"id": "708964", "revid": "51813028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708964", "title": "List of state roads in Indiana", "text": "State Roads in the U.S. state of Indiana are numbered rationally: in general, odd one-digit and two-digit highways are north\u2013south highways, numbers increasing toward the west; even one-digit and two-digit highways are east\u2013west highways, numbers increasing toward the south, the opposite of the Interstate Highway System. Three-digit highways are related, as a rule, to the single-digit or two-digit parent US or State Road; thus State Road\u00a0205 (SR\u00a0205) is related to SR\u00a05, and SR\u00a0120 is related to U.S. Highway\u00a020 (US\u00a020).\nExceptions to this system are SR\u00a037, SR\u00a047, SR\u00a056, SR\u00a057, SR\u00a062, and SR\u00a067, diagonal routes, the defunct SR\u00a0100 beltline around Indianapolis, SR\u00a0135 (which acts like a two-digit state highway), and both SR\u00a0149 and SR\u00a0249 (which are arterials between SR\u00a049 and SR\u00a051). Another exception to the system was SR\u00a0265; this highway was an extension that existed between Interstate 265 (I-265) and I-65 and is over east of either SR\u00a065 or SR\u00a0165, both located in Southwestern Indiana near Evansville. With the completion of the Lewis and Clark Bridge Indiana 265 now exists as a part of Interstate 265.\nThe numbers of several important U.S. Highways that travel through Indiana are not used as State Road numbers: these include 6, 12, 20, 24, 27, 30, 31, 33, 35, 36, 40, 41, 50, and 52. US\u00a040, in fact, roughly corresponds in location to where \"SR\u00a040\" would be; SR\u00a038 is north of it and SR\u00a042 is south of it. US\u00a06 is located similarly, and, in fact, follows the general course of former SR\u00a06."}
{"id": "708967", "revid": "43579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708967", "title": "Stellaria", "text": "Stellaria is a genus of about 190 species of flowering plants in the family Caryophyllaceae, with a cosmopolitan distribution. Common names include starwort, stitchwort and chickweed.\nDescription.\n\"Stellaria\" species are relatively small herbs with simple opposite leaves. It produces small flowers with 5 sepals and 5 white petals each usually deeply cleft, or none at all, all free. Stamens 10 or fewer.\nUses.\nSome species, including \"Stellaria media\" which is widely distributed throughout the Northern Hemisphere, are used as leaf vegetables, often raw in salads. This is a favored food of finches and many other seed-eating birds.\nChickweeds are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including angle shades, heart and dart, riband wave, setaceous Hebrew character and the \"Coleophora\" case-bearers \"C. coenosipennella\" (feeds exclusively on \"Stellaria\" species), \"C. lineolea\" (recorded on \"S. graminea\"), \"C. lithargyrinella\" (recorded on \"S. holostea\"), \"C. solitariella\" (feeds exclusively on \"S. holostea\") and \"C. striatipennella\".\nSeveral closely related plants referred to as chickweed, but which lack the culinary properties of plants in the genus \"Stellaria\", include members of the genus \"Cerastium\", of similar appearance to \"Stellaria\" and also in the (Caryophyllaceae).\nSpecies.\nThe following species are recognised in the genus \"Stellaria\":"}
{"id": "708968", "revid": "47054862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708968", "title": "Stitchwort", "text": "Stitchwort is the common name of over 190 plants of the following genera:"}
{"id": "708969", "revid": "577301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708969", "title": "List of plants known as chickweed", "text": "Chickweed is a common name most often applied to the plant species \"Stellaria media\". \"Stellaria media\" is a common weed in North America and Europe and is an edible plant.\nChickweed is sometimes used as a common name for several other plants, many of which are relatives of \"Stellaria media\" in the family Caryophyllaceae:"}
{"id": "708970", "revid": "51178919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708970", "title": "Taif Agreement", "text": "The 1989 Taif Agreement (, ), officially known as the (\")\", was reached to provide \"the basis for the ending of the civil war and the return to political normalcy in Lebanon\". Negotiated in Taif, Saudi Arabia, it was designed to end the 15 year-long Lebanese Civil War, and reassert the Lebanese government's authority in southern Lebanon, which was controlled at the time by the Christian-separatist South Lebanon Army under the occupational hegemony of Israel. Though the agreement set a time frame for withdrawal of Syrian military forces from Lebanon, stipulating that the Syrian occupation end within two years, Syria did not withdraw its forces from the country until 2005. It was signed on 22 October 1989 and ratified by the Lebanese parliament on 5 November, 1989.\nOverview.\nThe treaty was fathered by the Speaker of the Parliament Hussein El-Husseini and negotiated in Ta'if, Saudi Arabia, by the surviving members of Lebanon's 1972 parliament. The agreement came into effect with the active mediation of Saudi Arabia, discreet participation by the United States, and behind-the-scenes influence from Syria.\nThe agreement covered political reform, the ending of the Lebanese Civil War, the establishment of special relations between Lebanon and Syria, and a framework for the beginning of complete Syrian withdrawal from Lebanon. Since Rafik Hariri was a former Saudi diplomatic representative, he played a significant role in constructing the Taif Agreement. It is also argued that the Taif Accord reoriented Lebanon toward the Arab world, especially Syria. In other words, the Taif Accord positioned Lebanon as a country with \"an Arab identity and belonging.\" The agreement was finalized and confirmed only after the development of an anti-Saddam Hussein international alliance. The alliance included Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Syria, France, Iran and the United States.\nThe agreement formed the principle of \"mutual coexistence\" () between Lebanon's different sects and their \"proper political representation\" () as the main objective of post-civil war parliamentary electoral laws. It also restructured the National Pact political system in Lebanon by transferring some of the power away from the Maronite Christian community, which had been given a privileged status in Lebanon under the period of French rule. Prior to the agreement, the Sunni Muslim Prime Minister was appointed by and responsible to the Maronite President. After the Taif agreement the Prime Minister was responsible to the legislature, as in a traditional parliamentary system. Therefore, the agreement changed the power-sharing formula that had favoured the Christians to a 50:50 ratio and enhanced the powers of the Sunni Prime Minister over those of the Christian president. Prior to the Taif negotiations, a Maronite Christian, General Michel Aoun, had been appointed Prime Minister by President Amine Gemayel on 22 September 1988. This had caused a serious political crisis of a split premiership, as the post was reserved for a Sunni Muslim due to the National Pact of 1943, and Omar Karami held this office. The Taif agreement helped to overcome this crisis by preparing the election of a new president.\nThe agreement also provided for the disarmament of all national and non national militias. Hezbollah was allowed to stay armed in its capacity as a \"resistance force\" rather than a militia, fighting Israel in the south, a privilege obtained \u2013 according to the Swedish academic Magnus Ranstorp \u2013 in part by using its leverage as holder of a number of Western hostages. \nAlthough the Taif Agreement identified the abolition of political sectarianism as a national priority, it provided no timeframe for doing so. The Chamber of Deputies was increased in size to 128 members, shared equally between Christians and Muslims, rather than elected by universal suffrage that would have provided a Muslim majority (excluding the expatriate community, a majority of which is Christian). A cabinet was established similarly divided equally between Christians and Muslims.\nAccording to As'ad AbuKhalil, the agreement greatly diminished the power of the President to the benefit of the Council of Ministers, although there is ongoing debate about whether this power has shifted to the Council as a whole or the Prime Minister. The president, having had significant executive power prior to the agreement, was reduced to a figurehead with no real and/or considerable power, as in most parliamentary republics. He also noted that the agreement extended the term of the Speaker of the Lebanese Parliament from one year to four years, although the position \"remains largely without meaningful authority\".\nThe agreement was ratified on 5 November 1989. The Parliament met on the same day at the Qoleiat air base in North Lebanon and elected President Ren\u00e9 Moawad, 409 days after Amine Gemayel vacated this position upon the expiration of his term in 1988. Moawad was unable to occupy the Presidential Palace which was still in use by General Michel Aoun. Moawad was assassinated seventeen days later in a car bombing in Beirut on 22 November 1989 as his motorcade returned from Lebanese Independence Day ceremonies. He was succeeded by Elias Hrawi, who remained in office until 1998.\nPolitical reform.\nThe agreement contained multiple constitutional amendments, which came into force following President Hrawi's signature in September 1990. Among the most major changes:\nDisarmament of militias.\nHrawi\u2019s government set 30 April 1991 as the final date imposing the surrender of all territory, heavy artillery, and disbandment of militias.\nJbeil-Keserwan.\nThe LF had already agreed to hand over the Keserwan and Jbeil districts in April 1990 to the LAF under General Elie Hayek (Mount Lebanon commander), with the condition that its 10,000 men strong force remain intact.\nMetn-Baabda.\nIn 1989/90 the Metn and Baabda areas, which had been the heartland of the Phalange Party and the LF since the 1950s, experienced unprecedented fighting and shelling following Michel Aoun\u2019s offensives against Samir Geagea\u2019s LF. On 13 October 1990, during the Syrian assault on Baabda Palace, Aoun escaped to the French embassy. The LAF under General Elie Hayek began moving South from Kisrawan and East from Beirut into the Metn and Baabda. Following the battle for the Presidential Palace in which 150 of their soldiers were killed the Syrian army executed up to 80 of the defenders. Atrocities also occurred in the Metn where the SSNP and Hobeika\u2019s LF were at the forefront of the Syrian operations.\nEast/West Beirut.\nFollowing the end of the Elimination War on 13 October 1990, LAF soldiers began dismantling militia positions on the Green Line. Soon after, barrages and checkpoints blocking access between the cantons were dismantled, allowing traffic to move freely between the East and West for the first time since 1976. In addition, the LAF moved into Martyrs\u2019 Square, which had been the site of some of the most intense fighting in the entire Civil War.\nOn 3 December 1990 Samir Geagea\u2019s LF officially withdrew from East Beirut with a 2,000 man parade featuring hundreds of vehicles, including tanks and artillery. They also stripped Beirut port of all its equipment including cranes and tugboats.\nA few years later, the company Solidere would be mandated by the government to rebuild the completely destroyed downtown.\nAley-Chouf.\nThe LAF had not been present in the Chouf and most parts of Aley since 1975 when fighting first broke out; in addition, the area was devoid of Christians following the mountain war.\nOn 30 April 1991, the final date of militia disbandment, the Lebanese Army under the command of Hayek entered the Aley and Chouf districts, taking position at former PLA checkpoints and seizing all artillery material. The Chouf Mountains were the last areas of Mount Lebanon that the LAF moved into. Slowly after, Christians began returning to their homeland in these territories, but it was not until the Mountain Reconciliation in 2001 that the mass return of Christians was finalized.\nNorth (LF-held).\nUp until the 30 April 1991, all LF apparatus and positions were integrated into the national army. The army entered the districts of Bcharre (LF/Maronite heartland) to take command of any remaining positions, although there was no animosity or historic entrance as two presidents during the war (Bachir and Amine Gemayel) had been Phalangists, therefore army/LF cooperation had been an everyday affair.\nNorth (Syrian-held).\nMost Syrian troops withdrew from Akkar and Tripoli in the two years following Hrawi's signature of the Accord to Tartous governorate in Syria or the Beqaa Valley in Lebanon (as there was no time limit on their presence in the Beqaa).\nSouth.\nFrom 7 February 1991, the Lebanese army began deploying in villages next to the Israeli \u2018security zone\u2019. On 15 February Fatah fighters crushed a revolt by a group of their own members who refused to leave their positions in one of the villages. 10 people were killed in the fighting.\nOn 4 July 1991, following the failure of disarmament negotiations, as required by the Taif agreement, the Lebanese Army attacked Palestinian positions in Southern Lebanon. The offensive, involving 10,000 troops against an estimated 5,000 militia, lasted 3 days and ended with the Army taking all the Palestinian positions around Sidon. In the agreement that followed all heavy weapons were surrendered and infantry weapons only allowed in the two refugee camps, Ain al-Hilweh and Mieh Mieh. 73 people were killed in the fighting, and 200 wounded, mostly Palestinian.\nAs the South was occupied by Israel and the South Lebanon Army (SLA) militia, the army was not deployed there until the year 2000, when Israel and the SLA retreated South of the Blue Line. As a result of the occupation in 1989, the Taif Agreement enabled \"resistance\" groups to remain armed in the South until Israeli withdrawal (principally Hezbollah).\nThe LAF entered the South in 2000 for the first time since 1976 \u2013 34 years after it retreated following the Palestinian insurgency in South Lebanon.\nDespite the IDF withdrawal in 2000, Hezbollah did not disarm - with approval from President Lahoud and Syria - in violation of the Taif Accord, but in agreement with international law.\nBeqaa Valley.\nThe agreement stipulated the withdrawal of all Syrian troops to the Beqaa valley by 2 years at most, but did not provide a time frame for their full withdrawal of the country. This loophole enabled the Syrian Arab Army to occupy the Beqaa for the next 15 years and dominate political life for the same period, until its complete retreat in March 2005 following the Cedar Revolution and UN Resolution 1559."}
{"id": "708972", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708972", "title": "Classical theory", "text": ""}
{"id": "708973", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708973", "title": "Leawarra railway station", "text": "Leawarra station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Stony Point line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the south-eastern suburb of Frankston in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Leawarra station is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring one side platform. It opened on 30 November 1959, with the current station provided in 2008. It initially closed on 22 June 1981, then reopened on 27 September 1984.\nInitially opened as Rail Motor Stopping Place No. 16, the station was given its current name of Leawarra in 1962.\nThe station serves the nearby Peninsula Campus of Monash University.\nLangwarrin, a closed station on the Stony Point line, was located between Leawarra and Baxter.\nHistory.\nLeawarra station opened on 30 November 1959 as Rail Motor Stopping Place No. 16. On 24 April 1961, a platform was provided to replace the stopping place. The following year, it was renamed Leawarra.\nOn 22 June 1981, the passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line began and, on 27 September of that year, the passenger service was reinstated.\nIn 1988, the platform was extended to accommodate a DRC railcar with an MTH carriage. Even then, at , it was the shortest platform in Victoria with a regular rail passenger service. In 1989, boom barriers were provided at the nearby McMahons Road and Hillcrest Road level crossings, located in the up and down directions of the station respectively.\nIn 2008, when Sprinter trains were introduced on the Stony Point line, the platform was again extended, and is now long.\nPlatforms, facilities and services.\nLeawarra has one platform, and is located on Bloom Street, which provides access. It has a small passenger shelter, and a myki ticket machine under another shelter. It is served by Stony Point line trains.\nTransport links.\nCranbourne Transit operates three bus routes via Leawarra station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708974", "revid": "50679310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708974", "title": "Rapini", "text": "Rapini (broccoli rabe or raab; ) is a green cruciferous vegetable, with the leaves, buds, and stems all being edible; the buds somewhat resemble broccoli. Rapini is known for its bitter taste, and is particularly associated with Mediterranean cuisine. It is a particularly rich dietary source of vitamin K.\nClassification.\nNative to Europe, the plant is a member of the tribe Brassiceae of the Brassicaceae (mustard family). Rapini is classified scientifically as \"Brassica rapa\" var. \"ruvo\", or \"Brassica rapa\" subsp. \"sylvestris\" var. \"esculenta\". It is also known as broccoletti, broccoli raab, broccoli rabe, spring raab, and ruvo kale. Turnip and bok choy are different varieties (or subspecies) of this species.\nDescription.\nRapini has many spiked leaves that surround clusters of green buds that resemble small heads of broccoli. Small, edible yellow flowers may be blooming among the buds.\nNutrition.\nRaw rapini (broccoli raab) is 93% water, 3% each of protein and carbohydrates, and contains negligible fat (table). In a reference amount of , raw rapini supplies of food energy, and is a rich source (20% or more of the Daily Value, DV) of vitamin K (187% DV), vitamin C (22% DV), and folate (21% DV) (table). Vitamin A, vitamin E, and several B vitamins, along with the dietary minerals, iron and manganese, are in moderate amounts (10\u201319% DV) (table).\nCulinary use.\nThe flavor of rapini has been described as nutty, bitter, and pungent, as well as almond-flavored. Rapini needs little more than a trim at the base. The entire stalk is edible when young, but the base becomes more fibrous as the season advances.\nRapini is widely used in the cuisine of Rome as well as Southern Italy, particularly in the regions of Sicily, Calabria, Campania, Apulia, In Apulia, their names are either \"cime di rapa\" or \"broccoletti\"; in Naples, the green's name is \"friarielli\". In Campania, it is closely associated with \"braciole\" and sausages, such that food writer Arthur Schwartz reports, \"it is almost unthinkable to eat [those meats] without a side of [rapini].\" In Portuguese cuisine, \"grelos de nabo\" are similar in taste and texture to broccoli rabe. Rapini is also popular in the Galicia region of northwestern Spain; a rapini festival (\"Feira do grelo\") is held in the Galician town of As Pontes every February.\nRapini may be saut\u00e9ed or braised with olive oil and garlic, and sometimes chili pepper and anchovy. It may be used as an ingredient in soup, served with orecchiette, other pasta, or pan-fried sausage. Rapini is sometimes (but not always) blanched before being cooked further.\nIn the United States, rapini is popular in Italian American cuisine; the D'Arrigo Brothers popularized the ingredient in the United States and gave it the name \"broccoli rabe\". Broccoli rabe is a component of some hoagies and submarine sandwiches; in Philadelphia, a popular sandwich is Italian-style roast pork with locally made sharp provolone cheese, broccoli rabe, and peppers. Rapini can also be a component of pasta dishes, especially when accompanied by Italian sausage."}
{"id": "708975", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708975", "title": "Baxter railway station", "text": "Baxter station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Stony Point line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the town and suburb of Baxter, in Victoria, Australia. It opened on 1 October 1888, with the current station provided in 1984. The station was initially closed on 22 June 1981, then was reopened on 27 September 1984.\nInitially opened as Mornington Junction, the station was given its current name of Baxter on 6 May 1918.\nLangwarrin, a now demolished station on the Stony Point line, was located between Leawarra and Baxter.\nHistory.\nBaxter station opened on 1 October 1888, when the railway line from Frankston was extended. It remained a terminus until 10 September 1889, when the line was extended to Hastings and Mornington. Like the town itself, the station was named after Captain Benjamin Baxter, who was the proprietor of the nearby \"Carrup Carrup\" pastoral run.\nIn 1972, flashing light signals were provided at the Baxter-Tooradin Road level crossing, located nearby in the Stony Point (down) direction of the station.\nBaxter was formerly the junction for the Mornington line, which was closed to traffic in 1981. The junction, which was relocated in 1962, existed at the down end of the station, though the points were spiked and the line baulked just after the level crossing. In the near future, this junction will be reinstated by the extension of the Mornington Railway, a heritage railway organisation.\nOn 22 June 1981, the passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line began and, on 27 September of that year, the passenger service was reinstated.\nBy March 1989, the station operated under no-one in charge conditions.\nIn 2009, boom barriers were provided at the Baxter-Tooradin Road level crossing.\nIn 2023, the Victorian branch of the Liberal Party stated that the journey to Baxter was \"too slow\" and urgent upgrades to the line were needed.\nAlso occurring in that year, the points for the junction were abolished, with the line straight railed.\nPlatforms and services.\nBaxter has one platform. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Stony Point line services.\nTransport links.\nVentura Bus Lines operates one bus route via Baxter station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708978", "revid": "45215721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708978", "title": "Somerville railway station", "text": "Somerville station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Stony Point line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the town of the same name in Victoria, Australia. Somerville is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring one side platform. It opened on 10 September 1889.\nHistory.\nSomerville station opened when the railway line from Baxter was extended to Hastings. Like the town itself, the station was named after Sir William Meredyth Somerville, an Anglo-Irish Member of the British Parliament, for Drogheda between 1837 and 1852, and Canterbury, between 1854 and 1865.\nThe station opened due to rapid growth in the fruit (apples and pears) and dairy industries. The dairy industry needed a quick way of sending milk and cream to butter factories.\nWhen the railway line reached Somerville, the station was some distance from the local school and hall which, at the time, were located on Lower Somerville Road. The town centre moved from there to its current site, adjacent to the station.\nIn the early years, Somerville station also operated as a post and telegraph office, and was a centre where people met as they collected their mail. The provision of special railway sidings serving new packing sheds and cool stores, over a period of six years from 1914 to 1920, supported the expansion in the apple and pear growing industry. The advent of iced T-vans made it possible to quickly transport fruit to Melbourne docks, to be loaded directly into refrigerated ships for overseas destinations.\nUp until the end of World War II, a special train ran to the horticultural show at Somerville, which was reputed to be one of the biggest of its kind in Australia. The railway line also helped the fruit tree nurseries, and family-operated companies, such as Brunnings, Shepherds, Unthanks, Coles and Grants. They sent hundreds of thousands of bare-rooted trees to places such as the Goulburn Valley, the Murray Valley, and Sunraysia areas in Victoria, the Riverina districts of New South Wales, and to the Granite Belt area, centred on Stanthorpe in Queensland. The traffic was seasonal, and occurred from May to September.\nThe station building on the platform at Somerville was portable, meaning that it was delivered in sections and bolted together. It contained an office and a safeworking area, from which the staff and ticket system was operated. There was a van shed for small goods and parcels, two waiting rooms, one exclusively for the ladies and a general waiting room, and toilets. The building existed until February 1986, when it was replaced with an aluminium building. In the station yard, there was a general goods shed, a loading ramp, a crane, and a livestock loading facility. Later, two sidings were built for the Somerville Co-operative Cool Stores. By 2008, the up end connection to the yard was removed.\nThe station master's house was at the Frankston-Flinders Road entrance to the station. Two Somerville youths set fire to the house during August 2009 and it was completely destroyed. The offenders were apprehended.\nThe station was usually staffed by a station master but, on occasions over the years, he was assisted by a lad porter or assistant station master from Baxter. Somerville was the banking station for all stations to Stony Point, and supplied some of them with stores and stationery. Safeworking was originally by the staff and ticket system, but that was varied from time to time, until the opening of the Long Island sidings, when the electric staff system was introduced.\nIn 1961, flashing light signals were installed at the Eramosa Road level crossing, located nearby in the up direction from the station.\nOn 22 June 1981, the passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line began and, on 27 September of that year, the passenger service was reinstated.\nIn 1991, boom barriers were provided at the Eramosa Road level crossing.\nPlatforms and services.\nSomerville has one platform and is served by Stony Point line trains.\nTransport links.\nVentura Bus Lines operates two routes via Somerville station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708980", "revid": "40428319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708980", "title": "Tyabb railway station", "text": "Tyabb station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Stony Point line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the town of Tyabb in Victoria, Australia. Tyabb is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring one side platform. It opened on 10 September 1889, with the current station provided in 1986. It initially closed on 22 June 1981, then reopened on 27 September 1984.\nHistory.\nTyabb station opened on 10 September 1889, when the railway line from Baxter was extended to Hastings. Like the town itself, the station has an Aboriginal name meaning 'waterholes' or 'mudhole'.\nSignals were once provided at the station, however they were abolished in 1947.\nIn 1966, flashing light signals were provided at the Mornington\u2013Tyabb Road level crossing, located nearby in the down direction of the station.\nOn 22 June 1981, the passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line began and, on 27 September of that year, the passenger service was reinstated.\nUntil February 1986, the station consisted of a waiting room, basic toilets and a ticket office. As part of a government rationalisation of public transport, these facilities were no longer deemed necessary, and the buildings were demolished and replaced with the current shelters.\nIn 2008, boom barriers were provided at the Mornington\u2013Tyabb Road level crossing.\nPlatforms and services.\nTyabb has one platform. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Stony Point line services.\nTransport links.\nVentura Bus Lines operates two routes via Tyabb station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708981", "revid": "161142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708981", "title": "VIRGO", "text": ""}
{"id": "708982", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708982", "title": "Hastings railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Hastings station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Stony Point line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It opened on 10 September 1889 and serves the town of the same name in Victoria, Australia. \nThe station, along with the line, was closed on 22 June 1981, but both were reopened on 27 September 1984. Hastings station once had a goods yard opposite the platform, which has been closed and the tracks removed. A disused crane remains on site. The station building dating from 1986 was burned down on 21 December 2024.\nHistory.\nHastings station opened when the railway line was extended to there from Baxter. It remained a terminus until 17 December of that year, when the line was further extended to Stony Point. Like the town itself, the station was named after Hastings in Sussex, England.\nIn 1962, flashing light warning signals were provided at the High Street level crossing, located nearby in the down direction from the station. In 1973, a number of roads in the former goods yard were extended.\nOn 22 June 1981, the rail passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service, with the line between Long Island Junction and Stony Point also closing on the same day. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line to Stony Point began and, on 27 September of that year, the rail passenger service was reinstated.\nIn February 1986, the current station building was provided, replacing the original timber building.\nIn 1998, boom barriers were provided at the High Street level crossing.\nIn 2004, points at the up and down ends of the station were removed, and the track was straight railed.\nIn the early hours of 21 December 2024, the station building was destroyed by fire, which led to temporary closure of the station and the suspension of services on the Stony Point line for a day.\nPlatforms and services.\nHastings has one platform and is served by Stony Point line trains.\nTransport links.\nVentura Bus Lines operates one route via Hastings station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708985", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708985", "title": "Sammy Fain", "text": "Sammy Fain (born Samuel E. Feinberg; June 17, 1902 \u2013 December 6, 1989) was an American composer of popular music. In the 1920s and early 1930s, he contributed numerous songs that form part of The Great American Songbook, and to Broadway theatre.\nEarly life and collaborations.\nSammy Fain was born in New York City, to a family that was deeply rooted in the world of show business. His uncle, for instance, Willie Howard, was a Vaudeville performer. As a young man, Fain taught himself to play the piano. Although he couldn't read music well, he had a natural talent for coming up with memorable melodies in the spur of the moment. In 1925, he composed his first piece: \"Nobody Knows What a Red-headed Mama Can Do.\"\nUntil 1942, Fain worked extensively in collaboration with Irving Kahal. In the late 1920s, they created works including \"Wedding Bells are Breaking Up That Old Gang of Mine\" and \"Let a Smile Be Your Umbrella.\" Fain and Kahal also collaborated to write pieces for the play \"Right This Way\", such as \"I Can Dream, Can't I?\" and \"I'll Be Seeing You.\" The latter was especially popular during WWII, as it perfectly reflected the feelings of many American wives whose husbands were off fighting.\nFilm works.\nFain also composed music for more than 30 films in the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s. He was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song ten times. Of those ten nominations, two of the pieces were selected as winning works: \"Secret Love\" from \"Calamity Jane\" won in 1953, and \"Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing\" won in 1955. Both of these pieces were co-written with lyricist Paul Francis Webster, another long-time collaborator. Fain also contributed to the song scores for the Walt Disney animated films \"Alice in Wonderland\", \"Peter Pan\", and \"The Rescuers\" (the latter, soon to be his last effort, also earned him another Oscar nomination). \nFurther recognitions.\nIn 1972, he was inducted into The Songwriters Hall of Fame.\nDeath.\nFain died from a heart attack in Los Angeles, California and was interred at Cedar Park Cemetery, in Emerson, New Jersey."}
{"id": "708986", "revid": "1952032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708986", "title": "Children of Osiris", "text": ""}
{"id": "708987", "revid": "19235292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708987", "title": "Hugo Enomiya-Lassalle", "text": "Hugo Makibi Enomiya-Lassalle (11 November 1898 in Gut Externbrock near Nieheim, Westphalia \u2013 7 July 1990 in M\u00fcnster, Westphalia) was a German Jesuit priest and one of the foremost teachers to embrace both Roman Catholic Christianity and Zen Buddhism.\nBiography.\nHugo Lassalle passed his school days from 1911 to 1916 at the Gymnasium Petrinum in Brilon in 1917. Because of an injury in the First World War, Hugo Lassalle was admitted to the military hospital of Brilon in 1917. Enomiya-Lassalle joined the Society of Jesus on 25 April 1919. At the end of the usual Jesuit spiritual and academic training he was ordained priest on 28 August 1927.\nHe travelled to Japan as a missionary in 1929 and became interested in that country's Buddhist practices. In 1940, he became the vicar of Hiroshima, and on 6 August 1945 he was critically wounded by the nuclear blast in that city. Shortly thereafter, he returned to Germany.\nIn September 1946, he had an audience with Pope Pius XII, in which he revealed his plan to build in Hiroshima a cathedral dedicated to the idea of world peace. Designed by Japanese architect Togo Murano, construction on the cathedral began in 1950 and on 6 August 1954, the Memorial Cathedral for World Peace () was dedicated.\nIn 1956, Enomiya-Lassalle began studying Zen with Harada Daiun Sogaku. In 1958, he published \"Zen: A Way to Enlightenment\".\nFollowing Harada's death in 1961, Enomiya-Lassalle became an apprentice of one of Harada's students, Yamada K\u014dun. Yamada was enthusiastic about the possibilities of Zen as a Christian practice, believing that \"Zen would become an important stream in the Catholic Church one day\". With Enomiya-Lassalle's active assistance, he attracted a number of Catholic priests and nuns as students. In the late 1960s, Enomiya-Lasalle was certified as a teacher in Yamada's Sanbo Kyodan sect and given the title \"roshi\" (Zen master), while professing his continued belief in Christianity. After 1968, Enomiya-Lassalle spent much of his time in Europe leading Zen retreats and encouraging Zen practice among Christians. His books influenced symphony conductor Herbert von Karajan to study Zen and incorporate a Zen mindset into his conducting."}
{"id": "708988", "revid": "7320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708988", "title": "Samuel Fain", "text": ""}
{"id": "708989", "revid": "50095700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708989", "title": "Drums in communication", "text": "Developed and used by cultures living in forested areas, drums served as an early form of long-distance communication, and were used during ceremonial and religious functions.\nTypes.\nTalking drum.\nWhile the tone and articulation of the hourglass-shaped talking drum can be finely controlled, it cannot be heard at distances beyond a gathering or market-place, and it is primarily used in ceremonial settings. Ceremonial functions could include dance, rituals, story-telling and communication of points of order.\nSome of the groups of variations of the talking drum among West African ethnic groups:\nIn the 20th century the talking drums have become a part of popular music in West Africa, especially in the music genres of J\u00f9j\u00fa (Nigeria) and Mbalax (Senegal).\nSlit gongs.\nMessage drums, or more properly slit gongs, with hollow chambers and long, narrow openings that resonate when struck, are larger all-wood instruments hollowed out from a single log. Slit-log drums are common in the drum communication systems of Papua New Guinea, where they are known in Tok Pisin as \"garamut\". Variations in the thickness of the walls give varying tones when struck by the heavy wooden drum sticks. While some are simple and utilitarian, they can also be highly elaborate works of sculpture while still retaining their function.\nA long slit is cut in one side of a log, then it is hollowed out through the slit, leaving lips (wooden ledges) on each side of the opening. Using a larger log enables a louder sound that can be heard over longer distances. By hollowing more under one lip and less under the other, the drum can be tuned to produce two different notes, a lower and a higher one. The drum's lips are hit with sticks, beating out rhythms of high and low notes. Small stands are often placed under each end of the drum to keep it off the ground and let it vibrate more freely.\nUnder ideal conditions, the sound can be understood at , but interesting messages usually get relayed on by the next village. Drums used by the Bulu people of Cameroon might be heard as far away as 10 to 15 miles at night, compared to three to four during daytime.\nCambarysu.\nThe Catuquinaru tribe of Brazil reportedly used a drum called the cambarysu to send vibrations through the ground to other cambarysus up to 1.5\u00a0km away. Some scholars expressed skepticism about the claim that it sent vibrations through the ground (rather than the air), and about the claim that it existed.\nIn Africa, New Guinea and tropical areas of America, people have used drum telegraphy for centuries to communicate over long distances. When European expeditions came into the jungles to explore, they were surprised to find that people already knew they were coming and what their intentions were. By repeating a message in turn from one nearby location to another, African drummers can transmit that message a total distance of 100 miles in about an hour.\nAmong the famous communication drums are the drums of West Africa (see talking drum). From regions known today as Nigeria and Ghana they spread across West Africa, and to the America and the Caribbean during the slave trade. There they were banned because they were being used by the slaves to communicate over long distances in a code unknown to their enslavers.\nTalking drums were also used in East Africa and are described by Andreus Bauer in the 'Street of Caravans', about his time as a security guard in the Wissmann Truppe for the caravan of Charles Stokes.\nWhat is transmitted.\nDrum communication methods are not languages in their own right, though they can be based on spoken languages. In such cases, the sounds produced are conventionalized or idiomatic signals based on speech patterns. The drummed messages are normally very stereotyped and context-dependent; speakers of true languages have the ability to form new combinations and expressions that will immediately be understood by the listener, but that is not the case in drum communication.\nIn Central and East Africa, drum patterns represent the stresses, syllable lengths and tone of the particular language. In tone languages, where syllables are associated with a certain tone, some words are distinguished only by their suprasegmental profile. Therefore, syllable drum languages can often transfer a message using the tonal phonemes alone.\nIn certain languages, the pitch of each syllable is uniquely determined in relation to adjacent syllables. In these cases, messages can be transmitted as rapid beats at the same speed as speech, as the rhythm and melody both match the equivalent spoken utterance.\nMisinterpretations can occur due to the highly ambiguous nature of the communication. The ambiguity is reduced by context effects and the use of stock phrases. For example, in Jabo, most stems are monosyllabic. By using a proverb or honorary title to create an expanded version of the name of a person, animal, or object, the indistinguishable single beat of an ordinary name can be replaced with a particular rhythmic and melodic motif for each subject. In practice not all listeners understand all of the stock phrases; the drum language is understood only to the level of each person's immediate concern."}
{"id": "708991", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708991", "title": "Message drum", "text": ""}
{"id": "708993", "revid": "82329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708993", "title": "Aggregation (music)", "text": ""}
{"id": "708994", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708994", "title": "Bittern railway station", "text": "Bittern station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Stony Point line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the town of Bittern in Victoria, Australia. Bittern is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring one side platform. It opened on 17 December 1889, with the current station provided in 1986. It initially closed on 22 June 1981, then reopened on 27 September 1984.\nHistory.\nBittern station opened on 17 December 1889, when the railway line from Hastings was extended to Stony Point. Like the town itself, the station was named after the bird family of the same name.\nBetween 1921 and 1953, Bittern was the junction for a branch line to Red Hill.\nOn 22 June 1981, the passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service, with the line between Long Island Junction and Stony Point also closing on the same day. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line began and, on 27 September of that year, the passenger service was reinstated. Also occurring in that year, flashing light signals were provided at the nearby Woolleys Road level crossing, located in the down direction of the station. In February 1986, the current passenger shelters were provided, replacing the original timber station building.\nIn 1991, a siding at the station was abolished.\nIn 2010, boom barriers were provided at the Woolleys Road level crossing.\nPlatforms and services.\nBittern has one platform. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Stony Point line services.\nTransport links.\nVentura Bus Lines operates one bus route via Bittern station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "708996", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708996", "title": "James Williams (Delaware politician)", "text": "James Williams (August 4, 1825 \u2013 April 12, 1899) was an American farmer and politician. He was a member of the Democratic Party, who served in the Delaware General Assembly and as U. S. Representative from Delaware.\nEarly life and family.\nWilliams was born on August 4, 1825, in Philadelphia, to John (1775\u20131849) and Esther Williams. His father was a lumber merchant, and his early education was by private tutoring. He first became an apprentice carpenter, intending to become an architect. In 1848 his father bought a large estate in Kent County, Delaware and young Williams moved to Kenton to take up farming and manage the property.\nProfessional and political career.\nWilliams became politically active in the Democratic Party, and was elected to the Delaware House of Representatives, serving in 1857/1858, 1863/1864 and 1883/84. He next served in the State Senate from 1891/92, and was the Speaker of the Senate for 1869/70. In 1872, he was a delegate to the party's national convention which nominated Horace Greeley for U.S. president. Williams was twice elected as Delaware's only member in the United States House of Representatives, serving in two terms from 1875 until 1879, in the 44th and 45th Congress under U.S. Presidents Ulysses S. Grant and Rutherford B. Hayes.\nHe remained a farmer throughout his public service. After returning to private life he expanded into fertilizer manufacturing, and increased his farm holdings in Delaware and Maryland. In 1891 he moved to Smyrna, Delaware, but continued farming for the rest of his life.\nDeath and legacy.\nWilliams died on April 12, 1899, in Smyrna, Delaware, and is buried there, at the St. Peter's Episcopal Church Cemetery.\nElectoral history.\n&lt;br&gt;"}
{"id": "708997", "revid": "99764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708997", "title": "Cosmo's Factory", "text": "Cosmo's Factory is the fifth studio album by the American rock band Creedence Clearwater Revival, released by Fantasy Records on July 8, 1970. Six of the album's eleven tracks were released as singles in 1970, and all of them charted in the top 5 of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The album spent nine consecutive weeks in the number one position on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart and was certified 4\u00d7 platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in 1990. \"Rolling Stone\" ranked it number 413 on its 2020 list of the \"500 Greatest Albums of All Time\".\nBackground.\n\"Cosmo's Factory\" was CCR's fifth album in two years to became an international success, topping the album charts in six countries. \nSongs.\n\"Cosmo's Factory\" displays the wide range of musical ingredients that provided the foundation for their \"swamp rock\" sound: R&amp;B (\"Before You Accuse Me\", \"My Baby Left Me\"), soul (\"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\", \"Long As I Can See the Light\"), country (\"Lookin' Out My Back Door\"), rockabilly and classic rock and roll (\"Ooby Dooby\", \"Travelin' Band\"), and psychedelia (\"Ramble Tamble\").\n\"Travelin' Band\" was inspired by 1950s rock 'n' roll songs, particularly those by Little Richard. In October 1972, the company that held the publishing rights to Richard's \"Good Golly, Miss Molly\" felt \"Travelin' Band\" bore enough similarities to warrant a plagiarism lawsuit that was later settled out of court. The song's flip side, \"Who'll Stop the Rain\", could not have been more different, with Fogerty telling \"Uncut\" in 2012: \"'Travelin' Band' was my salute to Little Richard, but 'Who'll Stop The Rain?' was part of the fabric of the times. From '68 to '74, Vietnam was probably the most important thing on the minds of young people.\" \"Run Through the Jungle\" mined similar territory, with many listeners believing the lyrics to be about the war (although the song was actually about the prevalence of guns in the United States). According to the band's bassist Stu Cook, the song's opening and closing both feature jungle sound effects created by \"lots of backwards recorded guitar and piano.\" The song was rhythm guitarist Tom Fogerty's favorite CCR song: \"My all-time favorite Creedence tune was 'Run Through the Jungle'. It's like a little movie in itself with all the sound effects. It never changes key, but it holds your interest the whole time. It's like a musician's dream. It never changes key, yet you get the illusion it does.\"\n\"Lookin' Out My Back Door\" was a direct tribute to the Bakersfield Sound, a style of music that influenced John Fogerty and the Creedence sound \u2013 Buck Owens, one of the architects of the Bakersfield Sound, is even mentioned in the lyrics. The song is known for its upbeat tempo, its down-home feel, and a change in key and tempo towards the end. The lyrics, filled with colorful, dream-like imagery, led some to believe the song was about drugs (according to the drug theory, the \"flying spoon\" in the song was a cocaine spoon, and the crazy animal images were an acid trip). Fogerty, however, has repeatedly stated in interviews that the song was actually written for his son Josh, who was three years old at the time, and said the reference to a parade passing by was inspired by the Dr. Seuss book \"And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street\".\nAlthough CCR was well-known for its concise, tightly arranged songs, \"Cosmo's Factory\" features two longer cuts: the seven-minute opener, \"Ramble Tamble\", and an 11-minute cover of Marvin Gaye's \"I Heard It Through the Grapevine\". \nSeveral songs on the album pay tribute to the band's blues and rock and roll roots, including Big Arthur Crudup's \"My Baby Left Me\" (a notable cover of which had previously been recorded by Elvis Presley), Bo Diddley's \"Before You Accuse Me\", and the rockabilly classic \"Ooby Dooby\".\nAlbum title and artwork.\nThe name of the album comes from the warehouse in Berkeley where the band rehearsed early in their career, which was dubbed \"The Factory\" by drummer Doug \"Cosmo\" Clifford, because bandleader John Fogerty made them practice there almost every day. In 2013, Clifford recalled to \"Goldmine\" that \"John knew the press would be all over us for the album, so he said that he would name the album after me and that I would have to deal with it. He wanted the pressure off of him. It was our biggest album ever and I tell people that they named it after me, so it had to be a hit [laughter]. That's a joke!\"\nThe cover photo was taken by Bob Fogerty, brother of John and Tom. As David Cavanagh of \"Uncut\" wrote in 2012: \"The album's front cover showed the four of them caught by a camera in an off-duty moment, a proudly uncool quartet who looked more like lumberjacks than rock stars.\" The handwritten sign affixed to the support post at the left of the photo that reads \"3RD GENERATION\" is an ironic reference to something rock music critic Ralph Gleason wrote in the liner notes of the band's debut album: \"Creedence Clearwater Revival is an excellent example of the Third Generation of San Francisco bands\".\nCritical reception.\nIn its original review, \"Rolling Stone\" wrote: \"It should be obvious by now that Creedence Clearwater Revival is one great rock and roll band. \"Cosmo's Factory\", the group's fifth album, is another good reason why.\"\nAllMusic rates the album 5 out of 5 stars: \"On 'Long as I Can See the Light', the record's final song, he again finds solace in home, anchored by a soulful, laid-back groove. It hits a comforting, elegiac note, the perfect way to draw \"Cosmo's Factory\" \u2013 an album made during stress and chaos, filled with raging rockers, covers, and intense jams \u2013 to a close.\" \nAccolades.\nIn 2014, \"Cosmo's Factory\" was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame.\nIn 2003, the album was ranked number 265 on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of the 500 greatest albums of all time; it was re-ranked number 413 on the revised 2020 list.\nCommercial performance.\nIn January 1970, the double A-sided \"Travelin' Band\"/\"Who'll Stop the Rain\" single peaked at number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. In April, the band released the double A-sided \"Up Around the Bend\"/\"Run Through the Jungle\" single, which reached number four on the Hot 100, and started their first tour of Europe. \"Cosmo's Factory\" was released in July 1970, as was the band's ninth single, \"Lookin' Out My Back Door\"/\"Long as I Can See the Light\", which reached number two on the Hot 100.\nThe album was certified gold (500,000 units sold) by the Recording Industry Association of America on December 16, 1970. Almost 20 years later, on December 13, 1990, it received a certification of four times platinum, indicating sales of over four million copies.\nPersonnel.\nSource:\nCreedence Clearwater Revival\nProduction"}
{"id": "708998", "revid": "7320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708998", "title": "Sammy Feinberg", "text": ""}
{"id": "708999", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708999", "title": "Morradoo railway station", "text": "Morradoo station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Stony Point line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the town of Crib Point in Victoria, Australia. Morradoo is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring one side platform. It opened on 7 November 1960, with the current station provided in 1996.\nInitially opened as Rail Motor Stopping Place No. 15, the station was given its current name of Morradoo in 1996.\nHistory.\nBy November 1963, an platform was provided at the stopping place. In December 1973, flashing light signals were provided at the Disney Road level crossing, located at the up end of the station.\nOn 22 June 1981, the passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service, with the line between Long Island Junction and Stony Point also closing on the same day. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line began and, on 27 September of that year, the rail passenger service was reinstated.\nIn 1996, the platform was extended to 52 metres in length, and a new passenger shelter was erected. That made the platform the second-shortest with a regular service in Victoria (the shortest being at Leawarra, also on the same line). In that same year, the station was renamed as the result of a local competition, with the winning entry being Morradoo, suggested by Bree Saunders of Crib Point Primary School. Morradoo comes from an Indigenous word meaning \"powder and shot\", and was the original name for Crib Point.\nIn 2011, boom barriers were provided at the Disney Road level crossing.\nPlatforms and services.\nMorradoo has one platform. It is served by Stony Point line trains.\nTransport links.\nVentura Bus Lines operates one route via Morradoo station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709002", "revid": "6938174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709002", "title": "Slit gong", "text": ""}
{"id": "709003", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709003", "title": "Indiana State Road 120", "text": "State Road 120 (SR 120) is a state road in the northeastern section of the state of Indiana. Running for about in a general east\u2013west direction, connecting rural portions of Elkhart, LaGrange and Steuben counties. The western terminus is a junction with Jackson Boulevard and Middleton Run Road in Elkhart. The eastern terminus is at the Indiana\u2013Michigan border, east of Fremont.\nThe modern route of SR 120 was originally just small part of a much longer Native American trail. In the early 1920s a project to construct a road replacing the Native American trail took place. SR 120 was introduced in 1937 routed along its current routing, as a state road number for Vistula Road, which was falling apart. The western end of SR 120 has been moved a couple of different times within the city of Elkhart.\nRoute description.\nSR 120 begins in Elkhart at the intersection of Middleton Run Road and Jackson Boulevard. It follows Jackson Boulevard, northeasterly paralleling the St. Joseph River and the Grand Elk Railroad. The road leaves the city of Elkhart and enters Elkhart County before entering the town of Bristol. In Bristol the road runs along Vistula Street and has a short concurrency with SR 15. As SR 120 leaves Bristol it crosses over the Grand Elk Railroad. East of Bristol SR 120 curves and becomes an east\u2013west roadway, passing through rural Elkhart and LaGrange Counties, having intersections with SR 13 and SR 5. In LaGrange county the road enters the town of Howe, passing through an intersection with SR 9. After the SR 9 intersection SR 120 is concurrent with Defiance Street, until SR 120 turns south onto 3rd Street, before turning east again on Wayne Street.\nEast of Howe SR 120 passes north of Ontario and through an intersection with the northern end of SR 3 near Brighton. Then, upon entering Steuben County, SR 120 enters the town of Orland on Toledo Street, before having a four-way stop with SR 327. After SR 327, SR 120 leaves Orland heading northeasterly before turning easterly again, closely paralleling the Indiana Toll Road. SR 120 passes through an intersection with the northern end of SR 127, before crossing over Interstate 69. After Interstate 69, SR 120 has an entrance to the Indiana Toll Road and then passes under the toll road. SR 120 enters the town of Fremont, running along Toledo Street, having an all-way stop with the northern end of SR 827 (Wayne Street). After Fremont SR 120 passes near Clear Lake, as the road turns towards the southeast. Before the Indiana-Michigan state line SR 120 has an intersection with the former northern end of SR 1. At the Indiana-Michigan border SR 120 becomes Territorial Road, a county road in Hillsdale County, Michigan; this roadway was formerly M-120 which connected to OH-120.\nHistory.\nThe first path along part of the modern SR 120 roadway was the Vistula Trail, an old Native American trail, between Fort Duquesne and Green Bay via South Bend and the south shore of Lake Michigan. In 1922 Vistula Road was built at a cost of $87,500, . During 1930 SR 19 was proposed and accepted as a state road along modern SR 120 from Elkhart to Bristol. The second state road proposed along modern SR 120 was SR 827 from Fremont east to the Michigan/Indiana border in 1934. The right-of-way for SR 827, east of Fremont, was purchased in 1935. The following year Steuben County was having trouble maintaining the roadway, with bridges needing replacement and the gravel road surface was deteriorating. The state highway commission accepted Vistula Road as a state road in 1937 and it becomes part of SR 120. In late 1938 or early 1939 two parts of SR 120 opens to traffic with the first being between SR 13 and SR 3 and the second being throughout Steuben County. By 1941 SR 120 went between Elkhart and the Michigan state line, east of Fremont, uninterrupted. The entire roadway was paved by 1965. In late 1969 or early 1970 SR 120s western end was moved from an intersection between Middleton Run Road and US 20 (now Old US 20/Toledo Road) to an intersection between Goshen Avenue and Jackson Boulevard. The western end of SR 120 was moved once again to an intersection between Jackson Boulevard and Middleton Run Road on September 9, 2000.\nAt one time, State Road 120 was to have been rerouted onto Elkhart County Road 17 to end at U.S. 20."}
{"id": "709005", "revid": "7320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709005", "title": "Samuel Feinberg", "text": ""}
{"id": "709008", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709008", "title": "Crib Point railway station", "text": "Crib Point railway station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Stony Point line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the town of Crib Point in Victoria, Australia. Crib Point is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring one side platform. It opened on 17 December 1889, with the current station provided in 1986. It initially closed on 22 June 1981, then reopened on 27 September 1984.\nA former freight yard was originally located opposite of the station, while a branch line and triangle into HMAS \"Cerberus\" was located at the up end of the station, past the Naval Base Road level crossing.\nHistory.\nCrib Point station opened on 17 December 1889, when the railway line from Hastings was extended to Stony Point. Like the town itself, the station was named after a hut or \"crib\" was built by fishermen in the 1850s.\nIn 1974, flashing light signals were provided at the Naval Base Road level crossing.\nOn 22 June 1981, the passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service, with the line between Long Island Junction and Stony Point also closing on the same day. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line began and, on 27 September of that year, the passenger service was reinstated.\nIn February 1986, the former station building, which was of a timber construction, was replaced with the current passenger shelters.\nHMAS \"Cerberus\" was also the location for the Mornington Railway Preservation Society, until it relocated to its current site at Moorooduc in 1997.\nIn 2006, No. 3 road was removed and, in October 2007, the last remaining road was removed. The removal of the roads coincided with the removal of a number of semaphore signals at the station as part of a signal upgrade on the Stony Point line.\nIn 2011, boom barriers were provided at the Naval Base Road level crossing.\nPlatforms and services.\nCrib Point has one platform. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Stony Point line services.\nTransport links.\nVentura Bus Lines operates one route via Crib Point station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709009", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709009", "title": "Kitten Pinder", "text": ""}
{"id": "709010", "revid": "55554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709010", "title": "Weisswurst\u00e4quator", "text": ""}
{"id": "709012", "revid": "19954945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709012", "title": "Kasey Chambers", "text": "Kasey Chambers (born 4 June 1976) is an Australian country singer-songwriter and musician born in Mount Gambier to musicians Diane and Bill Chambers. Her older brother is musician and producer Nash Chambers. All four were members of family country-music group Dead Ringer Band in Bowral, New South Wales, from 1992 to 1998. Chambers launched her solo career thereafter. Five of her 12 studio albums have reached No.\u00a01 on the ARIA Albums Chart: \"Barricades &amp; Brickwalls\" (September 2001), \"Wayward Angel\" (May 2004), \"Carnival\" (August 2006), \"Rattlin' Bones\" (April 2008) and \"Dragonfly\" (January 2017). In November 2018, she was inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame and has won an additional 14 ARIA Music Awards with nine for Best Country Album. Her autobiography, \"A Little Bird Told Me...\", co-authored with music journalist Jeff Apter, was released in 2011.\nDead Ringer Band.\nKasey Chambers was born in 1976 in Mount Gambier, South Australia, to Diane and Bill Chambers. Her older brother, Nash Chambers, was born in 1974. From July 1976, the Chambers family travelled around the Nullarbor Plain, where her parents hunted foxes and rabbits for pelts during seven or eight months a year, spanning nine years. During the \"hot months\" (generally from November to March), they returned to Southend, South Australia, where her family owned a fish and chip shop for a time.\nFrom 1986, Bill and Diane returned to performing as a country music duo while their children attended school in Southend. In the following year, the parents added first Kasey and then Nash to their act, which became the Dead Ringer Band \u2013 named for the children looking like their parents. Chambers recorded vocals for two albums released under Bill's name: \"Sea Eagle\" (1987) and \"Kindred Spirit\" (1991). From 1992, Dead Ringer Band released an extended play and four albums. For their first album, \"Red Desert Sky\" (November 1993), she was named as Kasey Jo Chambers, provided vocals and wrote four of its tracks. It was co-produced by the group with Eddie Sikorski at John Reynolds Recording Studio, Adelaide.\nChambers met fellow country singer-songwriter Beccy Cole in mid-1989 in Adelaide, and she joined Dead Ringer Band on a tour through New South Wales before going solo. Chambers later recalled, \"I never really met anyone at this point in my life that was of the same generation as me \u2013 a young girl who liked country music. And funnily enough the first song that I ever wrote in my life was called 'Beccy', about Beccy. It's the worst song you've ever heard in your whole life.\" She cited Emmylou Harris as one of her primary influences, recalling that her parents had frequently played Harris' music throughout her childhood. The group ended when Chambers' parents divorced in the late 1990s. Diane moved to Norfolk Island, and Bill moved to Sydney.\nSolo career.\n1998\u20132002: \"The Captain\" to \"Barricades &amp; Brickwalls\".\nChambers recorded her debut solo album, \"The Captain\", on Norfolk Island during July and August 1998 with her brother Nash producing and father Bill on guitar. United States country musicians Buddy and Julie Miller added guitars and vocals to four tracks. Accompanying music video was directed by Ryan Renshaw. \"The Captain\" was released in May 1999 by EMI Music Australia and in June 2000 in the US by Asylum Records. It peaked at No.\u00a011 on the ARIA Albums Chart and No.\u00a01 on the related ARIA Country Albums chart. At the ARIA Music Awards of 1999, she won Best Country Album, and in the following year, she won Best Female Artist for its title track, which was issued in 2000.\n\"The Captain\" was certified double platinum for shipment of 140,000 copies by Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) in 2001. It reached the top\u00a050 of the \"Billboard\" Top Country Albums in 2001. She toured the US as a support act to Lucinda Williams and later supported Emmylou Harris on the Australian leg of that artist's tour. \"The Captain\" was played in episode 8 (\"He Is Risen\") of the third season of \"The Sopranos\", in April 2001.\nChambers' second studio album, \"Barricades &amp; Brickwalls\", which was also produced by Nash, was released in September 2001 via EMI Music. It debuted at No.\u00a04 in the ARIA Albums Chart and peaked at No.\u00a01 in February of the following year. Its third single, \"Not Pretty Enough\" (January 2002), also peaked at No.\u00a01 on the related ARIA Singles Chart in the same month. The track was written by Chambers, and according to Australian musicologist, Ian McFarlane, \"[it's] about being ignored by commercial radio.\" He cited her autobiography, \"A Little Bird Told Me\" (2011), \"'I wrote [it] as a song about feeling invisible... it was obvious that out in the music industry there was only one path for most young women \u2013 over-sexualised and over made up. To succeed you needed to look like Britney or Shakira.\"\nShe is the first Australian country music artist to have a simultaneous No.\u00a01 single and album. Subsequent singles \"Million Tears\" (June 2002) and \"If I Were You\" (October) also made the top\u00a040. At the ARIA Music Awards of 2002, she won three categories: Album of the Year, Best Female Artist and Best Country Album, for \"Barricades &amp; Brickwalls\". It was certified seven times platinum in 2003 for shipment of at least 490,000 copies. In February 2002, it was released in the US, which peaked at No.\u00a0104 on the \"Billboard\" 200, topping the related Heatseeker Chart and reaching the top\u00a020 of their country music chart. It received \"generally favorable reviews,\" according to aggregate site, Metacritic, with a rating of 74% from 12 critics.\nAustralian music journalist Ed Nimmervoll compared it to her first album: \"The musical cast remains essentially the same as \"The Captain\" with the addition of a 'rock' component via drummer Peter Luscombe and rhythm guitarist Dave Steel, and a guest appearance from 'punkabilly' band the Living End. The album also features appearances from Paul Kelly and American country's Lucinda Williams.\" Nimmervoll cited Chambers' observation, \"The last album showed my life story. That was Introducing Kasey Chambers. This one's The Many Moods of Kasey Chambers.\"\n2003\u20132007: \"Wayward Angel\" to \"Carnival\".\nChambers recorded a cover version of Cyndi Lauper's \"True Colours\" (April 2003), which peaked at No.\u00a04 on the ARIA Singles Chart and was used as the theme song for the Rugby World Cup in that year. Her rendition reached No.\u00a076 on the End of Year Top\u00a0100 Singles for 2003, and was certified as a gold record for shipment of 35,000. At the APRA Music Awards of 2003, Chambers won three categories with \"Not Pretty Enough\" named as Song of the Year, Most Performed Australian Work and Most Performed Country Work.\nShe released her third solo album, \"Wayward Angel\", in May 2004, which debuted at No.\u00a01 on the ARIA Albums Chart and remained at the top position for five\u00a0weeks. It was accredited triple platinum for shipment of 210,000 copies by the end of the following year. AllMusic's Mark Deming felt, \"[it] is perhaps a bit less striking than her first two sets, \"The Captain\" and \"Barricades &amp; Brickwalls\", if only because she staked out her style on those sessions, and here she's harvesting from the ground she broke earlier on. But this also sounds like her most accomplished effort to date.\"\nSingles from the album include \"Hollywood\" (August 2004), \"Pony\" (January 2005), and \"Saturated\" (May). Following the Boxing Day Tsunami (26 December 2004), Chambers appeared at the Wave Aid charity concert in Sydney in January 2005, to help raise funds for organisations in disaster affected areas. At the ARIA Music Awards of 2004 she won both Best Female Artist and Best Country Album for \"Wayward Angel\".\nChambers's fourth studio album, \"Carnival\" (August 2006), also debuted at No.\u00a01. Deming found, \"[it] is roots-friendly enough that it isn't likely to seriously alienate most of her fans, this album does represent a clear and decisive break from the country-influenced approach of her earlier music; most of these 12 songs are easygoing but satisfying roots rock with a bluesy undertone... As a songwriter, she keeps getting better at writing about the stuff of everyday lives (love, lust, disappointment, getting on with life) with an uncommon degree of horse sense and attention to detail, and if anything, the new musical backdrops have added to the depth of her emotional landscapes.\" Its lead single, \"Nothing at All\" (July), reached the top\u00a010.\n2008\u20132010: \"Rattlin' Bones\" to \"Little Bird\".\nIn April 2008, Chambers issued her first collaboration album, \"Rattlin' Bones\", with her then-husband Shane Nicholson, which was co-produced by Nash and Nicholson. It debuted at No.\u00a01 and was certified platinum for 70,000 shipments by that year's end. Frank Gutch Jnr of \"No Depression\" felt, \"[it] could be the soundtrack of the Old West, or themes from the old mountain lifestyle. They have it down, from the sparing use of mandolin and the at times Everly Brothers harmonies to the dirt-beneath-the-fingernails aura. This music is American. Except that it's Australian. It's a conundrum.\"\nChambers and Nicholson were joined by fellow country musician, Troy Cassar-Daley, to perform at Sound Relief, in March 2009, which was a benefit concert in support of survivors of the February 2009 Victorian bushfires. It was held at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, simultaneously with another concert at the Sydney Cricket Ground. All the proceeds from the Melbourne concert went to the Red Cross Victorian Bushfire relief. Appearing with Chambers in Melbourne were Augie March, Bliss N Eso with Paris Wells, Gabriella Cilmi, Hunters &amp; Collectors, Jack Johnson, Jet, Kings of Leon, Liam Finn, Midnight Oil, Paul Kelly, Split Enz and Wolfmother.\nDuring 2009, Chambers collaborated with Bill, Nash and family members to release a children's music album, \"Kasey Chambers, Poppa Bill and the Little Hillbillies\" (November 2009). In 2010, it won the Australian Independent Record (AIR) Award for Best Independent Country Album. As part of that project, she also co-wrote a children's story, \"Little Kasey Chambers and the Lost Music\" (2009), with Bernadette Werchon.\nChambers' seventh studio album, \"Little Bird\", appeared in September 2010 via Liberation Music, which peaked at No.\u00a03. \"Slant Magazine\"s Jonathan Keefe rated it as 4-out-of-5 stars and explained, \"[it] is a polished, studio-slick record of pop-country whose songs are catchy as all hell... It's the economy of [her] songwriting that has been the source of the comparisons between her work and that of [Lucinda] Williams, and Chambers's deep understanding of song structure allows her to create real emotional complexity from just a few turns of phrase.\" It won Best Country Album at the ARIA Awards in 2011.\n2011\u20132013: \"Storybook\" to \"Wreck &amp; Ruin\".\n\"Storybook\", Chambers next studio album, was released in September 2011, and consists of cover versions of other artists material, which peaked at No.\u00a021. \"No Surf Music\"s Jason D Hamad described how, \"because of its very nature I can't say that this album breaks any new ground. Still, it does justice to Chambers' sometimes-eclectic influences and adds an additional layer of understanding for her fans.\"\nHer single from the album, \"Luka\" (2011), is a rendition of Susan Vega's original from 1987. Hamad discussed how, \"[she] strips away the 80's synth-pop, replacing it with more traditional instrumentation including a prominent, bouncing bass, but keeps the airy musical feel meant to contrast with the dark tone of the lyrics.\" Her autobiography, \"A Little Bird Told Me...\", was co-authored with music journalist, Jeff Apter, and was issued later that year.\nHer second collaboration with Nicholson, \"Wreck &amp; Ruin\" (September 2012), reached No.\u00a06 and provided another ARIA Award for Best Country Album in the next year. Keefe found the album has, \"the married couple layering intricate vocal harmonies over some casual, mostly acoustic country-rock... Though [it] impresses for its thematic focus and gallows humor, the economy of language in the songwriting occasionally scans as a bit pedestrian.\"\nOn April 23, 2013, it was announced that Nicholson and Kasey Chambers had separated, their split forced by the collision of work and family life.\n2014\u20132018: \"Bittersweet\" to \"Campfire\".\nChambers' 10th studio album, \"Bittersweet\", appeared in August 2014, which peaked at No.\u00a02. It was produced by Nick DiDia \u2013 her first album which was not produced by her brother, Nash. Deming felt, \"[she] has written a set of songs that are unpretentiously intelligent but deal with matters of the heart and soul with unrelenting honesty, and her rough, sweet vocals never deliver anything short of the ring of truth. [It] is a strong, satisfying album from one of the best and most distinctive singer/songwriters of her day, and this confirms she can move in any number of different directions and still offer her listeners something remarkable.\"\nIt was also recorded after her marital split from Nicholson the previous year. \"The Music\"s Chris Familton observed, \"It finds her canvassing a range of styles and moods, often with religious/biblical references, without sacrificing her heart-on-sleeve emotiveness, innate sense of melody and country heart.\" The title track is a duet with Bernard Fanning (ex-Powderfinger), which Familton found, \"sways with a Neil Young looseness that works surprisingly well.\" It won Best Country Album at the ARIA Music Awards of 2014.\nIn late 2015, she covered the track, \"Cold and Bitter Tears\", on a tribute album for US soul blues musician, Ted Hawkins, \"Cold and Bitter Tears: The Songs of Ted Hawkins\", which was released on Eight 30 Records in Austin, Texas. She was joined on the track by Bill and explained, \"My dad called me up one day and told me about the project... We recorded it at my dad's house, sitting around jamming around a mike. It was a really special thing. I play with my dad all the time, but the novelty never wears off. I love the combination that we create together.\"\n\"Dragonfly\", her 11th studio album, appeared in January 2017 and reached No.\u00a01. It is a double album with Nash producing one session at his Foggy Mountain studio and Australian singer-songwriter Paul Kelly producing another session at Sing Sing Studios, Melbourne. She followed with a U.S. tour in mid-year. Besides duetting on a track with Kelly, she also sings on a track each with Ed Sheeran, Keith Urban and Foy Vance.\n\"Rolling Stone\" Australia's Gareth Hipwell observed, \"[she] has always tended to eschew the more reticent course of songwriting from a point of abstraction, consistently wearing her profoundest truths and uncertainties on her sleeve. It's an artistic penchant given full flight on free-ranging double-LP \"Dragonfly\": 'Talkin' Baby Blues', a shot of Woody Guthriesque spoken-word acoustica, is itself a stunningly candid retelling of Chambers' storied life to date.\" Jonathan Bernstein of \"American Songwriter\" rated it at 3.5 stars out of 5 and explained, \"[it] serves as a summation of sorts of the singer's entire career, a comprehensive, double-album opus that effortlessly switches between Appalachian mountain music, slow-burning folk-rock, melodic radio-pop, Woody Guthrie talking blues, and celebratory country-gospel.\" At the ARIA Music Awards of 2017, she won her eighth Best Country Album trophy, for \"Dragonfly\".\nChambers' 12th studio album, \"Campfire\" (April 2018), is a collaboration with the Fireside Disciples, an \"ad hoc acoustic ensemble,\" comprising Bill on dobro, Brandon Dodd on acoustic guitar, and Alan Pigram on mandolin (and vocals on the album's lead track). It peaked at No.\u00a06 and was co-produced by Chambers, Bill, Dodd, Pigram and Jordan Power. At the ARIA Music Awards of 2018, Chambers became the youngest solo female artist to be inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame, as well as winning the Best Country Album category for a record ninth time. At the Australian Country Music Awards of 2019, \"Campfire\" won Traditional Country Album of the Year.\n2024: \"Backbone\".\nIn July 2024, Chambers announced her 13th studio album \"Backbone\", released in October, and book \"Just Don't Be a D**khead\".\nPersonal life.\nFrom 2000, Kasey Chambers' domestic partner was Cori Hopper, a Perth-born actor, film and music video maker, later based in Sydney. Their son Talon was born in 2002, and they separated in November 2004. Hopper was a presenter on \"Australia's Funniest Home Videos\" from January to December of that year and was a regular cast member on \"The Wedge\" during 2006.\nOn December 17, 2005, Chambers married fellow country music singer-songwriter Shane Nicholson. Chambers had sung a duet, \"Designed to Fade,\" with Nicholson on his debut solo album, \"It's a Movie\" (2002), which was produced by Nash Chambers. Subsequently, they co-released two albums, \"Rattlin' Bones\" (2008) and \"Wreck &amp; Ruin\" (2012). Their son Arlo Ray was born in 2007, followed by daughter Poet Poppin in 2011. In April 2013, the couple announced their separation. In 2024, they recorded \"The Divorce Song,\" which appeared on Chambers' album \"Backbone\".\nAt age 30, Chambers was diagnosed with a combination of the eating disorders bulimia and anorexia nervosa. She explained, \"I just didn't feel myself and I knew that something wasn't right [...] It wasn't an image thing for me ... It wasn't 'Oh I look fat in photos'. It was more about the control thing.\" She was treated by a psychologist, and \"MammaMia\"s Jessie Stephens observed, \"she recognises the importance of accepting that it might be a bad day, or a bad week, and negativity is a vital part of living a balanced life. Pushing it away can lead to anxieties manifesting in a different, more debilitating way.\"\nIn her autobiography, \"A Little Bird Told Me...\" (2011), Chambers provided, \"a disarmingly honest account of a remarkable talent.\" \"The Herald Sun\"s Corinna Hente observed, \"Despite all the success, tragedy struck through a miscarriage, a broken relationship, anorexia and a breakdown. She rebuilt her life with music, playing covers with her family in a band called the Lost Dogs at the local pub.\" She described one of their gigs from July 2007, \"it's not the best idea to get up and sing with a band when you're nine months pregnant, 10 days overdue and bigger than a barn, but there was something about my gigs with the Lost Dogs band that I found impossible to resist. They were a reminder of why I'd fallen in love with music in the first place.\"\nChambers was raised in the Seventh-day Adventist Church by her parents. After releasing her single, \"Is God Real?\" (April 2015), she described her beliefs, \"It is a very personal thing, which is probably why we don't talk about it, but I don't think that means we shouldn't... For me, I certainly believe in a higher power. I don't have a yes or no answer. I have some sort of belief there, but it has changed a lot over the years.\" As of November 2018, she lives in Copacabana, New South Wales Central Coast.\nAwards and nominations.\nChambers has won and been nominated for numerous music awards. They include 14 Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) Awards and 10 Australasian Performing Right Association (APRA) Awards. She was inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame in 2018. This induction recognised her achievement of a \"significant body of recorded work\" and that she \"has had a cultural impact within Australia.\" Chambers has also won awards in the country music field with twenty eight from the Country Music Association of Australia (CMAA)."}
{"id": "709014", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709014", "title": "Stony Point railway station", "text": "Stony Point railway station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne and the terminus of the Stony Point line, part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the town of Crib Point in Victoria, Australia. Stony Point is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring one side platform. It opened on 17 December 1889, with the current station provided in 1984. It initially closed on 10 June 1981, then reopened on 27 September 1984.\nHistory.\nIn 1910, a turntable was provided at the station. By November 1960, it was out of use and, by March 1963, was abolished.\nIn 1976, a siding at the up end of the station was removed. The following year, in 1977, the goods yard was closed.\nOn 22 June 1981, the passenger service between Frankston and Stony Point was withdrawn and replaced with a bus service, with the line between Long Island Junction and Stony Point also closing on the same day. On 16 September 1984, promotional trips for the reopening of the line began and, on 27 September of that year, the passenger service was reinstated.\nA run-around loop exists to the north and west of the station, but has not been regularly used since locomotive hauled services ceased in April 2008.\nIn June 2014, the platform length was reduced from around 150 metres to 103 metres. This was done as the extra length used for longer locomotives was no longer required.\nPlatforms and services.\nStony Point has one platform. It is serviced by Metro Trains' Stony Point line services.\nTransport links.\nA jetty is located near the station, from which ferry services operate to Tankerton, on French Island, and Cowes, on Phillip Island."}
{"id": "709015", "revid": "30292728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709015", "title": "Lawton", "text": "Lawton may refer to:"}
{"id": "709019", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709019", "title": "Jovibarba", "text": "Jovibarba (\"beard of Jupiter\") is a small genus of three species of succulent flowering plants in the family Crassulaceae, endemic to mountainous regions in the southeastern quadrant of Europe. The genus is sometimes classified as a subgenus of \"Sempervivum\", to which it is closely related. \"Jovibarba\" have pale-greenish-yellow or yellow actinomorphic flowers with about six petals, while \"Sempervivum\" have generally pinkish flowers with around twice as many petals, which open more widely than jovibarba flowers. The common name hen and chicks is applied to some \"Jovibarba\" species (and also species in several other genera).\nMost jovibarbas, like sempervivums, reproduce via offsets in addition to producing seeds via sexual reproduction. \"Jovibarba heuffelii\" does not produce offsets on stolons. Instead the offspring of this plant are produced within the mother plant. To propagate it must be split with a knife. The other two jovibarba species are commonly called rollers. They produce offsets that are lightly attached and easily pop off and roll away from the mother plant. Offsets survive the main rosette, which is monocarpic.\nSpecies.\nOnly three species are accepted as distinct by the \"Flora Europaea\":\n\"Jovibarba globifera\" and its subspecies (subsp. \"hirtum\", subsp. \"allionii\", subsp. \"arenaria\") live in the eastern and southern Alps, the Carpathians and the western Balkans south to northern Albania. \"J. heuffelii\" occurs in the remainder of the Balkans and the eastern Carpathians, southeast of \"J. globifera\". \"J. hirta\" occurs further west, in the southwestern Alps."}
{"id": "709020", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709020", "title": "Ardeer railway station", "text": "Ardeer railway station is a regional railway station on the Ararat line, part of the Victorian railway network. It serves the western suburb of Ardeer, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Ardeer station is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring an island platform with two sides. It opened on 2 April 1929, with the current station provided in 1977. It was originally closed on 28 August 1956, then was reopened on 2 May 1977.\nHistory.\n1903-1956.\nIn 1903, the Australian Explosives and Chemical Company Siding was provided on the north side of the line, near what would become the site of Ardeer station. In 1910, a connection to the siding was added at the Melbourne (up) end, converting it into a loop, and it was renamed the Federal Manure Siding. In 1929, it was renamed again as Nobel (Australasia) Pty Ltd Chemical Siding.\nOn 2 April 1929, the station opened, coinciding with the introduction of a passenger service for factory workers at Ardeer and Deer Park. The loop siding was to the east of the former Fitzgerald Road level crossing, and the platform was to the west of it, on the north side of the line. In 1934, it was renamed Ardeer Siding. On 28 August 1956, the station was closed and the passenger platform removed.\n1976-present.\nIn 1976, the line through the section of the former station was duplicated from Sunshine to Deer Park West Junction. On 2 May 1977, the current Ardeer station opened, with an island platform being provided at the up end of the existing siding, about 800 metres further east than the former station. In 1981, the Nobel (Australasia) Pty Ltd Siding was renamed ICI Australia Operations Pty Ltd Siding and, in 1990, was abolished.\nAs part of the Regional Rail Link project, the station underwent a minor platform upgrade. Noise walls were also installed along the corridor, and safety gates were provided at nearby pedestrian crossings.\nFirst announced by the Andrews State Government in 2018, the station is set to be integrated into the metropolitan railway network, as part of the Western Rail Plan.\nPlatforms and services.\nArdeer has one island platform with two faces. It is served by V/Line Ballarat and Ararat line trains.\nTransport links.\nCDC Melbourne operates one bus route via Ardeer station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nTransit Systems Victoria operates three bus routes via Ardeer station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709022", "revid": "15934865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709022", "title": "Triglav (god)", "text": ""}
{"id": "709023", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709023", "title": "Deer Park railway station", "text": "Deer Park railway station is a regional railway station on the Ararat and Warrnambool lines. It serves the western suburb of Deer Park, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Deer Park station is an elevated premium station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 2 April 1884, with the current station provided in April 2023.\nInitially opened as Kororoit, the station was given its current name of Deer Park on 3 December 1889.\nHistory.\nDeer Park station opened as Kororoit on 2 April 1884, along with the Serviceton line, and was renamed Deer Park in 1899, by which time the station had a three road yard, passenger platform on the southern track, a goods platform on the northern track, and an interlocked signal box. Being on a single track railway, it served as a crossing loop for trains, which remained until 1913, when the signal box was abolished.\nIn 1928, a siding serving Nobel Chemical Finishes (Australia) Pty Ltd was provided at the up (Spencer Street) end of the station, running north to a loop siding and dead end. In 1929, alterations were made to the electric staff working of trains, to permit workers trains to operate to the Nobel factories at Ardeer and Deer Park. In 1943, the signal box was reopened, in conjunction with the opening of the new Ravenhall siding (Commonwealth Government Siding), at the down end of the yard. The new siding ran south from the line to a loop siding, before terminating at a dead end. Also occurring in that year, flashing light signals were provided at the former Mount Derrimut Road level crossing (then known as Station Road), which was located at the up end of the station.\nThe Nobel siding (later ICIANZ) was closed in 1955 and, in 1976, the line from Sunshine to Deer Park West Junction was duplicated, with the current island platform also provided. The signal box was closed, and the line was worked by Centralised Traffic Control from Sunshine. Crossovers between both lines were provided at each end of the platform. In 1978, the Ravenhall siding was abolished.\nIn 1981, boom barriers were provided at the former Mount Derrimut Road level crossing. In 1987, one of the loop sidings in the yard was removed, with the last siding removed in 1989, leaving only the main line and platform. In 2005, as part of the Regional Fast Rail project, control of the signalling was transferred to the Ballarat signal box.\nIn September 2009, an upgrade of Deer Park station commenced, including:\nIn June 2015, the junction of the Deer Park \u2013 West Werribee line, part of the Regional Rail Link project, opened three kilometres west of Deer Park. The year prior, during major construction works, the station underwent a minor upgrade as part of the project. There were changes to the platform and the car-park, and safety fences were installed between the tracks and the car-park waiting area.\nFirst announced by the Andrews State Government in 2018, the station is set to be integrated into the metropolitan railway network, as part of the Western Rail Plan.\nAs part of the Regional Rail Revival project, of track was duplicated between Deer Park West and Melton. It was provided in late 2019, coinciding with the opening of Cobblebank.\nAs part of the Level Crossing Removal Project, the Mount Derrimut Road level crossing was grade separated and the station rebuilt in April 2023. The railway line was elevated over the road, along with the rebuilt station. Construction began in 2021, with the station and adjacent road reopening on 24 April 2023.\nDeer Park is also the first station in Victoria to have a roof garden\nPlatforms and services.\nDeer Park has two side platforms. It is serviced by V/Line Ballarat, Ararat and Geelong line services, as well as selected weekend Warrnambool line services.\nTransport links.\nCDC Melbourne operates one bus route via Deer Park station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nTransit Systems Victoria operates three routes via Deer Park station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709024", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709024", "title": "Rockbank railway station", "text": "Rockbank railway station is a regional railway station on the Ararat line, located in the western suburb of Rockbank, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The station initially opened as \"Mount Atkinson\" on 2 April 1884, then it was given its current name of Rockbank in November 1889.\nThe station is an unstaffed, ground-level station, featuring two side platforms. The current station was provided in 2019 by the Regional Rail Revival project. The station is accessible, utilising a pedestrian overpass, lifts, and ramps for platform access.\nRockbank station serves the Ballarat and Ararat lines, which are part of V/Line's regional passenger network. The station is served by the 444 bus route to Aintree. The journey to Southern Cross railway station, the hub of the V/Line railway network, is approximately .\nDescription.\nRockbank station is at Leakes Road, Melbourne, a major road which forms the station's eastern boundary. A level crossing is also present. The station is located near Rockbank's primary school, general store, and housing estates. The state government agency VicTrack owns the station, and it is primarily operated by V/Line. It is approximately away from Southern Cross railway station. The adjacent stations are Caroline Springs station up towards Melbourne and Cobblebank station down towards Ballarat or Ararat.\nThe station consists of two side platforms with a total of two platform edges. A pedestrian bridge links the two platforms, delivered by Kyriacou Architects and SMEC Holdings. The bridge's brown colour represents the earth surrounding the station.\nThe current station is entirely different from its original state, as both platforms were demolished for the new station's construction in 2018. The station has 350 car parking spaces and 26 bike cage facilities (known as Parkiteers). To meet accessibility needs, the station has lifts and ramps.\nHistory.\nOriginal station.\nThe station opened as Mount Atkinson on 2 April 1884, as part of the extension of the Serviceton line, and was renamed Rockbank in 1889. The station was established to serve the local farming communities of Rockbank. Being on a single track railway line, it was used as a crossing loop, and continued to be used as such until 2021, when the single-track section between Deer Park West and Melton was converted to dual track.\nBy 1914, the station had a rail yard with three tracks. The south track housed the passenger platform, and the north track had a goods shed. The station's signal box was interlocked. With a chaff mill established in 1908, and a recreation reserve located nearby, the station became the focus of the Rockbank community.\nIn 1960, the crossing loop was extended to accommodate trains up to 730 metres long, and a short platform was provided on the loop road. In 1976, Centralised Traffic Control was provided on the line from Sunshine to Rockbank. The same year, flashing light signals were provided at the Leakes Road level crossing, located nearby in the up direction of the station. By the 1970s, the mill siding was no longer in use. The station building was later demolished . A year later, in 1986, the yard was simplified to two tracks: a main line and a crossing loop. In 1990, the mechanical signals and switches were removed, and replaced by Automatic and Track Control. A new platform, parallel to the size of the southbound platform, was provided in 1993. It replaced the original short platform which was located on the passing loop.\nIn 2002, boom barriers were provided at the Leakes Road level crossing. In 2005, control of the signals was transferred to the Ballarat signal box, as part of the Regional Fast Rail project. Between 2015\u20132019, at least six crashes occurred at the Leakes Road level crossing, with 2 serious collisions and 8 injuries.\nReconstructed station.\nIn March 2018, work began on the reconstruction of the station as part of the Regional Rail Revival project. The station upgrade was managed by Kyriacou Architects and SMEC Holdings, in partnership with Lendlease and Coleman Rail. The side platforms were rebuilt to fit six-carriage VLocity trains, and an accessible pedestrian overpass was installed over the tracks, accessed by lifts, ramps and stairs. Other new facilities included a car park with capacity for up to 350 cars, a bus interchange, secure bike storage areas (Parkiteers), and drop-off zones.\nOn 26 August 2019, the rebuilt station was opened to passengers. Following the upgrade, there was a 114.63% increase in passenger movements at the station. This increased patronage has led to some media attention, with particular concerns being raised that there is insufficient parking.\nOn 2 December 2019, Transit Systems Victoria commenced operation of a bus route via Rockbank station, connecting it to the suburb of Aintree.\nThe station is set to be integrated into the metropolitan railway network, as part of the rail electrification from Sunshine railway station to Melton under the Western Rail Plan. However, there have been no confirmations regarding the integration since the announcement in 2018.\nPlatforms and services.\nRockbank has two side platforms. It is served by V/Line Ballarat and Ararat line trains. The Ballarat line runs between Ballarat railway station and Southern Cross railway station in the Melbourne CBD. The Ararat line takes a similar route, but continues beyond Ballarat to Ararat railway station.\nTransport links.\nRockbank station has an accessible bus interchange with six bus bays. The bus interchange also serves as a train replacement coach stop.\nTransit Systems Victoria operates one route via Rockbank station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709028", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709028", "title": "Melton railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Melton railway station is a regional railway station on the Ararat line. It serves the outer-western suburb of Melton South, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Melton is a ground level premium station featuring two side platforms. It opened on 2 April 1884, with the second platform added in 1991.\nThe station is currently being rebuilt as part of the Level Crossing Removal Project, with the new station planned to open in 2026. The new station will be an elevated premium station with four platforms. Platform 1 and 4 will be side platforms, and Platform 2 and 3 will be an island platform with two faces. The new station will accommodate 9-carriage VLocity trains, which are planned to be introduced on the line in 2027.\nHistory.\n19th century.\nMelton Station opened when the railway line from Braybrook Junction (Sunshine) was extended to the suburb. Like the suburb itself, the station was named after Melton Mowbray in Leicestershire, England. \nIn 1886, the line was extended westward to Parwan and, being on a single track section, the station was the site of a crossing loop from that time. By 1889, the station had an interlocked signal box, single passenger platform, and a three-track yard. There was a goods shed opposite the passenger platform.\n20th century.\nIn 1962, flashing light signals were provided at the Exford Road level crossing, located nearby in the up direction from the station. In 1987, the yard was rationalised, being reduced to a main line and crossing loop. Boom barriers were provided at the level crossing in 1990, and a second platform was added in 1991. In 1998, the station building was refurbished.\n21st century.\nIn 2005, as part of the Regional Fast Rail project, control of the signals was transferred to the Ballarat signal box. The station retained the lever frame for historical purposes until the original station was demolished in 2025.\nAs part of the Regional Rail Revival project, 18\u00a0km of track was duplicated between the Deer Park West junction and Melton. The duplication was completed in late 2019, coinciding with the opening of the newly-built Cobblebank Station.\nOn 6 September 2025, the station building on platform 2 was demolished to make way for the new elevated station.\nFuture.\nOn 6 October 2022, the Andrews Government announced that s will be removed in Melton and Truganina by the Level Crossing Removal Project. As part of these removals, Melton Station is currently being rebuilt. The rebuilt station will include four platforms, allowing trains to terminate at Melton without blocking services going further. Platform 1 and 4 will be side platforms, and Platform 2 and 3 will be an island platform with two faces. The new station will accommodate 9-carriage V/Line VLocity DMUs, set to be introduced to the line in 2027.\nElectrification and quadruplication of the Ararat line up to Melton was announced by the Andrews Government in 2018 as part of its Western Rail Plan. After speculation in 2023 that this upgrade had been cancelled, in 2025, a track diagram was released showing changes that will be made as part of the major upgrades planned for Sunshine Station. According to the diagram, quadruplication is planned to occur between a junction site near Caroline Springs and Sunshine; the new tracks will run into a new pair of platforms at Sunshine. The tracks at Sunshine will be reconfigured to route the future electrified Melton service through the Metro Tunnel.\nPlatforms and services.\nMelton has two side platforms and is served by V/Line Ballarat and Ararat line trains.\nTransport links.\nTransit Systems Victoria operates six bus routes and one route is operated by Christians Bus to and from Melton station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709029", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709029", "title": "Moduli (physics)", "text": "In quantum field theory, the term moduli (: modulus; more properly moduli fields) is sometimes used to refer to scalar fields whose potential energy function has continuous families of global minima. Such potential functions frequently occur in supersymmetric systems. The term \"modulus\" is borrowed from mathematics (or more specifically, moduli space is borrowed from algebraic geometry), where it is used synonymously with \"parameter\". The word moduli (\"Moduln\" in German) first appeared in 1857 in Bernhard Riemann's celebrated paper \"Theorie der Abel'schen Functionen\".\nModuli spaces in quantum field theories.\nIn quantum field theories, the possible vacua are usually labeled by the vacuum expectation values of scalar fields, as Lorentz invariance forces the vacuum expectation values of any higher spin fields to vanish. These vacuum expectation values can take any value for which the potential function is a minimum. Consequently, when the potential function has continuous families of global minima, the space of vacua for the quantum field theory is a manifold (or orbifold), usually called the vacuum manifold. This manifold is often called the moduli space of vacua, or just the moduli space, for short.\nThe term moduli is also used in string theory to refer to various continuous parameters that label possible string backgrounds: the expectation value of the dilaton field, the parameters (e.g. the radius and complex structure) which govern the shape of the compactification manifold, et cetera. These parameters are represented, in the quantum field theory that approximates the string theory at low energies, by the vacuum expectation values of massless scalar fields, making contact with the usage described above. In string theory, the term \"moduli space\" is often used specifically to refer to the space of all possible string backgrounds.\nModuli spaces of supersymmetric gauge theories.\nIn general quantum field theories, even if the classical potential energy is minimized over a large set of possible expectation values, once quantum corrections are included it is generically the case that nearly all of these configurations cease to minimize the energy. The result is that the set of vacua of the quantum theory is generally much smaller than that of the classical theory. A notable exception occurs when the various vacua in question are related by a symmetry which guarantees that their energy levels remain exactly degenerate.\nThe situation is very different in supersymmetric quantum field theories. In general, these possess large moduli spaces of vacua which are not related by any symmetry, for example, the masses of the various excitations may differ at various points on the moduli space. The moduli spaces of supersymmetric gauge theories are in general easier to calculate than those of nonsupersymmetric theories because supersymmetry restricts the allowed geometries of the moduli space even when quantum corrections are included.\nAllowed moduli spaces of 4-dimensional theories.\nThe more supersymmetry there is, the stronger the restriction on the vacuum manifold. Therefore, if a restriction appears below for a given number N of spinors of supercharges, then it also holds for all greater values of N.\nN=1 Theories.\nThe first restriction on the geometry of a moduli space was found in 1979 by Bruno Zumino and published in the article \"Supersymmetry and K\u00e4hler Manifolds\". He considered an N=1 theory in 4-dimensions with global supersymmetry. N=1 means that the fermionic components of the supersymmetry algebra can be assembled into a single Majorana supercharge. The only scalars in such a theory are the complex scalars of the chiral superfields. He found that the vacuum manifold of allowed vacuum expectation values for these scalars is not only complex but also a K\u00e4hler manifold.\nIf gravity is included in the theory, so that there is local supersymmetry, then the resulting theory is called a supergravity theory and the restriction on the geometry of the moduli space becomes stronger. The moduli space must not only be K\u00e4hler, but also the K\u00e4hler form must lift to integral cohomology. Such manifolds are called Hodge manifolds. The first example appeared in the 1979 article \"Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking and Higgs Effect in Supergravity Without Cosmological Constant\" and the general statement appeared 3 years later in \"Quantization of Newton's Constant in Certain Supergravity Theories\".\nN=2 Theories.\nIn extended 4-dimensional theories with N=2 supersymmetry, corresponding to a single Dirac spinor supercharge, the conditions are stronger. The N=2 supersymmetry algebra contains two representations with scalars, the vector multiplet which contains a complex scalar and the hypermultiplet which contains two complex scalars. The moduli space of the vector multiplets is called the Coulomb branch while that of the hypermultiplets is called the Higgs branch. The total moduli space is locally a product of these two branches, as nonrenormalization theorems imply that the metric of each is independent of the fields of the other multiplet.(See for example Argyres, Non-Perturbative Dynamics Of Four-Dimensional Supersymmetric Field Theories, pp.\u00a06\u20137, for further discussion of the local product structure.)\nIn the case of global N=2 supersymmetry, in other words in the absence of gravity, the Coulomb branch of the moduli space is a special K\u00e4hler manifold. The first example of this restriction appeared in the 1984 article Potentials and Symmetries of General Gauged N=2 Supergravity: Yang-Mills Models by Bernard de Wit and Antoine Van Proeyen, while a general geometric description of the underlying geometry, called special geometry, was presented by Andrew Strominger in his 1990 paper Special Geometry.\nThe Higgs branch is a hyperk\u00e4hler manifold as was shown by Luis Alvarez-Gaume and Daniel Freedman in their 1981 paper Geometrical Structure and Ultraviolet Finiteness in the Supersymmetric Sigma Model. Including gravity the supersymmetry becomes local. Then one needs to add the same Hodge condition to the special Kahler Coulomb branch as in the N=1 case. Jonathan Bagger and Edward Witten demonstrated in their 1982 paper Matter Couplings in N=2 Supergravity that in this case, the Higgs branch must be a quaternionic K\u00e4hler manifold.\nN&gt;2 Supersymmetry.\nIn extended supergravities with N&gt;2 the moduli space must always be a symmetric space."}
{"id": "709030", "revid": "39979868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709030", "title": "Cooperstown (disambiguation)", "text": "Cooperstown, New York is a village in and county seat of Otsego County, New York, United States.\nCooperstown may also refer to:"}
{"id": "709031", "revid": "27199084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709031", "title": "Graz School", "text": "The Graz School (), also Meinong's School, of experimental psychology and object theory was headed by Alexius Meinong, who was professor and Chair of Philosophy at the University of Graz where he founded the Graz Psychological Institute (Grazer Psychologische Institut) in 1894. The Graz School's phenomenological psychology and philosophical semantics achieved important advances in philosophy and psychological science.\nHistory.\nMeinong developed the Graz School with the assistance of his students Christian von Ehrenfels (founder of \"Gestalt\" psychology) and Alois H\u00f6fler. The growth of his theory, however, occurred later when he started teaching and conducted research at Graz where he received contributions from students who also later became his philosophical successors. Meinong and these proteges \u2013 particularly their work on phenomenological psychology and philosophical semantics \u2013 gained advances in all major areas of philosophy and psychological science. Among Meinong's pupils were Fritz Heider, Stephan Witasek, Vittorio Benussi, Rudolf Ameseder, Konrad Zindler, Wilhelm Maria Frankl, Eduard Martinak, Ernst Mally, Steno Tedeschi, and Franz Weber. Meinong's earlier students, von Ehrenfels (founder of \"Gestalt\" psychology), H\u00f6fler, Adalbert Meingast, and Anton Oelzelt-Newin, can be considered part of this school. The assistance of these students allowed Meinong to further refine his theories such as object theory.\nThe Graz School also played an important role in Gestalt theory as Meniong's model of cognition became an important research foundation for Gestalt perception. The Graz School was part of the wider movement of Austrian realism.\nTheories.\nThe Graz School developed much of Meinongs theories that covered various topics such as philosophical psychology, metaphysics, semantics and philosophy of language, theory of evidence, possibility and probability, and value theory as well as the analysis of emotion, imagination and abstraction. The School is known for its object theory and theory of the mind. An important foundation of the Graz School is Meinong's position that psychology is part of philosophy where the former (particularly descriptive psychology) is considered the fundamental discipline while the latter represents \"a whole group of sciences\". It also embraced the Brentano's ideas such as the empiricist methodology for scientific philosophy, the intentionality thesis, and the goal of developing an intentionalist philosophy of fact and value. \nObject theory.\nThe object theory of the Graz School first emerged in Meinong's work, \"On Assumptions\", published in 1902. \nAesthetics.\nIt is recognized that Witasek and Benussi assisted Meinong in his philosophical investigations and had contributed to the development of the Graz School. The development of the concept of aesthetic value in the Graz School is attributed to Witasek. Meinong's himself did not focus on this area in his investigations despite his interest in the arts. The subject was discussed in a 400-page book called \"Grundzuge der allgemeinen Asthetik\", which addressed \u2013 according to the Meinongian framework \u2013 the problems that an aesthetic theory is expected to deal with during its time. This included the evaluation of the Meinongian theory of aesthetic enjoyment and its link to the psychology of the sense experience of aesthetic objects."}
{"id": "709032", "revid": "44217690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709032", "title": "Indiana State Road 127", "text": "State Road 127 (SR\u00a0127) is a short north\u2013south highway in northeast corner of the U.S. state of Indiana between U.S. Route 20 (US\u00a020) in Angola, Indiana and SR\u00a0120. Its present length was formerly a part of old US\u00a027, whose designation was moved to the new Interstate 69 (I\u201369) when the freeway was completed in northern Indiana in 1967.\nSR\u00a0127 is in fact a \"child\" of US\u00a027; however, Indiana decommissioned all of US\u00a027 north of Fort Wayne, so SR\u00a0127 no longer connects with US\u00a027 anywhere. It functions in part to connect SR\u00a0120 to I\u201369 and, south of its interchange with I\u201369, it provides a local thoroughfare into Angola. The last several miles of SR\u00a0127 north of Angola's town square are crowded with fast-food franchises and other national chains.\nSR\u00a0127 also provides access, through the very short SR\u00a0727, to Pokagon State Park.\nRoute description.\nSR\u00a0127 southern terminus is at US\u00a020. SR\u00a0127 heads north as a two\u2013lane highway passing through residential areas. At Calvary Lane in Angola the road becomes a four\u2013lane highway with a center turn lane. At 200 North the road becomes a two\u2013lane rural highway, passing farmland and woodlands. North of Angola, SR\u00a0127 has an interchange with Interstate 69 (I-69). Where SR\u00a0127 passes under I-69 heading west then at an intersection with SR\u00a0727, SR\u00a0127 turns north. After SR\u00a0727, SR\u00a0127 is within a few hundred yards from I-69.\nHistory.\nSR 127 was first authorized in 1931 between Pokagon State Park and US 27. Between late 1967 and early 1968 the road was extended north to SR 120, along the old route of US 27. In late 1968 or early 1969 the road was extended south to US 20 in Angola, along what had been US 27 before it was diverted to Interstate 69. The route from Pokagon State Park to SR\u00a0127 became SR 727 that this time."}
{"id": "709033", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709033", "title": "Vader (band)", "text": "Vader is a Polish death metal band from Olsztyn. Formed in 1983, the group was founded by then-bassist Piotr \"Peter\" Wiwczarek and guitarist Zbigniew \"Vika\" Wr\u00f3blewski. Vader went through several lineup changes over the years, with Wiwczarek as the only constant member. Since 2022, the band has comprised Wiwczarek on lead vocals and lead guitar, rhythm guitarist Marek \"Spider\" Paj\u0105k, bassist Tomasz \"Hal\" Halicki, and drummer Micha\u0142 Andrzejczyk.\nStarting as a more traditional heavy metal group, Vader eventually went to thrash, speed, and then in the late 1980s became a death metal band. It would not be until nine years after forming that they managed to release their debut album \"The Ultimate Incantation\" (1992); Vader has released eleven more studio albums since then. The band's name was inspired by Darth Vader from the \"Star Wars\" film series. Lyrical themes include stories by H. P. Lovecraft, World War II, horror, and science fiction. According to \"Billboard\" magazine, by 2002 Vader sold approximately 500,000 releases around the world.\nVader will be working in the studio in the fall of 2025 to record their new (thirteenth) album.\nHistory.\nVader was formed in 1983, the same year as the very first death metal pioneers Possessed and Death. However, at this time Vader was a heavy/speed metal band, later evolving into thrash metal and then finally death metal for the band's first demo, \"Live in Decay\", in 1986. Vader released another demo, \"Necrolust\", in 1989, but it was not until the band's third demo, \"Morbid Reich\", in 1990, that Vader gained international attention. \"Morbid Reich\" sold nearly 10,000 copies, making it one of the most sold metal demos ever. This success earned the group a contract with Earache Records. The songs from \"Morbid Reich\" would appear later on Vader's full-length debut album in 1992, \"The Ultimate Incantation\".\nDue to communication breakdowns, the contract with Earache was terminated and the release of \"Sothis\" and \"\", both in 1994, had to be released on different labels. In the meantime, Vader toured relentlessly, and in 1995, the band signed a contract with Impact Records. Vader then released \"De Profundis\", \"Future of the Past\", and \"Black to the Blind\". Then, Hammerheart Records re-released two early demos, \"Necrolust\" and \"Morbid Reich\", as the compilation \"Reborn in Chaos\". In August 1998, Vader released \"Live in Japan\". Vader also recorded the \"Kingdom\" EP and a VHS video entitled \"Vision and Voice\" around this time; both were released in December. In October 1998, Vader opened for Slayer during a show in Poland. At the end of 1998, Vader signed a contract to Metal Blade Records.\nVader spent most of 1999 touring. In March, Vader embarked on their first headlining US tour, the International Extreme Music Festival 1999, and in May Vader played at Metalmania. In June, the band went on another European tour, and the rest of the summer was filled with numerous appearances at festivals in Central Europe. Vader concluded touring by embarking on a European tour with thrash metal band Testament.\nIn November and December 1999, Vader recorded the album \"Litany\", which was released in March 2000, and recorded a music video for the song \"Cold Demons,\" which appeared on a special-edition digipack. The release of the album was also supported by live shows, including April's No Mercy Festival 2000, and in June, the band embarked on a 30-date European tour with Vital Remains, Fleshcrawl, and Pandemia.\nIn April 2001, Vader released the EP \"Reign Forever World\", featuring re-recorded songs, cover songs, and live tracks. The band promoted the album intensively, touring Poland, Russia and Ukraine, and again in the US. In September 2001, they did another European tour with Cryptopsy, Dying Fetus, Catastrophic, and several other bands. This was followed by ten Polish appearances as part of the Thrash'em All Festival 2001, along with Krisiun, Behemoth and several Polish death metal and black metal bands.\nIn 2002, Vader released \"Revelations\", and toured England, Scotland, and Ireland during the No Mercy Festival's dates. In May, the band released its first DVD, \"More Vision and the Voice\". In 2004, the band started recording \"The Beast\". Recording sessions for the album were postponed in May due to an accident which injured the drummer, Doc. He was replaced with Daray from the Polish band Vesania. Recording was finished in mid-July, and to support the album, the band toured again, appearing at over 170 concerts. The Europe-wide tour saw Vader's first trip to the Balkans. The most important gig of 2004 was at the Silesian Stadium in Chorz\u00f3w, where the band opened for Metallica in front of 50,000 people.\nIn March 2005, long-time drummer, Doc, left the band due to struggling with alcoholism. Five months later, he died unexpectedly from heart failure. He was 34 years old.\nIn 2008, Novy decided to leave Vader after five years; Marcin Rygiel (ex-Decapitated) replaced him on bass for the U.S. Summer Slaughter Tour 2008. Reyash would join as a permanent bassist later in the year.\nIn 2009, Vader's eighth album, \"Necropolis\", was released via Nuclear Blast Records. The album was recorded at Hertz studios in Bialystok, Poland with the Wieslawski Bros. In 2011, Vader released another album, entitled \"Welcome to the Morbid Reich\".\nIn December 2013, Vader entered the studio to record their then-upcoming tenth album, titled \"Tibi et Igni\", for an early 2014 release. On 7 March 2014, the band finished recording the album, which was released on 30 May by Nuclear Blast. Their next album, \"The Empire\", was released on 4 November 2016. The band toured for nearly two years in support of \"The Empire\", including headlining a US tour (with support from Internal Bleeding, Sacrificial Slaughter, Voices of Ruin and Micawber) in May and June 2017, and supporting Testament and Annihilator on the European \"Brotherhood of the Snake\" tour in March and April 2018.\nThe band released an extended play titled \"Thy Messenger\" on 31 May 2019 through Nuclear Blast. Their newest full-length album, \"Solitude in Madness\", was released on 1 May 2020. As of January 2022, according to Piotr \"Peter\" Wiwczarek, Vader has begun recording new music for their next album. In March 2022, it was announced drummer James Stewart had departed the band a month prior and was replaced by Micha\u0142 Andrzejczyk.\nMusical style, impact and legacy.\nGraham Hartmann of Loudwire said, \"Until Behemoth\u2019s new millennium rise, Vader served as Poland\u2019s biggest death metal export. They challenged their contemporaries in the speed department alongside mechanized riffing as frontman Piotr \u201cPeter\u201d Wiwczarek spilled the secrets of the \u2018Necronimicon\u2019 and other magical mysteries. The sewer monster sounds that emanate from his throat have a whirring quality, but he manages to be intelligible in his delivery, perfectly enunciating each word.\"\nThe name of American rock band Eagles of Death Metal was influenced by Vader. When a friend was trying to introduce Queens of the Stone Age frontman Josh Homme to the death metal genre, he played Vader's music. Homme called them \"The Eagles of death metal.\" After coining this phrase, he wondered what a cross between the Eagles and a death metal band would sound like. Afterwards, the phrase became the name of his band.\nBand members.\nCurrent"}
{"id": "709034", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709034", "title": "James Williams (Delaware)", "text": ""}
{"id": "709035", "revid": "939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709035", "title": "Crossroads (British TV series)", "text": "Crossroads (later known as Crossroads Motel and Crossroads King's Oak) is a British television soap opera that ran on ITV over two periods \u2013 the original 1964 to 1988 run, followed by a short revival from 2001 to 2003. Set in a fictional motel (hotel in the revival) in the Midlands, \"Crossroads\" became a byword for low production values, particularly in the 1970s and early 1980s. Despite this, the series regularly attracted huge audiences during this time, with viewership numbers reaching as high as 15 million viewers.\nIt was created by Hazel Adair and Peter Ling, and produced by ATV (until the end of 1981) and then by ATV's successor, Central Independent Television until 1988 when it was axed. The series was revived by Carlton Television in 2001, but due to low ratings it was cancelled again in 2003.\nStorylines.\n1964\u20131988.\nThe original premise of\u00a0\"Crossroads\"\u00a0was based on the everyday lives of two feuding sisters, their businesses, staff and customers, specifically in relation to the Crossroads Motel, in the village of Kings Oak near Birmingham. On hearing that Heathbury town council wanted to build a motorway through part of her land, astute\u00a0businesswoman Meg Richardson (Noele Gordon) had used the compensation money the council offered, and her late husband Charles's insurance money, to convert their large Georgian home into a motel \u2013 a \"motor-hotel\" aimed at motorists with parking outside their chalet. Crossroads had 16 chalets, a reception, bar, kitchen, office and private sitting room. According to Meg, the clientele\u00a0included\u00a0tourists who were journeying to places like \"Stratford On Avon, the Lake District or even those breaking a journey going up\u00a0to Scotland, as well as commercial travellers, people who have their business going up and down the Midlands, and\u00a0theatre people.\" Charles Richardson and Meg had two children: hotel receptionist Jill (Jane Rossington), born in 1946, and\u00a0schoolboy Alexander, or \"Sandy\" (Roger Tonge), who was born in 1950.\nMeg went on to become engaged to businessman Hugh Mortimer (John Bentley) but he initially married Jane Templeton (Rosalie Ashley), who was dying of a brain tumour, in order for her to come to England to undergo an operation. She died in hospital, never regaining consciousness following surgery. Meg was then courted by Malcolm Ryder (David Davenport) whom she later married, however, he was a weak, unscrupulous man, and when he found himself in financial difficulties he decided to poison Meg and claim the insurance money. He was discovered, and when confronted with his crime walked out of the motel and out of Meg's life. Some time later, news came that he had burnt to death in a car crash in South America, which turned out not to be true; and after the police arrested him for his doppelg\u00e4nger's murder, a divorce was sought. Eight years after their first meeting, Meg and Hugh re-met, fell in love and were married in 1975 at Birmingham Cathedral. Hugh was kidnapped by Australian terrorists, and died of a heart attack in 1978.\nIn 1970, Jill married John Crayne (Mark Rivers), who, it turned out is already married with a wife and two young daughters living in Switzerland. Jill had therefore married a bigamist, making the marriage null and void; this led Jill to attempt suicide. Following her recovery, Jill turned her attention to down-to-earth electrician Stan Harvey (Edward Clayton), whom she married the following year. In 1975, Jill gave birth to a daughter, Sarah Jane Harvey (Sorrel Dunger). In 1977, Stan spent some time on business in Germany and it was during his absence that Jill had an affair with her step-brother, Anthony Mortimer (Jeremy Sinden) to whom she became pregnant, with their child Matthew, who was subsequently born in 1978. Despite trying to reconcile, Jill and Stan's marriage ended in him winning a bitter custody battle, which led to him and Sarah Jane moving to Germany. Anthony thereafter took Matthew to live in New York. Jill had a one-night stand with a television engineer, and again attempted suicide. Jill meets womanising accountant and later Crossroads manager Adam Chance (Tony Adams) on Christmas Day 1978, and in 1983 they are eventually married. This said, by 1988, Jill leaves Adam for a new life with publican John Maddingham (Jeremy Nicholas).\nMeg's sister Kitty Jarvis (Beryl Johnstone) ran The Shopday Store, a newsagent's and tobacconist's shop in the nearby town of Heathbury, where she lived with her pipe-smoking husband Dick Jarvis\u00a0(Brian Kent), and their son Brian (David Fennell), who was born in 1945. In the programme's pre-publicity and first episode it is stated that Dick and Kitty have a daughter, Lesley, who is \"out in Australia, doing very well for herself\", unseen, she later marries Maurice Grant, a doctor at St. Joseph's Hospital Adelaide. Dick is initially unemployed, and struggles financially to the point of \"borrowing\" \u00a32 from Kitty's shop till without asking her, with suspicion of the theft falling on their lodger Patrick Wade (Malcolm Young), who unbeknownst to Kitty and Dick\u00a0is in reality an army deserter by the name of Philip Carroll.\nAfter going on dates to such places as the\u00a0Heathbury Bowling Alley and the motel coffee bar, Brian becomes engaged to car hire secretary Janice Gifford (Carolyn Lyster), whom he marries in 1965, the same year\u00a0Meg's and Kitty's brother Andy Fraser (Ian Patterson) marries widow woman Ruth Bailey\u00a0(Pamela Greenhall). The character of Kitty was written out in 1969 after the death of actress Beryl Johnstone. Additional extended family members included\u00a0Meg's black adopted daughter, Melanie Harper (Cleo Sylvestre), Meg's adoptive son Bruce Richardson (Michael Walker), Meg's niece Penny Richardson (Diana Grayson), and\u00a0Meg, Kitty\u00a0and Andy's mother \"Granny\" Fraser (Mollie Maureen). Dick's father Enoch Jarvis (Jack Hayes) also makes an appearance.\nAmong those closest to Meg or her family were former actress Tish Hope (Joy Andrews), Reverend Peter Hope (Neville Hughes),\u00a0Kitchen worker Vi Blundell (Peggy Aitchison),\u00a0hotel chef Carlos Raphael (Anthony Morton), his wife Josefina (Gillian Betts), waitress Marilyn Gates (Sue Nicholls and then Nadine Hanwell), kitchen assistant\u00a0Amy Turtle\u00a0(Ann George), postmistress Edith Tatum (Elisabeth Croft), and motel waitress Diane Lawton (Susan Hanson). Others connected to the motel included, suave manager and later motel director David Hunter (Ronald Allen), his first wife Rosemary (Janet Hargreaves), their son Chris (Freddie Foote and later Stephen Hoye), David's second wife Barbara (Sue Lloyd), Chefs Gerald Lovejoy (William Avenell), Bernard Booth (David Lawton) and Shughie McFee (Angus Lennie), hairdresser Vera Downend (Zeph Gladstone), the Harvey family, consisting of father Wilf (Morris Parsons) and his grown children Stan (Edward Clayton and later Terry Molloy) and Sheila (Sonia Fox), accountant and later motel manager Adam Chance (Tony Adams), and cleaner Doris Luke (Kathy Staff). Perhaps the most memorable character proved to be the mentally challenged Benny Hawkins (Paul Henry), whose trademark was a woolly hat that was worn all year round. His fans included British troops serving in the Falklands War in 1982, who nicknamed the Falkland Islanders \"Bennies\" after the character. Instructed to stop using the name, the troops came up with \"Stills\" for locals \u2013 because they were \"still Bennies\".\nOver the years the series dealt with storylines which were controversial for the times. A single parent working at the motel was hugely controversial in the mid-1960s, as was Sandy Richardson becoming a permanent wheelchair user after a car accident in 1972. The storyline was developed when actor Roger Tonge had himself become a wheelchair user off screen - when he was diagnosed with Hodgkins Lymphoma - as a way to keep him in the series, thus becoming the first paraplegic regular character portrayed in a British soap opera.\nThe series also saw black characters appearing regularly \u2013 a follow-on from the 1960s BBC soap \"Compact\", also created by Hazel Adair and Peter Ling. Melanie Harper (Cleo Sylvestre) arrived at the motel in 1970 as Meg's foster daughter (itself a taboo issue). Sylvestre was given the role by producer Reg Watson after press coverage of racial tensions in the Birmingham area at that time. In 1978, garage mechanic Joe MacDonald (Carl Andrews) arrived. The year before, an interracial summer romance took place between Cockney garage mechanic Dennis Harper (Guy Ward) and motel receptionist Meena Chaudri (Karan David).\n1981 saw a highly controversial storyline about a false accusation of rape; a 1983 storyline saw a test tube baby born to Glenda and Kevin Banks (Lynette McMorrough and David Moran). The subject of Down syndrome was also raised in 1983 with an insight into the life of Nina Weill, a little girl who, as Nina Paget, was befriended by three of the regular \"Crossroads\" characters.\nThe character of Meg Richardson was axed in 1981 and was thought to have died in a fire that gutted the motel, but turned up alive aboard the \"QE2\", about to sail to a new life overseas. Newspapers reported that three endings were planned for Meg: she would either die in the fire, take sleeping pills or disappear for a while and turn up on the \"QE2\". Viewers were surprised to see producers had used all three. Meg returns briefly in 1983 for a reunion with Jill and Adam on their honeymoon in Venice.\nIn 1985, new producer Phillip Bowman was planning to bring the character of Meg Richardson back into the show as a \"permanent occasional\". Plans were well advanced and scripts were written when Noele Gordon died in April of that year, aged 65. Edward Clayton was brought back as Jill's ex-husband Stan Harvey to read the lines originally written for Gordon.\nIn 1986, the new character Ray Grice played by Al Hunter Ashton was introduced as part of an attempt to create wider storylines.\nRecording for the show ended at Christmas 1987 with the final episode (a feature length finale) broadcast in April 1988 where Jill drives off into the sunset with her lover to open a \"little hotel in the West\" that she thought they could call \"Crossroads\".\nAlthough Crossroads had always been a family run business, others throughout the years had become shareholders, most notably, Tish Hope, Bernard Booth, Gerald Lovejoy, Louise Borelli, David Hunter, Hugh Mortimer, Adam Chance, Barbara Hunter, J. Henry Pollard and his daughter Miranda.\u00a0However, by the early 1980s it became apparent that the family and their shareholders thought differently about the motel's future, and in 1985, it was sold off to\u00a0Major International Hotels, under the management of Nicola Freeman (Gabrielle Drake).\nMIH then sold the motel to\u00a0Tommy Lancaster (Terence Rigby) and his family-run Red Ox business in 1987, transforming it into a luxury hotel that was first named The Crossroads Country Hotel, then, The Kings Oak Country Hotel.\nAfter the death of his wife\u00a0Mary, Tommy put the hotel back on the market and it was bought by another chain, The Three Crowns Group, with the takeover period overseen by Daniel Freeman (Philip Goodhew) \u2013 the stepson of former MIH boss Nicola Freeman.\n2001\u20132003.\nWith the revival in 2001, changes were made to characters and stories. Jill Chance had married John Maddingham (Jeremy Nicholas) and been widowed, but was calling herself Jill Harvey again, the name by which she had been known prior to her marriage to Adam Chance in 1983. In the revival, Jill Harvey owned thirty percent of the hotel, which was never explained as she had divested all her interest in the hotel in 1985 and the original series ended with her opting not to buy the hotel back with her estranged husband Adam Chance. The battle over Jill's shares formed the backbone of the storylines for the new series' early episodes. References were also made to the Russell family taking over a \"failing motel\", despite Crossroads having become a hotel in the late 1980s. In the final episode of the original series, the name 'King's Oak Country Hotel' was seen over the entrance doors.\nLack of real links to the past, and the killing of Jill a few months into the new run, turned many fans away. Popular characters in the new \"Crossroads\" included new owner Kate Russell (Jane Gurnett), supercilious receptionist Virginia Raven (Sherrie Hewson), and womanising deputy manager Jake Booth (Colin Wells). The storyline of the final episode was the revelation that the revived series and glamorous hotel had been a dream of supermarket worker and Crossroads fan Angela, with all the other characters revealed as shoppers. Angela even approaches a female customer in the supermarket and tells her she recognises her as \"Tracey Booth from Crossroads\". Tracey's mother-in-law, Kate, was also shown as one of Angela's colleagues in the supermarket.\nIn the end, Crossroads aired its last ever episode on 30 May 2003.\nProduction history.\nATV era.\n\"Crossroads\" began its run on Monday 2 November 1964 and was first shown five days a week. The episodes were then recorded \"as live\", a very common practice at the time, with very limited opportunities for retakes. Within a few months, 10 of the ITV companies had started broadcasting the series, though Granada never screened it during the 1960s. The Independent Television Authority (ITA) decreed in 1967 that \"Crossroads\" should be reduced in frequency to four episodes per week to improve its quality, by which point the series was no longer networked and each ITV station broadcast the series on different days. The series was widely derided by critics who criticised the wobbly sets and fluffed lines but gained many fans, most famously Prime Minister Harold Wilson's wife Mary Wilson, Lady Wilson of Rievaulx, who complained when the newly formed Thames Television (the franchisee for the London area) decided to stop showing the series in 1968. The decision proved unpopular with viewers and was reversed six months later. It was initially placed in a late afternoon slot. The gap in transmissions meant viewers in the Thames region were about six months behind the rest of the country for several years until just before Meg's wedding in March 1975. \"Crossroads\" was not fully broadcast to all ITV companies until 1972, when Granada took it up. Though second to \"Coronation Street\" in the ratings at the beginning of the decade, \"Crossroads\" did occasionally beat it, gaining audiences of up to 15 million viewers.\nIn 1979, the Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA) \u2013 then commercial television's regulator \u2013 decided production should be reduced further to three episodes a week from April 1980; the IBA chairman, Lady Plowden, reportedly describing the soap opera as \"distressingly popular\". ATV planned to replace the fourth episode with a spin-off series called \"A Family Affair\", but this idea was dropped.\nSeries star Noele Gordon, who played matriarch Meg Richardson, won the \"TV Times\" 'Most Compulsive Female Character' viewers award eight consecutive years during the 1970s. After winning for the eighth time, Gordon was placed in the TVTimes \"Hall of Fame\" and thenceforth ineligible for the award in the future. Viewers reacted negatively to the dismissal of Gordon in 1981, an action taken by head of programming Charles Denton who became a \"national hate figure\". The series producer Jack Barton agreed with Denton, thinking that Gordon's character had become too dominant, but Gordon's final episode gained heavy coverage in the press for some time.\nIn January 2023, ITVX screened a new drama featuring Helena Bonham Carter as Noele Gordon. Written by Russell T Davies, titled \"Nolly,\" it followed her period in and after \"Crossroads\".\nCentral era.\nDespite having maintained its ITV franchise at the end of 1981, ATV was ordered by the IBA to reform into Central Independent Television, which took over the franchise on 1 January 1982 and was thought to show limited enthusiasm for the programmes it inherited. Further changes were introduced in March 1985, when new filming locations, sets and characters were introduced. Storylines began to revolve around new motel owner Nicola Freeman (Gabrielle Drake), and long-term characters like David and Barbara Hunter (Ronald Allen and Sue Lloyd) were axed. The theme tune was also updated, and the opening titles replaced with a longer version. Finally, the show was renamed \"Crossroads Motel\" \u2013 although this fact was never formally announced by the show's production team, and the word \"Motel\" was simply incorporated into the opening titles. The closing titles, which had scrolled in horizontal and vertical 'crossroad' directions since the first episodes, were replaced with conventional scrolling credits.\nIn 1986, William Smethurst took over as producer following the dismissal of his predecessor, Philip Bowman. Smethurst had been brought in by Central Television's new head of drama, Ted Childs, and ordered changes aimed at improving production values and creating a wittier, more upmarket serial. Smethurst shifted the narrative centre to the nearby village of King's Oak, and yet more long-running characters, including fan favourites Diane Hunter (Susan Hanson) and Benny Hawkins (Paul Henry), were dropped; as with earlier changes, this was unpopular with viewers, who telephoned Central in protest. Smethurst gained the nickname \"Butcher Bill\" but was unfazed, having successfully reversed the declining fortunes of BBC radio soap \"The Archers\". Smethurst insisted he only got backlash because his was the name the public knew.\nFurther changes included the series being renamed \"Crossroads Kings Oak\" for a time, with the intention in the future of shortening this to merely \"King's Oak\". However, this final change was overtaken in June 1987 by Andy Allen, Central's director of programmes, who chose to axe the series. The familiar theme tune was replaced in September 1987 by a new theme composed by Max Early and Raf Ravenscroft. New titles were introduced to accompany the new theme, which featured stills of King's Oak and the new King's Oak Country Hotel. Michele Buck guided the show through its final few months on air as series producer, with William Smethurst still on hand as executive producer.\nIn January 1988, the series was reduced to only two episodes a week, with \"Crossroads King's Oak\" finally coming to an end on 4 April 1988 (the Easter bank holiday). The last, extended episode saw the only remaining original character, Jill Chance (Jane Rossington), riding off with her new lover John Maddingham (Jeremy Nicholas). Asked what name she would give the hotel she would be running in her new life, the character remarked, a little sadly, \"I always thought Crossroads was an awfully good name\".\nCarlton era.\nIn April 2000, Carlton Television (who had bought Central in 1994) announced that they would be reviving \"Crossroads\" for the daytime slot on ITV. The first revived episode was broadcast on 5 March 2001 with a glossy format, to the surprise of the wider media. The revived series was sponsored by washing detergent Surf and was broadcast each weekday at 1.30pm and 5.05pm on ITV, with a Sunday omnibus on ITV2. The revived series was also broadcast in Ireland on RT\u00c9 One and in New Zealand on TV One.\nFour characters from the original series returned: Jill Harvey, her daughter Sarah-Jane (Joanne Farrell/Holly Newman), her ex-husband Adam Chance (Tony Adams) and motel cleaner Doris Luke (Kathy Staff). Initial reactions were favourable; however, changes in story from the original were puzzling for fans and did not help ratings. Kathy Staff left in dismay at the show's emphasis on sex, telling ITV Teletext that she felt it was no longer the family-friendly show she had originally been involved with.\nThe decision to kill off original character Jill Harvey, who was murdered by Adam Chance three months into the series' revival, proved unpopular with fans of the original show. Jane Rossington has said that she did not want to commit herself to another long run in the show, but warned Carlton it would be suicidal to kill Jill.\nEpisode 137 of the second revived series remains the only episode never to be shown in full on ITV. The lunchtime screening on Tuesday 11 September 2001 began at 14:10, but during the advertisement break, the programme was interrupted by \"ITV News\" with coverage of the 9/11 attacks in New York City. A short recap of events in Episode 137 was screened before both the 14:10 and 17:05 showings of Episode 138 on 12 September 2001, and the episode was included in the Omnibus edition that Sunday.\nThe series was reduced to four episodes a week from 10 September 2001 until July/August 2002 before increasing 5 episodes per week until 30 August 2002. From there, the series went into a hiatus from until January 2003, during which time further changes were made.\nThe remodelled series, under producer Yvon Grace, appeared to be a self-consciously camp parody with Jane Asher playing a new central character, Angel Samson. The series also featured appearances from Kate O'Mara and Anne Charleston, as well as light entertainment names including Lionel Blair, Les Dennis and Tim Brooke-Taylor. This remodelled revival also launched the careers of Freema Agyeman (\"Doctor Who\", \"\"), Luke Roberts (\"Holby City\" and \"Mile High\"), Lucy Pargeter, Shauna Shim and Jessica Fox.\nYvon Grace admitted she was aiming the new \"Crossroads\" towards an LGBT audience, but fans were displeased by her ambivalence towards unresolved storylines from the 2001\u20132002 run. Plans were in place to bring Adam Chance back on a three-month contract in a last attempt to bring in more viewers; actor Tony Adams said that a down-on-his luck Adam would have been taken under Angel's wing as her personal assistant. But as rating continued declining, the revived series was also axed in March 2003, with the final episode being broadcast on Friday 30 May.\nThe 2003 series was roundly criticised for moving too far away from the premise of the original 1964\u201388 series and the initial 2001\u201302 series, as well as for becoming \"too camp\". Jane Asher later apologised to fans for the way the 2003 series went. The ending scene of the final episode of the (second) revival was considered by many long-term fans to be quite weird and a bizarre surprise, where the entire revived run was revealed to have been entirely the daydream of a supermarket worker, as the Irish Mirror reports here.\nTheme music.\nThe \"Crossroads\" theme tune was composed by Tony Hatch. In 2004 Hatch said:\nA selection of cues was recorded, including \"Meg's Theme\" which eventually became the standard opening theme, \"Kitty's Theme\" which was phased out as action focused on the motel, the closing theme which combined both \"Meg's\" and \"Kitty's\" themes, and a variety of background pieces.\nA rerecording by The Tony Hatch Sound was issued as a single by Pye Records in 1965. A special arrangement of the theme by Wings was occasionally used from the late 1970s, usually when an episode ended with a dramatic event; that version appears on the band's 1975 album \"Venus and Mars\".\nCentral Independent Television's head of music Johnny Patrick rearranged the tune in 1985 for piano and synthesiser, upon the show's relaunch as \"Crossroads Motel\" by producer Philip Bowman. Following William Smethurst's arrival as producer in 1987, this recording was overdubbed with added synthesisers.\nAn entirely new theme aired in late 1987 when the series was relaunched as \"Crossroads, Kings Oak\", composed by Johnny Patrick with Raf Ravenscroft, Max Early and the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra. This later formed the basis of the single released by actress Shona Lindsey, \"Goodbye\", to commemorate the end of the show in 1988. The B-side of Lindsey's single featured the original version of the 1964 Tony Hatch arrangement.\nThe 2001 revival brought back the original Tony Hatch theme, this time arranged and performed by Tony Flynn. Another version, in 2003, was arranged by Patrick Dineen and performed by the Liverpool Philharmonic.\nLocations.\nThe fictional Crossroads Motel was in an equally fictional village near Birmingham, Kings Oak (there are real suburbs in south-west Birmingham called Kings Heath, Kings Norton and Selly Oak). A number of real-life hotels doubled for location filming; it is stated in the 1982 \"Crossroads Special\" that the Longshoot Motel (Nuneaton) was used as a 'blueprint' in designing the motel and it is likely that some scenes were filmed there during the run of the series.\nIn 1970, the series gained an O.B unit, giving it the freedom to do location shooting. Originally, Tanworth-in-Arden, south of Solihull, was used for King's Oak, although outside scenes were only occasionally used. Under Central, more location shooting began to be featured. Some early King's Oak location material was also filmed in Wolverhampton. The most famous location \u2013 as seen in the programme during the 1960s and 1970s was not a motel at all, but The Shropshire Agricultural Institution (now called North Shropshire College). In October 2019 two of the buildings used during filming, teaching block and Bridden accommodation block were removed from the site.\nIt has also been suggested that \"Crossroads\" was filmed at a 1960s motel on Stratford Road in Alcester Warwickshire called CherryTrees (the buildings were demolished in 2001 and a care home was built), however it was a nearby petrol station (now closed) that was used in the early 1980s for filming a couple of outdoor scenes of the Crossroads garage. After the in-story destruction of the motel by fire, the revamped motel was filmed from 1982 at the Golden Valley Hotel (now Jurys Inn) in Cheltenham; from 1985 filming moved to the Penns Hall Hotel (now Ramada Jarvis Birmingham) in Sutton Coldfield, the changed appearance explained as being due to rebuilding. At the time of the move to Sutton Coldfield, new studio sets were also introduced.\nOther locations included the canal (including Gas Street Basin) behind the studios in Birmingham; in-story this was the King's Oak Canal, on which hairdresser Vera Downend had a boat. The Chateau Impney Hotel also featured numerous times, most famously when Hugh proposed to Meg in 1973, and it was used to hold their wedding party two years later. The Chateau Impney was renamed the Droitwich Hotel on-screen. St Laurence's Church in Alvechurch was the setting for Jill and Adam Chance's wedding in 1983. Hagley Hall was used for the wedding reception. Helios Health Club based in Brierley Hill was used as the location for the Motel Health Club, filmed on Mondays when the health club was closed.\nIn 1985, \"Crossroads\" gained its first set of full length opening titles, filmed around Sutton Coldfield, Tanworth-in-Arden and in Birmingham city centre.\nThe revived \"Crossroads\" from 2001 was still set in the West Midlands; however, exterior shots were filmed at locations in and around Nottingham, such as Bingham and Redmile.\nThe original series was recorded at ATV's/Central's Broad Street studios in Birmingham, while the revived series was filmed at Carlton Studios in Nottingham.\nCritical reception.\nCritics disliked the show from the start, but it struck a chord with the viewing public, and trounced rival daytime soaps like \"General Hospital\". Because it was made on a shoestring budget, and because of the number of episodes produced per week, its flaws and inconsistencies became noticeable. The sets wobbled, actors fluffed their lines and some popular characters simply disappeared; for example, Benny Hawkins (Paul Henry) was last seen on-screen ascending a ladder to put a fairy at the top of a Christmas tree, and never appeared again.\nDespite the popularity of \"Crossroads\" with the viewing public, the show was often criticised by TV reviewers and ridiculed by British comedians. Television historian Hilary Kingsley stated that \"Crossroads\" never failed \"to provide its critics with ammunition. Some of the acting would have disgraced the humblest of village halls; many of the plots were so farcical they could have been written in a bad dream, and much of the dialogue was pathetic.\" \"The Guinness Book of Classic British TV\" noted that \"\"Crossroads\" was the series that no-one seemed to love. Yet at its peak, it was watched by more viewers than any other soap except \"Coronation Street\".\"\nThe revived series also received mixed reviews from critics.\n\"Acorn Antiques\".\nSpoof soap opera \"Acorn Antiques\", created by comedian Victoria Wood as part of \"Victoria Wood As Seen on TV\", is a deliberate parody of \"Crossroads\". The final episode of \"As Seen on TV\" features a faux documentary, 'The Making of Acorn Antiques', in which the actress playing Mrs Overall (Julie Walters) \u2013 a character based on \"Crossroads\" characters Amy Turtle (Ann George) and Mavis Hooper (Charmian Eyre) \u2013 is revealed as a rather grand character who considers herself a huge star. This portrayal, plus a later pretend news item, in which it is revealed she has been sacked from the show, suggest the actress character (later given the name Bo Beaumont in the musical based on the sketches) is based on Noele Gordon, with Bo making her 'goodbye' appearance to the press in headscarf and large sunglasses, similar to Gordon.\nLegacy.\nIn 1974 Crossroads did something unprecedented. It spun a plot that led to the creation of a charity - Crossroads Care. Meg Richardson (Noele Gordon) had a son, Sandy (Roger Tonge), who in a storyline began using a wheelchair after a car accident. Meg became his primary carer but was due to take a month's holiday and faced the dilemma of who would care for Sandy while she was away. She created the fictional support group Caring for Carers and the storyline struck a chord with the viewing public.\nIt wasn't long before handicapped viewers or their families started calling in asking for information about the support group launched by Meg in the show. The only problem was that the support group was fictional and didn't exist. Recognizing an urgent need, Crossroads set up a charitable organization to fill the gap in care provision highlighted by its own storyline. ATV invested \u00a310,000 (\u00a3130,000 in 2024) for a pilot scheme for 28 families and Crossroads, Caring for Carers was born. A successful charity emerged from the show with the purpose of delivering respite care services and support for unpaid carers across the United Kingdom.\nWhat started as a television-inspired initiative grew into one of the UK's leading providers of support for carers and the people they care for. Spanning decades of work, Crossroads Care evolved but at its core, it remains devoted to alleviating the pressures faced by unpaid family carers.\nLong Lasting Legacy.\nThe organization's vital importance was highlighted even more during the COVID-19 pandemic where the need for carer support was brought sharply into focus. Crossroads Care's services became a beacon of hope and relief to many who were isolated or struggling to balance the weight of their caring responsibilities.\nThe charity is now a network of more than 120 local, independent charities with many still carrying the Crossroads name. It remains focused on supporting the contribution that unpaid carers make. For a television show to create such an impactful legacy is rare.\nDVD release.\nNetwork issued four volumes of the series on DVD (UK Region 2) in 2005, with 12 of the original ATV episodes in each volume (the first release including Meg's 1975 wedding,the highest rated episode), shortly followed \"Crossroads volume 2\" was released (this second release included the 1981\"Crossroads\" fire, the third release was delayed due to the loss of ATV documents listing which episodes still exist, and ITV staff having to use other resources to locate episodes.\n\"Crossroads Volume 3\" was released on 26 February 2007. There are two versions of the DVD, one being a special limited edition, which contains an extra third disc \u2013 featuring recently found episodes from 1976. \"Crossroads Volume 4\" was released on 17 September 2007.\nNetwork was in the process of releasing all known surviving episodes (at the time) in transmission order exclusively through its website. The first set of 16 episodes was released in January 2008 and contained some episodes not previously available on earlier DVD releases. There are apparently 1,700 episodes of \"Crossroads\" in existence; most of these are from Central Television's run of the show from 1982 to 1988. Over 20 archive volumes of \"Crossroads\", \"with each and every surviving episode in transmission order\", have been released so far, with \"Crossroads Archive Volume 20\" the most recently released, in April 2009.\nOn 2 November 2009, to coincide with the show's 45th anniversary, Network re-released the 21 volumes \u2013 including Volume 1.1, see below \u2013 in a 41-disc box-set. Susan Hanson, who played Diane Hunter, appeared on \"The Alan Titchmarsh Show\" and \"Loose Women\" on 6 and 13 November 2009 respectively, to promote the box-set.\nA black and white \"Crossroads Archive Volume 1.1\" has also been released, containing the episode from April 1965, along with 2 further episodes (nos. 1884 and 1886 from March 1973, which were both originally made in colour but now survive only as black and white telerecordings).\nOn 1 December 2022, Network distribution under licence by ITV Studios announced a new DVD boxset titled \"Crossroads: The Noele Gordon Collection\", a 94-disc DVD boxset. Containing over 700 episodes, of every episode known to exist from 1964, until the episode that originally aired on, 31 December 1981 including Gordon's last appearance in November 1981. Alongside special features, including. Noele's return - the episodes filmed in Venice in 1983, Original trailers and promos. Archive interviews with Noele Gordon, Crossroads: Thirty Years On, and Crossroads Revisited documentaries. An Exclusive photo souvenir magazine and much more! was released on 30 January 2023. In February 2023 Network re-released \"Crossroads volume 1\" and \"Crossroads volume 2\" together as a four DVD set, with new sleeve and disc artwork and titled \"Crossroads Classics\".\nRepeats.\nFrom 1996 until 2000, episodes of the original series were repeated on UKTV channel UK Gold, airing three times a day at 7.30\u00a0am, 12.00\u00a0pm and 6.00\u00a0pm starting on Monday 4 November 1996 onwards, the first episode shown was Episode 3543 (originally aired on Thursday 3 December 1981) until the last original episode (Episode 4510 \u2013 aired on Monday 4 April 1988) concluded the repeat run on Friday 28 July 2000. For a brief period between February and September 2015, the original series aired on Big Centre TV on Freeview channel 8 in the Midlands or available online live at 9.00\u00a0pm each evening Monday to Saturday, which could also be watched free on their catchup service. As of 15 July 2021, a few selected episodes from the original series are available on BritBox, a subscription only service curated by the BBC and ITV.\nSpin-offs.\nComic strip.\n\"Crossroads\" was adapted into a weekly comic strip in 1972 by Dutch comics artist Alfred Mazure, published in TVTimes."}
{"id": "709037", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709037", "title": "Azerbaijan (disambiguation)", "text": "Azerbaijan, officially the Republic of Azerbaijan, is a country in the South Caucasus.\nAzerbaijan, Azarbaijan or Az\u0259rbaycan may also refer to:"}
{"id": "709040", "revid": "27856325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709040", "title": "Diggers Rest railway station", "text": "Diggers Rest station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne on the Sunbury line, which is part of the Melbourne rail network. It serves the north-western suburb of Diggers Rest, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Diggers Rest station is a ground level unstaffed station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 2 October 1859, with the current station provided in 2012.\nHistory.\nDiggers Rest opened on 2 October 1859, eight months after the railway line from Sunshine was extended to Sunbury. Like the suburb itself, the station was named after the fact that the area was used as a resting place for prospectors travelling to Bendigo during the Victorian gold rush.\nAt the time of opening, a small goods shed and siding were provided. In 1928, interlocked gates were provided at the Calder Highway level crossing, located at the down end of the station, and were replaced with boom barriers in 1982. In 1989, the goods siding was abolished and, in 1992, the remaining crossover was removed. The waiting room and booking lobby inside the building on Platform 1 were also provided in that year and, along with the signal box, was restored in 2002, after being damaged by fire during the previous year. On 16 April 2005, the signal box was abolished, as part of the Regional Fast Rail project.\nOn 18 November 2012, the station was added to the metropolitan network, when the line between Watergardens and Sunbury was electrified. As part of those works, the station was refurbished, with both platforms extended at the up (Flinders Street) end. The car park was also enlarged.\nOn 21 October 2022, the Level Crossing Removal Project announced that the Old Calder Highway level crossing was to be grade separated with a road over rail design. Also in that year, both platforms were extended in length, from .\nPlatforms and services.\nDiggers Rest has two side platforms. It is served by Sunbury line trains.\nTransport links.\nSunbury Bus Service operates two routes via Diggers Rest station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709041", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709041", "title": "Yechiel Michel Epstein", "text": "Yechiel Michel ha-Levi Epstein ()\n(24 January 1829 \u2013 25 March 1908), often called \"the \"Aruch haShulchan\"\" after his magnum opus, \"Aruch HaShulchan\", was a Rabbi and \"posek\" (authority in Jewish law) in Lithuania.\nBiography.\nYechiel Michel Epstein was born on 24 January 1829 in Babruysk, Russian Empire (presently in Belarus) to Aharon Yitzchak and Rashka Epstein.\nHis father Aharon Yitzchak Epstein was a builder and contractor who spend much of his time traveling for his work, which were often projects of the Czarist government.\nHe had one brother, Benjamin Beinush Epstein, who lived in Saint Petersburg. The two brothers stayed in touch over the years, and when Epstein needed to travel to Saint Petersburg\u2014usually to submit his writings to the Russian censor before publishing\u2014he would stay at his brother's house.\nAs a child, Epstein studied in a traditional Cheder. His original intent was to follow in his father's footsteps: to work as a merchant, while dedicating time to daily Torah study. In his youth, he engaged in trade and was fluent in Russian, a skill not commonly found in rabbis at that time. However, Rabbi Eliyahu Goldberg, rabbi of the nearby town of Parichi (and a student of Rabbi Chaim of Volozhin), took an interest in the youth; the rabbi convinced Epstein to leave commerce and dedicate himself to Torah study. Soon after, Epstein left for the famed Volozhin yeshiva, where he studied for two years.\nIn Volozhin, he met and started a lifelong friendship with Rabbi Naftali Zvi Yehuda Berlin (the \"Netziv\"), who later became the \"rosh yeshiva\" (head) of the Volozhin Yeshiva. After finishing his studies there, Epstein married Berlin's sister Michlah. (Epstein later became Berlin's father-in-law, when Berlin remarried to Epstein's daughter Batya Miriam after the death of his first wife.)\nAfter his marriage, Epstein returned to Babruysk, and he taught in the Altshul yeshiva there.\nHe received \"semicha\" (rabbinic ordination) from Rabbi Eliyahu Goldberg, who had been appointed rabbi and Av Beit Din of the Mitnagged community of Babruysk in 1852.\nBy 1862, Epstein was serving as a dayan (religious judge) on Goldberg's beit din. Most of the family's income, however, came from his wife's fabric store. When eulogizing his wife, Epstein remarked\u2014perhaps in exaggeration\u2014that for 30 years Michlah ran the family store, and he did not even know where the store was located.\nIn 1864, at the age of 35, Epstein was appointed rabbi of Novozybkov (east of Gomel, now Bryansk region), a town with a large number of Hasidic Jews, mainly adherents of Chabad Lubavitch and Chernobyl. Several months after arriving in Novozybkov, Epstein traveled to Lubavitch where he visited Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn, also known as the Tzemach Tzedek, the third rebbe (spiritual leader) of the Chabad Lubavitch Hasidic Jews. His major endeavor during this period was writing his first work, \"Ohr LaYesharim\", a commentary to \"Sefer HaYashar\" of Rabbeinu Tam. He printed the first volume of this work in 1869, but lacked the funds to publish more.\nIn 1874, after ten years as rabbi in Novozybkov, Epstein was appointed as the rabbi of Navahrudak, where he would serve for 34 years, until his death. Here, he was recognized as a \"posek\" (decisor of Jewish law), and he was to compose most of his writings in Navahrudak.\nEpstein was involved in many charitable endeavors. He was particularly close to Rabbi Shmuel Salant, the chief rabbi of Jerusalem, and wrote extensively on the obligation of all Jews to support the Rabbi Meir Baal Haneis charity that Rabbi Salant founded in Israel in 1860.\nEpstein died on 22 Adar II 5668 (25 March 1908) and is buried in Navahrudak.\nChildren.\nThe Epsteins had 5 children:\nProminent rabbis he ordained.\nAs a well-known authority of Halakha, many young scholars asked to receive his \"semicha\" (rabbinic ordination).\nBelow is a partial list of prominent rabbis whom Epstein ordained:"}
{"id": "709043", "revid": "4770293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709043", "title": "Atrus", "text": ""}
{"id": "709044", "revid": "27856325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709044", "title": "Sunbury railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Sunbury station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne and V/Line on the Sunbury line and the Bendigo and Echuca regional lines, which are part of the Melbourne and Victorian rail networks. It opened on 10 February 1859, with the current station being provided in 2012.\nThe station is the terminus of the Sunbury line and is part of the Deniliquin rail line. The disused Rupertswood station is located between Sunbury and Clarkefield.\nHistory.\nSunbury station opened as a terminus, with the railway line not extended further for two years. The three-track yard dates from that time, and was unique in Victoria. There was a large goods shed on the southern side, a large silo on the northern side, as well as sheep and cattle ramps and yards. There was also housing for railway staff, including two houses in Horne Street, and the stationmaster's house in Brook Street, which were all demolished in the 1980s.\nUntil 1981, proper interlocking of the signals and point work did not exist, and the station was not fully interlocked until 1998, when Solid State Interlocking was provided. On 16 April 2005, that interlocking was abolished, as part of the Regional Fast Rail project.\nIn late 1993, the station was refurbished, with upgrades included an enclosed booking lobby, an air-conditioned waiting room, repainting of the station buildings, and landscaping of the garden area around the station. In 2005, as part of the Regional Fast Rail project, the layout of the station was again altered.\nOn 18 November 2012, Sunbury station was added to the metropolitan network, when the line from Watergardens was electrified. The station was also upgraded as part of those works. Electrification of the line to Sunbury had first been proposed in the 1970s, along with a new station along the Sunbury bank north of the Jackson Creek bridge, to serve the Goonawarra housing estate. However, after a drop in population estimates, that idea was abandoned.\nIn 1940, flashing-light warning signals were provided at the former Gap Road level crossing, which was located at the up end of the station, with boom barriers provided in 1983. In 2005, the level crossing was modified as part of the Regional Fast Rail project and, in 2012, was modified again, as part of the electrification of the line to Sunbury. On 30 November 2018, the Level Crossing Removal Project announced that the level crossing would be grade separated, with the road passing underneath the railway line. The project was brought forward from 2025, and was completed in September 2022.\nPlatforms and services.\nSunbury has two side platforms and is served by Sunbury line trains, as well as V/Line Bendigo and Echuca line trains.\nRegional.\nIn 2025, it is planned that trains on the Sunbury line will be through-routed with those on the Pakenham and Cranbourne lines, via the new Metro Tunnel.\nTransport links.\nCDC Melbourne operates one bus route to and from Sunbury station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nDysons operates one bus route to and from Sunbury station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:\nSunbury Bus Service operates eight routes to and from Sunbury station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709047", "revid": "47722236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709047", "title": "Craigieburn railway station", "text": "Craigieburn station is a railway station operated by Metro Trains Melbourne and V/Line railway station on the Craigieburn line and regional Seymour line, part of the Melbourne and Victorian rail networks. It serves the northern suburb of Craigieburn in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Craigieburn station is a ground level premium station, featuring two side platforms. It opened on 22 July 1872, with the current station provided in 2010.\nHistory.\nThe railway through Craigieburn originally opened in 1872, as part of the North East line to School House Lane. When the station opened, there was a small timber station building, which was replaced by a larger building in 1878, having the same design as other small stations on the line. In 1874, the station opened to goods traffic. In 1920, a larger timber station building was constructed on Platform 1.\nThe station originally had a passing loop, which was used regularly to cross trains until the line was duplicated in 1886. In 1899, a lever frame was provided on the down platform, which was moved to the new station building in 1922. A number of goods sidings were provided at the station, with the last siding removed in 1982. In 1961, the old Hume Highway road overpass opened, replacing a level crossing, as part of the construction of the North East standard gauge project. In 1975, the former sheep and cattle races at the station were abolished. In 1988, the signal box was closed, all signals were removed, and the station was abolished as a block post. In 1996, a small building was constructed on Platform 1, housing a kiosk and ticket facilities.\nIn 2007, the station was rebuilt as a premium station, as part of the extension of electrified services from Broadmeadows, with a signal box, stabling sidings and a crossover also provided. On 30 September of that year, former suburban train operator Connex began services to and from the station.\nIn March 2009, Platform 1 was demolished and rebuilt to a similar design to Platform 2. The track on Platform 1 was also electrified, and additional crossovers were provided at the up and down ends of the station, to allow down trains to diverge to the up line.\nOn 4 May 2010, a collision between a Comeng train set and a Kilmore East-bound quarry train, hauled by Pacific National locomotive G524, occurred between Roxburgh Park and Craigieburn.\nTrain maintenance facility.\nOn 9 April 2012, a new train maintenance facility, located to the north of the station, was officially opened by then Minister for Public Transport, Terry Mulder. The $220 million facility consists of a stabling yard and large maintenance depot to accommodate up to 25 trains, along with staff facilities, train wash and additional support equipment.\nPlatforms and services.\nCraigieburn has two side platforms. It is served by Craigieburn line trains and V/Line Seymour line trains. Suburban services generally use Platform 2, with northbound V/Line services often crossing to Platform 1 to pass suburban trains.\nTransport links.\nNine bus routes operate to and from Craigieburn station, under contract to Public Transport Victoria:"}
{"id": "709050", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709050", "title": "Sir Robert Holborne", "text": ""}
{"id": "709056", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709056", "title": "Belgrave (Puffing Billy) railway station", "text": "Belgrave (Puffing Billy) railway station is situated at the edge of Belgrave, a suburb of Melbourne in the Australian state of Victoria. It is the inner terminal of the famous Puffing Billy heritage steam railway.\nBelgrave (Puffing Billy) is adjacent to, and forms an interchange with, Belgrave suburban railway station, which is the outer terminal of the Belgrave line of Melbourne's broad gauge (5\u00a0ft 3in) electric suburban network. The suburban station is accessible via a short footpath. Before this station was built, the original narrow gauge line ran from the original site of the narrow-gauge station (approximately where the existing Metro station car park is) to Selby station."}
{"id": "709057", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709057", "title": "Selby railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Selby railway station is a railway station on the narrow-gauge Puffing Billy tourist railway. It is located in the suburb of the same name. The station consists of a short platform and corrugated iron waiting shelter. Trains do not normally stop here but will stop if required.\nHistory.\nThe station was opened in May 1904, and was named after the local landowner and Shire President George W. Selby. It was originally part of the Upper Ferntree Gully to Gembrook line. In 1921, the construction of a railway siding was proposed. In 1953, a major landslide occurred between Selby and Menzies Creek station, causing the Gembrook line's closure in 1954.\nIn 1962, Selby station reopened to passenger traffic when the section from Belgrave to Menzies Creek was reopened as the Puffing Billy Railway."}
{"id": "709058", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709058", "title": "Menzies Creek railway station", "text": "Menzies Creek railway station, formerly known as Aura railway station, is located on the Puffing Billy Railway in the town of the same name.\nHistory.\nIt was opened with the line on 18 December 1900. It was named after an early settler John Menzies. On 5 December 1904 it was renamed Aura, after the estate of the Shire President. The station reverted to its previous name on 4 July 1947. Throughout this period, the Post Office kept the name of the town as Menzies Creek which it remains to this day.\nWhen the station was operating under the Victorian Railways it had a loop siding, a standard portable station building, and a goods shed. As the original station building had long been demolished, a replacement building of reclaimed Victorian Railways' \"portables\" was built in the 1980s. In 1990 the station buildings was moved to its current position as an island platform during a construction exercise undertaken by combat engineers of the 7th Field Engineer Regiment (Australian Army Reserve).\nPlatforms and layout.\nMenzies Creek has an island crossing platform with a track on each side, a loop siding and a siding into the Puffing Billy Narrow Gauge Museum.\nFacilities.\nThe station now is home to the Aura Tearooms, the Puffing Billy Narrow Gauge Museum, and a Signal bay containing a 14-lever interlocking frame."}
{"id": "709061", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709061", "title": "Clematis railway station", "text": "Clematis railway station is situated on the Puffing Billy Railway, near the town of Clematis, Victoria.\nThe station originated as an unnamed stopping place along the narrow gauge line from Upper Fern Tree Gully. In May 1902, the Victorian Railways requested that Fern Tree Gully Shire Council supply a name; the council selected Paradise Valley over the alternative, Lambie. A journalist on the line in 1903 observed that \"stations on the line are only so by courtesy\"; there were no facilities except an earthen platform. By 1909, the station was known simply as Paradise.\nIn 1921, the station was again renamed to Clematis to match the name of the nearby post office, with the aim of reducing confusion for passengers. A Fern Tree Gully councillor lamented \"Paradise lost\".\nTrains rarely stop here, except by prior arrangement, often for groups travelling to the Paradise Hotel (behind the station). Clematis contains a small loop siding with a dead end spur, which are staff operated."}
{"id": "709062", "revid": "27062869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709062", "title": "Berlin School of experimental psychology", "text": "The Berlin School of Experimental Psychology was founded by Carl Stumpf, a pupil of Franz Brentano and Hermann Lotze and a professor at the University of Berlin, in 1893. It adhered to the method of experimental phenomenology, which understood it as the science of phenomena. It is also noted as the originator of Gestalt psychology. Noted members include Max Wertheimer, Kurt Koffka, and Wolfgang K\u00f6hler.\nHistory.\nStumpf founded the Berlin Laboratory of Experimental Psychology in 1893. The institute, which is also known as the school of Gestalt psychology, was part of the University of Berlin. It was a refinement of Brentano's neo-Aristotelian theory or the study of phenomena's qualitative properties. After the German revolution, the Berlin laboratory relocated to a wing of the former Imperial Palace. This marked the expansion of the Berlin school after it was forced to reduce its operations during the war. The new facility, which was also supported by the Society for Experimental Psychology, focused on applied work and incorporated its own laboratory so that it became an expanded university institute. Stumpf was the chair of the institute for 26 years. He was succeeded by Wolfgang K\u00f6hler.\nStumpf influenced his pupils such as Wertheimer, Koffka, K\u00f6hler, and Kurt Lewin, and these contributed to the school's development. Lewin, for instance, developed a set of models and ideas linked to change management theory and practice. These psychologists further refined Stumpf's work, which facilitated experimental investigation that culminated in the development of Gestalt psychology. These psychologists stressed the primacy of objects as units of experience, instead of sensations.\nOnly after K\u00f6hler took over the direction of the psychology institute in 1922 did the Berlin School effectively become a school for Gestalt psychology."}
{"id": "709063", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709063", "title": "Emerald railway station, Victoria", "text": "Emerald railway station is situated on the Puffing Billy Railway in Victoria, Australia. It was opened with the Railway on 18 December 1900 and comprised a platform track and a loop siding.\nIn 1967 a new carriage workshop was opened behind the former goods yard."}
{"id": "709064", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709064", "title": "Offset (botany)", "text": "In botany and horticulture, an offset (also called a pup, mainly in the US,) is a small, virtually complete daughter plant that has been naturally and asexually produced on the mother plant. They are clones, meaning that they are genetically identical to the mother plant. They can divide mitotically. In the plant nursery business and gardens, they are detached and grown in order to produce new plants. This is a cheap and simple process for those plants that readily produce offsets as it does not usually require specialist materials and equipment.\nAn offset or 'pup' may also be used as a broad term to refer to any short shoot originating from the ground at the base of another shoot. The term 'sucker' has also been used as well, especially for bromeliads, which can be short lived plants and when the parent plant has flowered, they signal the root nodes to form new plants.\nOffsets form when meristem regions of plants, such as axillary buds or homologous structures, differentiate into a new plant with the ability to become self-sustaining. This is particularly common in species that develop underground storage organs, such as bulbs, corms and tubers. Tulips and lilies are examples of plants that display offset characteristics by forming cormlets around the original mother corm. In the UK, the term 'bulbils' is used for lilies. It can take up to 3 years for the bulbil to store enough energy to produce a flower stem. although larger bulbs (such as \"Cardiocrinum giganteum\") may take 5 to 7 years before flowering.\nIt is a means of plant propagation. When propagating plants to increase a stock of a cultivar, thus seeking identical copies of parent plant, various cloning techniques (asexual reproduction) are used. Offsets are a natural means by which plants may be cloned.\nIn contrast, when propagating plants to create new cultivars, sexual reproduction through pollination is used to create seeds. The recombination of genes gives rise to offspring plant with similar but distinct offspring genome."}
{"id": "709065", "revid": "337983824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709065", "title": "Aruch ha-Shulchan", "text": ""}
{"id": "709066", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709066", "title": "Nobelius railway station", "text": "Nobelius railway station is situated on the Puffing Billy Railway, and opened in 1927. It was named after the founder of the nearby Gembrook Nurseries, Carl Axel Nobelius, and his family.\nThe station consists of a short platform with a \"Mallee Shed\"-type corrugated iron waiting shelter, which includes a small lockable room, although there was a more substantial building in the past. Trains do not usually stop at the station, except by prior arrangement."}
{"id": "709067", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709067", "title": "Lakeside railway station, Melbourne", "text": "Lakeside railway station is situated on the Puffing Billy Railway in Melbourne, Australia. It was opened in 1944 to serve Emerald Lake Park, a popular picnic and recreation reserve created during World War II. The station originally consisted of a short single-face platform on the up side of the line, approximately on the site of the current locomotive water tanks. It had a name board and a red flag for intending passengers to signal to the train crew, but no shelter.\nLakeside today is a staff station, with a passing loop, island platform and waiting shelters. A booking office and refreshment room is across the track on what was the post-reopening single-face platform. There is also a second loop siding beyond the former park access road for the single-face third platform which services the Visitor Centre. A short, dead-end spur extends past the down end of this loop siding.\nOf interest is a working wig-wag level crossing warning signal, which operates at the former park access road between the platform and storage siding. It is believed to be the only regularly operating wig-wag signal in Victoria.\nAustralia's biggest model railway, the Emerald Lake Model Railway, is located near the station."}
{"id": "709068", "revid": "1251986311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709068", "title": "Metroad", "text": "Metroads were the primary road routes serving the Sydney and Brisbane metropolitan areas from the 1990s to the early 2010s. The Metroads formed a network of radial and circumferential routes throughout the cities, simplifying navigation. Metroads have been progressively phased out in both Sydney and Brisbane, replaced by alphanumeric route numbers. Brisbane is the only city currently retaining the Metroad system.\nHistory.\nHistorically, National Routes passed through city centres and formed some of the main thoroughfares within Australia's largest cities. However urban growth led to massive congestion in the inner city areas. To bypass these centres, new roads were either constructed or main suburban roads were linked together to form ring roads linking one National Route to the other. The earliest scheme was adopted in Sydney in 1964, the Ring Road scheme. They had special markers for identification.\nIntra-urban navigation was made increasingly difficult by urban sprawl. Many States introduced State Route systems in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, and many roads within metropolitan areas were included. This scheme was adopted by most major cities. In Sydney the State Routes superseded the Ring Road scheme. Urban freeways in Sydney and Brisbane had their own route marking scheme.\nHowever, it was later realised that the multiplicity of urban route marking schemes led to confusion. In the 1990s, these were streamlined in the new Metroad scheme. This scheme ensures that main priority routes are clearly identified and marked. As far as possible, urban freeways are absorbed into the system. It was adopted in Sydney in 1993 and Brisbane in 1996. Metroads usually completely replaced the State Routes and National Routes along their routes; however, State Routes not on designated Metroads were usually left untampered.\nMetroad routes in both Sydney and Brisbane are being replaced by alphanumeric routes. Brisbane Metroads began to be phased out around 2010, with Sydney Metroads completely phased out at the end of 2013.\nAs of 2015, the Department of Main Roads in Queensland have no plans to convert/decommission the remaining Metroad sections within Brisbane.\nList of Metroads.\nSydney Metroads.\nThe Metroad navigation system was introduced to Sydney in 1992, with six routes (Metroads 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7). The scheme was extended in 1998-1999 with the signposting of Metroads 6, 9 and 10 (there was never a Metroad 8). All Metroads in Sydney were completely replaced in 2013 with equivalent alphanumeric road markers.\nFormer Metroads.\nSections of Metroads 1, 2, 5, and 7 formed the Sydney Orbital Network circumnavigating the Sydney metropolitan area.\nBrisbane Metroads.\nBrisbane's Metroad system employed odd numbers for north-to-south alignments and even numbers for east-to-west alignments. Most Metroads have since been completely or partially replaced with equivalent alphanumeric road markers. Brisbane is the only city currently retaining the Metroad system."}
{"id": "709069", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709069", "title": "Wright railway station", "text": "Wright railway station is situated on the Puffing Billy Railway, Melbourne, Australia.\nIt opened on 24 October 1904 as part of the Gembrook railway line. It served the Wright Forest and small township of Avonsleigh, and consisted of only a small Mallee shed and a name board.\nWhen the Gembrook line was officially closed on 30 April 1954, the site fell into disrepair, and by the 1990s, little trace of Wright remained. However, by that time, efforts were being made to extend the railway to the entire length of the original line from Lakeside through to Gembrook. Wright was officially re-opened on 18 October 1998, but a replica of the original shed was not rebuilt until sometime later.\nTrains do not normally stop at Wright."}
{"id": "709072", "revid": "81090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709072", "title": "Fire signal", "text": ""}
{"id": "709074", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709074", "title": "Cockatoo railway station", "text": "Cockatoo railway station is situated on the Puffing Billy Railway in the town of the same name.\nIt opened with the line on 18 December 1900 as Devon, but was renamed Cockatoo Creek on 29 July 1901 and subsequently shortened to Cockatoo in 1904. There was originally a platform road and a loop siding, but a crossing loop was later added in between the two. A single 12ft by 20\u00a0ft timber portable station building was provided which was later extended. Other associated buildings such as toilets and a van good shed were also on the platform while a weatherboard goods shed was provided on the loop siding (No. 3 Road).\nToday, the loop siding has been provided again along with the platform track, but the crossing loop is yet to be rebuilt. A platform exists which initially had a temporary non-heritage building provided for safe working purposes only, but during 2007 a heritage type building, obtained second-hand from another Victorian station, was relocated to Cockatoo. Although it is not representative of the original building, it nevertheless is a typical building of the day and now provides a more suitable safe working office than the non-heritage building previously used for this purpose, which was subsequently removed in 2009. Whilst trains normally stop at Cockatoo, very few passengers join or alight.\nPlans to recreate all structures on the platform to their mid-1920s configuration are well advanced with a start to be made in the very near future."}
{"id": "709076", "revid": "45738846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709076", "title": "Frederick H. Billings", "text": "Frederick H. Billings (September 27, 1823 \u2013 September 30, 1890) was an American lawyer, financier, and politician. He is known for his legal work on land claims during the early years of California's statehood and his presidency of the Northern Pacific Railway from 1879 to 1881.\nA native of Royalton, Vermont, Billings graduated from the University of Vermont in 1844, became an attorney, and moved to California during the 1848 California Gold Rush. He took part in the creation of a prominent law firm that handled land title cases, which were an important issue because California had been under the jurisdiction of several governments. Billings also took part in several business ventures that proved successful, and became a millionaire by the age of 30. At the start of the American Civil War, he worked diligently to keep California from seceding.\nAfter returning to Vermont in the mid 1860s, Billings continued to practice law and take part in business ventures. He served on the boards of directors of several corporations, and was a major investor in the Northern Pacific Railway. Billings received credit for rescuing the NP after the Panic of 1873, and served as its president from 1879 to 1881. He resigned the presidency after a hostile takeover, but remained on the board of directors and saw construction of the railroad through to completion in 1883.\nBillings took part in politics as a Republican. He was a candidate for governor of Vermont in 1872, and nearly won the party's nomination. He was also a delegate to the Republican National Conventions of 1880 and 1884, where he supported George F. Edmunds for president. Billings donated millions of dollars to numerous causes and organizations, including schools, colleges, libraries, and churches.\nAfter suffering a stroke in 1889, Billings' health deteriorated, and he died at his Woodstock, Vermont home on September 23, 1890. His body was buried at River Street Cemetery in Woodstock.\nEarly life.\nBillings was born in Royalton, Vermont on September 27, 1823, to Oel Billings and Sarah (Wetherbe) Billings. When he was 12, his family relocated to Woodstock, and Billings attended the schools of Royalton and Woodstock. He began attendance at Meriden, New Hampshire's Kimball Union Academy in 1839. In 1844, he graduated from the University of Vermont (UVM) with an A.M. degree. In June 1890, UVM awarded Billings the honorary degree of LL.D.\nOriginally a Whig and later a Republican, from 1846 to 1848 he served as Secretary of Civil and Military Affairs (chief assistant) to Horace Eaton, the governor of Vermont. He studied law with Oliver P. Chandler and attained admission to the bar in 1848.\nCareer.\nMove to California.\nBillings moved to San Francisco during the California Gold Rush of 1848, where he became the city's first land claims lawyer. One of his first clients was John Sutter. A friend Billings made on the trip introduced him to Bennet C. Riley, who served as the last military governor before California achieved statehood in 1850. Riley was favorably impressed with Billings' abilities, and appointed him San Francisco's commissioner of deeds, chairman of the city's board of inspectors and judges, and territorial attorney general. Billings also took part in several business activities. Upon arrival in California, he bought an old canal boat, then made a profit by quickly reselling its timbers. With this stake, he invested in other profitable ventures, including \"water lots\" -- property which was under the water of San Francisco Bay but was intended for reclamation and development.\nBillings partnered with Henry Halleck, Archibald C. Peachy, and Trenor W. Park in Halleck, Peachy &amp; Billings, which became a leading law firm in San Francisco. HPB took part in two important land ownership cases, which were complex because California had been part of Mexico, so land titles were in dispute. In the first, ownership of the New Almaden quicksilver mine, Billings undertook a risky 1859 trip to Mexico City in search of documents and witnesses at a time when the city was besieged by the forces of President Benito Ju\u00e1rez as Ju\u00e1rez attempted to reclaim control of Mexico's government. HPB lost the case despite Billings receiving praise for producing what legal observers called the most extensive and detailed research they had seen for a single land case. In the second, HPB attempted to defend the Rancho Las Mariposas claim of John C. Fr\u00e9mont. So many gold miners had occupied the land by the time Fr\u00e9mont attempted to assert his ownership that he was unable to take possession. Despite the setback, Billings and Fr\u00e9mont continued to work together on business opportunities including real estate and mining.\nAmong the other ventures in which Billings had an interest was the Overland Stage Company, of which he was an early promoter, and the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad, which later became the Texas and Pacific Railway. By age 30, Billings was a millionaire from his legal fees, increases in real estate values, and profits from his other enterprises, including part ownership of San Francisco's Montgomery Block, the largest office building west of St. Louis at its 1853 opening.\nDuring his years in San Francisco, Billings also developed a reputation for philanthropy, including donations for churches, schools, and parks. Billings was an early advocate for the conservation of Yosemite Valley for the use of future generations. He was also a trustee of the College of California (later, the University of California at Berkeley) and it was Billings who suggested that the college be named for George Berkeley.\nAmerican Civil War.\nDuring the late 1850s, as the United States drew closer to conflict over the slavery issue, Billings spoke tirelessly against California secession, successfully opposing a pro-slavery faction led by Democrats including William Gwin. He subsequently embarked on several trips to Europe in an unsuccessful effort to sell Fr\u00e9mont's Mariposa mine shares. At the start of the American Civil War, Billings acted as Fr\u00e9mont's agent when Fr\u00e9mont took the initiative to purchase arms in England for use by Union troops.\nUpon returning to the United States in 1861, Billings met Julia Parmly in New York City. They decided to wed soon after meeting, and Billings returned to California to wind down the law firm's business and sell some of his properties before returning to New York City to get married. Billings then returned to San Francisco; in September 1862, he was a featured speaker at a San Francisco rally to raise money for the care of sick and wounded soldiers. In October 1863, Billings was the featured speaker at a San Francisco event held to celebrate recent Union military victories. In November 1863, Billings defended several individuals who attempted to steal a schooner from San Francisco Bay, which was the first step in their plan to seize a steamship and become pro-Confederate privateers. They were convicted, but Billings succeeded in saving them from the death penalty. In December 1863, Billings left San Francisco and settled in New York City.\nIn 1864, California changed from electing members of the United States House of Representatives to at-large seats to electing them by Congressional district. Even though he had moved away, his pro-Union record led Republican supporters of Billings to support him for the party's nomination in the 1st District, which included San Francisco. Donald C. McRuer was able to obtain the nomination, and went on to win the seat. Later in 1864, California Republicans wrote to President Abraham Lincoln and suggested the state was entitled to be represented in Lincoln's cabinet because California had supported Lincoln's reelection. They recommended Billings for an appointment and implied that Secretary of the Interior would be a suitable position. After Lincoln's assassination, California Republicans urged his successor Andrew Johnson to make the appointment. Among other complications, Billings suffered from an extended illness that prevented him from advocating on his own behalf, and he was not nominated.\nReturn to Vermont.\nIn 1864, Billings left New York City and returned to Woodstock, where he practiced law and resumed his business interests. In late 1865, friends of Billings proposed him as a candidate for the United States Senate from California, but the nomination went to Cornelius Cole, who went on to win the seat. In 1868, Billings was an original incorporator of the New England Telegraph Company, which was chartered by the state to construct a telegraph line connecting northern and southern Vermont, and connecting Vermont to adjacent states. In 1869, he purchased George Perkins Marsh's former estate. Billings had read Marsh's pioneering volume on ecology called \"Man and Nature\", and set about to put into practice his theories on conservation. Billings and his heirs purchased many failing farms and reforested much of the surrounding hillsides. This eventually led to creation of the Marsh-Billings-Rockefeller National Historical Park, which oversees and interprets what is probably the oldest managed forest in the United States. In addition, Billings' early conservation efforts led to creation of the Billings Farm and Museum, an important resource for learning about Vermont's agricultural history.\nWhile residing in Woodstock, Billings maintained a home in New York City so he could tend to his business interests. These included chairman of the executive committee for a corporation that planned to build a cross-isthmus canal in Nicaragua, and member of the board of directors of the Delaware and Hudson Canal Company. His additional directorships included several New England regional railroads, the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, American Exchange Bank, and the Manhattan Life Insurance Company. In 1869, he was elected president of the Woodstock National Bank. In 1871, he was elected a director of the National Life Insurance Company.\nBillings was also involved in civic and charitable activities, including serving on the University of Vermont's board of trustees from 1867 to 1873. Also in 1869, Billings was one of two prominent Vermonters who paid the expenses for two Vermont schoolteachers, enabling them to provide instruction in southern states for former slaves as part of the post-Civil War Reconstruction. In 1870, Billings was elected president of the Vermont Bible Society. In 1871, he was chosen for the presidency of the Windsor County Agricultural Society. Billings also advocated for the creation of the Vermont Veterans' Home to care for former Civil War soldiers. When the Vermont General Assembly passed a bill incorporating the home in 1884, Billings was selected as an original member of its board of trustees.\nNorthern Pacific Railway.\nIn 1869, Billings purchased from Hiram Walbridge a one-twelfth interest in the Northern Pacific Railway. He served on the board of directors beginning in 1870. Construction began in 1870, with the NP planned to run from Brainerd, Minnesota to Seattle, Washington.\nBillings became the largest landholder in the area that became Billings, Montana, which was named for him. His Montana business interests expanded to include banks, mines, ranches, and local railroads that connected to the Northern Pacific. Billings also played a significant role in promoting the conservation of the area that became Yellowstone National Park, a site which was near the route of the Northern Pacific.\nAs chairman of the NP's land committee, Billings was credited with overseeing development and execution of plans for using the Northern Pacific to transport white settlers to Minnesota and the Dakota Territory. When Jay Cooke &amp; Company, which was responsible for the sale of NP stock, failed in the Panic of 1873, Billings worked to rescue the railway and succeeded in saving it after bankruptcy. As a result of his efforts, after the panic began to abate, the Northern Pacific was able to restart construction. In 1879, Billings became the company's president. He served until 1881, when Henry Villard, proponent of an alternate route to the Pacific coast, purchased a controlling interest in the Northern Pacific. Billings left the company's presidency while remaining on the board of directors, and he was present for the ceremony in Montana that commemorated the end of construction in 1883.\nPolitics.\nBillings maintained an interest in Republican politics. In early 1868, a group of his friends in California attempted to mount a campaign to obtain the party's vice presidential nomination for Billings, but this effort proved unsuccessful. In November 1868, he made a well received speech at a party campaign rally in Barnard, Vermont. Billings was mentioned as a candidate for governor in 1869, but disclaimed any interest. His name was again prominently mentioned in 1870, but Billings deferred to John Wolcott Stewart, who won the nomination and the general election.\nIn 1872 Billings was a candidate for the Republican nomination for Governor of Vermont. The Republican nomination was then tantamount to election, and Billings was president of the state Republican convention and had a large group of delegates pledged to him. Governor Stewart also had a strong following, but his opponents argued that re-nominating him would violate the party's \"Mountain Rule\", which prior to Stewart's election to a two-year term had limited governors to two one-year terms. Delegates decided that the Mountain Rule would limit Stewart and his successors to one two-year term, and the Billings and Stewart delegates compromised on the governorship by nominating Julius Converse even though he was not an active candidate.\nIn 1876, Billings was again proposed as a candidate for the governorship, and again disclaimed any interest. Later that year, he took part in the Fifth Avenue Conference, a meeting organized by Carl Schurz for Republicans opposed to the perceived corruption of the Ulysses S. Grant administration and in favor of progressive measures including civil service reform. When the party nominated presidential and vice presidential candidates not connected to Grant, Rutherford B. Hayes and William A. Wheeler, Billings publicly expressed satisfaction with the ticket, though illness prevented him from actively campaigning for it.\nIn 1880, Billings was a delegate to the Republican National Convention, and made the nominating speech for presidential candidate George F. Edmunds, a U.S. Senator from Vermont, but the nomination went to James A. Garfield. Billings was a delegate again in 1884, and again supported Edmunds for president, but the nomination eventually went to James G. Blaine.\nDeath and burial.\nIn December 1889, Billings suffered a stroke that left him partially paralyzed. His health rapidly declined, and Billings died in Woodstock on September 30, 1890. Among the prominent attendees at his funeral were Torrey E. Wales, George Grenville Benedict, Percival W. Clement, William Wells, and Charles A. Prouty. The bearers included James Barrett and Oliver P. Chandler. Billings was buried at River Street Cemetery in Woodstock.\nFamily.\nIn 1862, Billings married Julia Parmly (December 3, 1835 - February 17, 1914), the daughter of Dr. Eleazer Parmly, a prominent New York City oral surgeon. They were the parents of seven children:\nHe was the grandfather of Mary French Rockefeller, wife of Laurance Rockefeller.\nBillings was the brother of Franklin Noble Billings. He was the uncle of Governor Franklin S. Billings and grand-uncle of Judge Franklin S. Billings Jr.\nPhilanthropy.\nBillings provided $40,000 to construct a chapel for the Congregational Church of Woodstock. Although he never owned a home in Billings, Montana, a railroad town established in 1882 and named after him, his wife provided the money to build its First Congregational Church. Frederick Billings endowed the Billings Library, completed in 1885 for the University of Vermont, and purchased the George Perkins Marsh collection of 12,000 volumes for it.\nAdditional Billings gifts included $50,000 to endow a professorship at Amherst College in memory of his son Parmly, who was an Amherst graduate. He also donated $50,000 to Dwight Lyman Moody's Mount Hermon School for Boys in memory of his son Ehrick. Billings also donated money to Whitman College to enable the construction of the college's Billings Hall as a memorial to Ehrick and Parmly Billings. In 1908, Julia Billings provided an endowment which enabled creation of Whitman's Frederick Billings Professorship of Biblical Literature.\nBillings' son Frederick Jr. provided a donation to Billings, Montana which financed construction of the Parmly Billings Memorial Library. Billings' daughter Elizabeth later provided additional funding, which was used to complete an addition to the original library."}
{"id": "709077", "revid": "29884708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709077", "title": "Signal fire", "text": "Signal fire can refer to:"}
{"id": "709078", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709078", "title": "Wayward Angel", "text": "Wayward Angel is the third studio album by Australian singer Kasey Chambers, released by Essence Records in Australia on 31 May 2004. Chambers wrote most of the album, three songs co-written by her then husband Corey Hopper and her brother Nash Chambers produced the album \u2013 who had previously produced her first two solo albums. The album differs from her previous two because Chambers became a mother and she states it is the \"most life changing things that you go through\" and she did not feel any pressure recording the album. It debuted on the Australian ARIA Albums Chart at number-one making it Chambers second number-one album but the sales did not match up to her previous album \"Barricades &amp; Brickwalls\" (2001) which was certified seven times platinum by ARIA.\nThe singles released from the album gave Chambers minor success in Australia. \"Hollywood\" was the first single released and became Chambers fifth top forty hit in Australia. \"Pony\" was released at the start of 2005 and became Chambers third top ten single in Australia. The last single released was \"Saturated\" and was a minor hit peaking in the top one hundred. The album saw Chambers nominated for four ARIA Awards including Best Cover Art, Album of the Year, Best Country Album and Best Female Artist in 2004.\nWriting and content.\nThe album saw Chambers co-write with her then husband Corey Hopper. These tracks include \"Follow You Home\", \"Guilty as Sin\" and \"More Than Ordinary?\" about a rejected lover. She states \"It was good fun writing with him [Hopper] because I don't normally co-write. I have tried to do it in the past. I've done a little bit of songwriting with my dad and one of my mates. I found it a lot more comfortable writing with someone I know really well. You are pouring your heart out and giving them your deepest darkest secret and feelings. It is hard to sit down with a total stranger and do that. None of the songs I wrote with Corey were planned moments. We just sat down and they feel out.\" Chambers recorded seventeen songs for the album and only fourteen made it onto the album Since most of her favourite albums contained twelve tracks she wanted that many tracks on the album but then realised she could not part with any of them.\nThe title track \"Wayward Angel\" was written about Chambers son Talon Jordi and states the song's meaning is she will not always be perfect but she will always be there for him. The song \"Paper Aeroplane\" was about a man losing his wife to cancer, she states \"I was watching television one night and there was an interview with an old man who had lost his wife to cancer. It was just a really beautiful story in the way he told it and remembered her. It was just moving enough for me to sit down and write that song.\" The first track \"Pony\" features baritone guitar by Steuart Smith who has also worked with the Eagles and Shawn Colvin.\nReception.\nThe album debuted at number-one on the Australian ARIA Albums Chart on 7 June 2004 with sales of 25,885 copies, knocking \"Under My Skin\" by Avril Lavigne off the top spot. It was certified platinum by ARIA on its first week and also topped the Australian Country Chart, knocking her previous album off number-one. The album went to spend five weeks at number-one being knocked off to number five by \"For All You've Done\" by Hillsong Church and it spent thirty-six weeks in the top fifty, re-entering five times. \"Wayward Angel\" spent fifty-four weeks in the albums top one hundred, certified triple platinum by ARIA, was the twentieth highest selling album in Australia for 2004 and the eighty-second highest selling album in Australia for 2005. The album failed to chart on the \"Billboard\" 200 but peaked at number thirty-one of the Top Country Albums spending eight weeks in the charts.\nAllMusic stated that Chambers \"manages the not-unremarkable accomplishment of splitting the difference between Emmylou Harris's crystalline purity and Lucinda Williams's rough-hewn emotional honesty\". They also state that her \"songwriting is no less remarkable, and connects in much the same way, chronicling matters of the heart and soul in a manner that achieves a genuine and unaffected beauty with just a dash of the truthful messiness that comes with being human\".\nAccolades.\nThe album and its tracks received four ARIA Award nominations. All of the ARIA Awards were at the 2004 awards:\nThe album and its tracks received two APRA Award nominations. All of the APRA Awards were at the 2005 awards:"}
{"id": "709079", "revid": "26074453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709079", "title": "Mahmud Shah", "text": "Mahmud Shah may refer to:"}
{"id": "709080", "revid": "41195652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709080", "title": "Book of Atrus", "text": ""}
{"id": "709081", "revid": "18178978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709081", "title": "Fielder railway station", "text": "Fielder railway station is situated on the Puffing Billy Railway in Australia.\nIt opened as a Stopping Place on Monday 10 September 1928, as part of the Gembrook railway line. It was originally an unnamed platform, with time tables noting a station at . In 1929, local Harry Watson constructed a Mallee shed and unofficially named it Ancaster after his home town in Lincolnshire, England, but this was quickly changed by some children to Laura, who was a young local girl. The Victorian Railways officially named it Fielder from Tuesday 5 February 1929, after a nearby resident. It was planned to name the station after the two local residents Cullen and Fielder and combinations of the two names were suggested, however Fielder was the name finally chosen. It remained nothing more than a Mallee shed with small office and a name board for the rest of its operating life.\nIt was closed with the line on 30 April 1954 and the Mallee shed was sold to US Buslines for unknown use. After closure, the site fell into disrepair, and by the 1990s, little trace of Fielder remained. However, by that time, efforts were being made to extend the railway from Lakeside through to Gembrook, which would complete the entire length of the original line. In 1996, a group of volunteers led by Richard Schurmann in collaboration with the descendants of the Fielder family rebuilt the platform and waiting shed, which was officially re-opened on Saturday 19 April 1997 in preparation for the extension of the line which re-opened in 1998.\nOn 18 November 2012 a plaque was unveiled on the station shed in tribute to the Fielder Family.\nTrains do not normally stop at Fielder."}
{"id": "709082", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709082", "title": "Photovoltaic cell", "text": ""}
{"id": "709083", "revid": "81090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709083", "title": "Fire signals", "text": ""}
{"id": "709084", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709084", "title": "Petals", "text": ""}
{"id": "709085", "revid": "30462305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709085", "title": "Gembrook railway station", "text": "Gembrook railway station is located in the township of Gembrook in Victoria, Australia, east of Melbourne. It was opened with the line on 18 December 1900 and closed on 30 April 1954.\nThe line was rebuilt to the Gembrook terminus in 1998 by the Puffing Billy Railway. Heritage steam trains operated by Puffing Billy now stop at a new \"Town\" platform located on the site of a former siding. A \"heritage\" station has also been constructed on the site of the original Gembrook station. It has a layout very similar to that of the station in the 1920s, with only minor alterations to meet modern requirements."}
{"id": "709087", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709087", "title": "Gembrook Town railway station, Melbourne", "text": ""}
{"id": "709091", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709091", "title": "Tea and Sympathy (play)", "text": "Tea and Sympathy is a 1953 stage play in three acts by Robert Anderson about a male private school student, Tom Lee, who faces accusations of homosexuality. A woman, Laura, who is married to an instructor, opposes the students' shaming of Lee and romantically pursues him so he can prove that he has a masculine character. The title refers to what someone in Laura's position was supposed to offer a boy such as Tom.\nEverett Evans of the \"Houston Chronicle\" called it \"one of the first plays to tackle the then-taboo topic of sexual orientation and related prejudice.\" Evans stated that the play's final line, \"Years from now, when you speak of this, and you will, be kind\", is \"one of the most quoted curtain lines in stage history\".\nProductions.\nBroadway.\nThe play premiered on Broadway at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre on September 30, 1953, in a production by The Playwrights' Company, directed by Elia Kazan with scenic and lighting design by Jo Mielziner. The play starred Deborah Kerr, Leif Erickson, and John Kerr, who won a Tony Award for his portrayal of Tom Lee. It transferred to the Longacre Theatre, and later the 48th Street Theatre. The play closed on June 18, 1955, after 712 performances. In the summer of 1954, Joan Fontaine and Anthony Perkins replaced Deborah Kerr and John Kerr in their respective roles.\nLondon.\nThe play was first performed in London at the Comedy Theatre (Harold Pinter Theatre since 2011), under membership conditions, because the Lord Chamberlain had imposed an outright ban. The New Watergate Club was founded in 1956 for the staging of plays previously suppressed under the Theatres Act 1843. By these means, the theatre premiered \"Tea and Sympathy\" in the United Kingdom.\nParis.\nA French adaptation was presented in 1956 at the Th\u00e9\u00e2tre de Paris, Paris, starring Ingrid Bergman and Jean-Loup Phillipe and directed by Jean Mercure.\nOff-Broadway.\nThe play was presented Off-Broadway by the Keen Company at the Clurman Theater, from March 6, 2007, to April 14, 2007. Directed by Jonathan Silverstein, the cast featured Heidi Armbruster (Laura Reynolds), Dan McCabe (Tom Lee) and Craig Mathers (Bill Reynolds).\nAdaptations.\nThe play was adapted into a 1956 film. In 1956, Bob Thomas of the Associated Press wrote that \"many said [the play] could never be made into a movie.\"\nReception.\nIn his New York Times review of the original 1953 production, Brooks Atkinson called it an \"uncommonly discerning study of character\" and \"the first big popular success of the season\".\nIn 2013, Everett Evans of the \"Houston Chronicle\" wrote that \"Sixty years on, this once controversial play is a little dated but a lot more timely; its potent moments outweigh its imperfections. When you speak of \"Tea and Sympathy\", be kind.\""}
{"id": "709092", "revid": "7611264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709092", "title": "Floral symmetry", "text": "Floral symmetry describes whether, and how, a flower, in particular its perianth, can be divided into two or more identical or mirror-image parts.\nUncommonly, flowers may have no axis of symmetry at all, typically because their parts are spirally arranged.\nActinomorphic.\nMost flowers are actinomorphic (\"star shaped\", \"radial\"), meaning they can be divided into three or more identical sectors which are related to each other by rotation about the center of the flower. Typically, each sector might contain one tepal or one petal and one sepal and so on. It may or may not be possible to divide the flower into symmetrical halves by the same number of longitudinal planes passing through the axis: oleander is an example of a flower without such mirror planes. Actinomorphic flowers are also called radially symmetrical or regular flowers. Other examples of actinomorphic flowers are the lily (\"Lilium\", Liliaceae) and the buttercup (\"Ranunculus\", Ranunculaceae).\nZygomorphic.\nZygomorphic (\"yoke shaped\", \"bilateral\" \u2013 from the Greek \u03b6\u03c5\u03b3\u03cc\u03bd, \"zygon\", yoke, and \u03bc\u03bf\u03c1\u03c6\u03ae, \"morphe\", shape) flowers can be divided by only a single plane into two mirror-image halves, much like a yoke or a person's face. Examples are orchids and the flowers of most members of the Lamiales (e.g., Scrophulariaceae and Gesneriaceae). Some authors prefer the term monosymmetry or bilateral symmetry. The asymmetry allows pollen to be deposited in specific locations on pollinating insects and this specificity can result in evolution of new species.\nGlobally and within individual networks, zygomorphic flowers are a minority. Plants with zygomorphic flowers have smaller number of visitor species compared to those with actinomorphic flowers. Sub-networks of plants with zygomorphic flowers share greater connectance, greater asymmetry and lower coextinction robustness for both the plants and the visitor species. Plant taxa with zygomorphic flowers can have a greater risk of extinction due to pollinator decline.\nAsymmetry.\nA few plant species have flowers lacking any symmetry, and therefore having a \"handedness\". Examples: \"Valeriana officinalis\" and \"Canna indica\".\nDifferences.\nActinomorphic flowers are a basal angiosperm character; zygomorphic flowers are a derived character that has evolved many times.\nSome familiar and seemingly actinomorphic so-called flowers, such as those of daisies and dandelions (Asteraceae), and most species of \"Protea\", are actually clusters of tiny (not necessarily actinomorphic) flowers arranged into a roughly radially symmetric inflorescence of the form known as a head, capitulum, or pseudanthium.\nPeloria.\nPeloria or a peloric flower is the aberration in which a plant that normally produces zygomorphic flowers produces actinomorphic flowers instead. This aberration can be developmental, or it can have a genetic basis: the CYCLOIDEA gene controls floral symmetry. Peloric \"Antirrhinum\" plants have been produced by knocking out this gene. Many modern cultivars of \"Sinningia speciosa\" (\"gloxinia\") have been bred to have peloric flowers as they are larger and showier than the normally zygomorphic flowers of this species.\nCharles Darwin explored peloria in \"Antirrhinum\" (snapdragon) while researching the inheritance of floral characteristics for his \"The Variation of Animals and Plants Under Domestication\". Later research, using \"Digitalis purpurea\", showed that his results were largely in line with Mendelian theory."}
{"id": "709093", "revid": "11521989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709093", "title": "Moorooduc railway station", "text": "Moorooduc railway station is located on Two Bays Road, Mount Eliza, Victoria, Australia. It was originally a stop on the Mornington railway line and was opened in September 1889. It was closed with the line in June 1981.\nThe station has one side platform and is now the base for the Mornington Tourist Railway. It is the eastern terminus of the railway's heritage train services. There are five other tracks, used for locomotives to run-around trains, maintenance, storage and repairs.\nFacilities.\nMoorooduc station has a heritage signal box moved from the defunct Somerton Station. Although it is not used, it is open for free inspection.\nThe footbridge from the now-closed Fitzroy Station has been re-erected at the station.\nA toilet block was installed in 2013. There is a carriage dock which is mainly used for renovations and maintenance.\nAdjacent to the station is the Mount Eliza Regional Park which incorporates the Moorooduc Quarry Flora and Fauna Reserve.\nFuture plans.\nThe Mornington Railway Preservation Society, operators of the Mornington Tourist Railway, has plans to restore the former line that continues over the Moorooduc Highway to Baxter station on the Stony Point railway line. A few kilometres down the line is the proposed Sumner Road station, but the future of the project depends on obtaining the necessary funding."}
{"id": "709095", "revid": "22505827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709095", "title": "Tanti Park railway station", "text": "Tanti Park railway station is located on Bungower Road, Mornington, Victoria, Australia. It was originally a stop on the Mornington railway line. It is now the middle stop of three served by the Mornington Tourist Railway, and comprises a side platform and disused ticket office. \nTanti Park opened on 18 June 1936 as Mornington Racecourse Platform. It was opened for general traffic on 12 April 1969, and was renamed Tanti Park on 19 December of that year.\nIn 1977, flashing lights and bells were provided at the Bungower Road level crossing, located at the up end of the platform.\nIn the same year, a short subsidiary platform was constructed on the other side of the Bungower Road level crossing. That allowed passengers to board and alight from up rail motor services after they had passed the level crossing, so that the crossing warning lights did not operate unnecessarily while up trains were stopped at the main platform.\nOn 15 June 1981, Tanti Park station was closed, along with the whole Mornington railway line. The station was reactivated in 1999 when the Mornington Railway Preservation Society began its heritage operation, running trains on part of the former Mornington line, from Moorooduc to its new Mornington station.\nSince mid-2009, the station has been unstaffed, but remains a pick-up and drop-off point for passengers travelling on the tourist railway."}
{"id": "709096", "revid": "7764849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709096", "title": "Signal tower", "text": "Signal tower may refer to:"}
{"id": "709097", "revid": "19166843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709097", "title": "Metroad 1", "text": ""}
{"id": "709101", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709101", "title": "Mornington railway station", "text": "Mornington railway station was located on Railway Grove, Mornington, Victoria, Australia. Its first train arrived on 10 September 1889 and the last one departed on 20 May 1981. In 1989, the old station site was sold by the state government and had a shopping centre built on the site. On 19 September 2004, a plaque was unveiled adjacent to the site to commemorate 150 years of rail in Victoria.\nMornington tourist station.\nA new Mornington station was built for tourist services and is located on the corner of Yuilles &amp; Watt Road. It is the new site of the terminus for the Mornington Railway line. The Mornington Tourist Railway has run services from there since 21 October 1997."}
{"id": "709102", "revid": "20836525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709102", "title": "W-boson", "text": ""}
{"id": "709103", "revid": "99342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709103", "title": "Yarra Glen railway station", "text": "Yarra Glen is the city-end terminus of the Yarra Valley Railway, which operates over part of the former Healesville railway line.\nHistory.\nThe first station on the site was built in 1888\u20131889 when the railway line was extended from Lilydale to Healesville. The settlement had been previously named Burgoyne, but when the railway was extended, the decision was made to rename it Yarra Glen. Though Yarra Glen was a small settlement, its station was often used for supplying Melbourne with produce from nearby farms.\nThe station closed along with the Healesville line in 1980. It sat idle for some years, and suffered some major fire damage to the roof. However, the station is being restored by the Yarra Valley Railway, which is based at Healesville railway station. The railway is currently open on weekends and public holidays, offering return trips from Healesville through the tunnel near Tarrawarra and back, using Walker railmotor RM22.\nThe Black Saturday bushfires on 7 February 2009 burnt a good deal of grassland and forest in the Yarra Valley. The fire also caused the destruction of 13 timber trestle bridges between Yarra Glen Station and Healesville. Bridges of varying lengths were lost, the main ones being those on the Yarra River flats, including a long one over the river itself. The bridges, between Yarra Glen and Yering, are visible from the Melba Highway when approaching Yarra Glen. Six other bridges were destroyed, which were not part of the Yarra Valley Railway, and sleepers were burnt out over approx 2\u00a0km, also outside the running section of the railway. Until the 13 bridges and associated rail track can be restored to operating condition, Yarra Glen station is orphaned from the remaining part of the Yarra Valley Railway. Rebuilding progressed quickly during 2015, to the point where the reconstructed bridges, this time in concrete and steel, are clearly visible from the road close by.\nYarra Glen Station is being rebuilt from the ground up by dedicated volunteers, including the Yarra Glen Men's Shed, and the finished building will closely match its original design. It was scheduled to be completed in 2017. Work has since been completed on this project.\nWith the Black Saturday bushfires, it destroyed the timber bridges between Yarra Glen and Coldstream, the possible future reinstatement of railway services to Lilydale has been made highly improbable, because it would require a considerable amount of money and time."}
{"id": "709105", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709105", "title": "Tarrawarra railway station", "text": "Tarrawarra was a station on the former Healesville line between Yarra Glen and Healesville stations, in Victoria, Australia. The station opened in 1889 and closed along with the line in December 1980. In the 1970s, timetables showed that the station was a flag stop because of the small number of passengers using the station.\nHistory.\nThe section of track through the location of the station is now maintained by the Yarra Valley Railway, which is based at Healesville. A tourist service operates on weekends, and school and public holidays, using a restored Walker railmotor, to the rear of the Tarrawarra Estate Winery, just through the tunnel about 3\u00a0km east of the former station. \nTarrawarra station is expected to become a crossing loop when the station reopens as part of the restoration of the line to Yarra Glen. Work has commenced to replace the wooden bridges between the station and Yarra Glen, which were burned in the Black Saturday bushfires in 2009. Currently the Tarrawarra yard is being used as a major staging area for the restoration project."}
{"id": "709106", "revid": "1283660798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709106", "title": "Healesville railway station", "text": "Healesville is a railway station in Victoria, Australia. Formerly the terminus of the Healesville railway line, it is currently the principal station of the heritage Yarra Valley Railway. A temporary station was built on the site in 1888\u20131889 when the railway line was extended from Lilydale to Healesville. The current station was built in 1903 and is now listed with Heritage Victoria.\nHistory.\nThe station closed along with the Healesville line in 1980. It sat idle for some years, but has now been restored as part of the Yarra Valley Railway, which is based out of Healesville. It currently opens on weekends, Wednesdays of school holidays, and public holidays. Walker railmotor, RM22, runs approximately 4.5\u00a0km to near the TarraWarra Estate winery, after travelling through an historic tunnel.\nThe Yarra Valley Railway aims to restore the line from Healesville to Yarra Glen railway station. The Black Saturday bushfires on 7 February 2009 destroyed 13 timber trestle bridges between Healesville and Yarra Glen stations, which was a major setback in doing that.\nBoom gates were installed at the Healesville-Kinglake Road level crossing in September 2022, along with the reconstruction of the level crossing.\nHealesville station is now served by the route 685 bus, which runs between Lilydale and Healesville, and is operated by McKenzie's Tourist Services, under contract to Public Transport Victoria.\nFilm and TV.\nHealesville railway station served as the location for the town's station, in the long-running ABC TV serial \"Bellbird\". The Internet Movie Database lists the station as a filming location for the Australian short film \"Harry's War\" (1999). The station was used in the railway station scene in John D. Lamond's 1979 \"Ozploitation\" film, \"Felicity\"."}
{"id": "709107", "revid": "59002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709107", "title": "Ship flags", "text": ""}
{"id": "709112", "revid": "12060030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709112", "title": "Riksbank", "text": ""}
{"id": "709116", "revid": "51242093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709116", "title": "Singular value", "text": "In mathematics, in particular functional analysis, the singular values of a compact operator formula_1 acting between Hilbert spaces formula_2 and formula_3, are the square roots of the (necessarily non-negative) eigenvalues of the self-adjoint operator formula_4 (where formula_5 denotes the adjoint of formula_6).\nThe singular values are non-negative real numbers, usually listed in decreasing order (\"\u03c3\"1(\"T\"), \"\u03c3\"2(\"T\"), \u2026). The largest singular value \"\u03c3\"1(\"T\") is equal to the operator norm of \"T\" (see Min-max theorem).\nIf \"T\" acts on Euclidean space formula_7, there is a simple geometric interpretation for the singular values: Consider the image by formula_6 of the unit sphere; this is an ellipsoid, and the lengths of its semi-axes are the singular values of formula_6 (the figure provides an example in formula_10).\nThe singular values are the absolute values of the eigenvalues of a normal matrix \"A\", because the spectral theorem can be applied to obtain unitary diagonalization of formula_11 as formula_12. Therefore, \nMost norms on Hilbert space operators studied are defined using singular values. For example, the Ky Fan-\"k\"-norm is the sum of first \"k\" singular values, the trace norm is the sum of all singular values, and the Schatten norm is the \"p\"th root of the sum of the \"p\"th powers of the singular values. Note that each norm is defined only on a special class of operators, hence singular values can be useful in classifying different operators.\nIn the finite-dimensional case, a matrix can always be decomposed in the form formula_13, where formula_14 and formula_15 are unitary matrices and formula_16 is a rectangular diagonal matrix with the singular values lying on the diagonal. This is the singular value decomposition.\nBasic properties.\nFor formula_17, and formula_18.\nMin-max theorem for singular values. Here formula_19 is a subspace of formula_20 of dimension formula_21.\nMatrix transpose and conjugate do not alter singular values.\nFor any unitary formula_24\nRelation to eigenvalues:\nRelation to trace:\nIf formula_28 has full rank, the product of singular values is formula_29.\nIf formula_30 has full rank, the product of singular values is formula_31.\nIf formula_11 is square and has full rank, the product of singular values is formula_33.\nIf formula_11 is normal, then formula_35, that is, its singular values are the absolute values of its eigenvalues.\nFor a generic rectangular matrix formula_11, let formula_37 be its augmented matrix. It has eigenvalues formula_38 (where formula_39 are the singular values of formula_40) and the remaining eigenvalues are zero. Let formula_41 be the singular value decomposition, then the eigenvectors of formula_42 are formula_43 for formula_44\nThe smallest singular value.\nThe smallest singular value of a matrix \"A\" is \"\u03c3\"n(\"A\"). It has the following properties for a non-singular matrix A:\nIntuitively, if \"\u03c3\"n(\"A\") is small, then the rows of A are \"almost\" linearly dependent. If it is \"\u03c3\"n(\"A\") = 0, then the rows of A are linearly dependent and A is not invertible.\nInequalities about singular values.\nSee also.\nSingular values of sub-matrices.\nFor formula_45\nSingular values of \"A\" + \"B\".\nFor formula_56\nSingular values of \"AB\".\nFor formula_59\nFor formula_56\nformula_63\nSingular values and eigenvalues.\nFor formula_64.\nHistory.\nThis concept was introduced by Erhard Schmidt in 1907. Schmidt called singular values \"eigenvalues\" at that time. The name \"singular value\" was first quoted by Smithies in 1937. In 1957, Allahverdiev proved the following characterization of the \"n\"th singular number: \nThis formulation made it possible to extend the notion of singular values to operators in Banach space. \nNote that there is a more general concept of \"s-numbers\", which also includes Gelfand and Kolmogorov width."}
{"id": "709117", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709117", "title": "Fossil energy", "text": ""}
{"id": "709118", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709118", "title": "Sedums", "text": ""}
{"id": "709120", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709120", "title": "RealMYST (game)", "text": ""}
{"id": "709121", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709121", "title": "Coverdell ESA", "text": ""}
{"id": "709122", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709122", "title": "Normed linear space", "text": ""}
{"id": "709124", "revid": "759114620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709124", "title": "Oghma", "text": "Oghma may refer to:"}
{"id": "709125", "revid": "46673090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709125", "title": "Bergenia", "text": "Bergenia (elephant-eared saxifrage, elephant's ears) is a genus of ten species of flowering plants in the family Saxifragaceae, native to central Asia, from Afghanistan to China and the Himalayan region.\nDescription.\nThey are clump-forming, rhizomatous, evergreen perennials with a spirally arranged rosette of leaves 6\u201335\u00a0cm long and 4\u201315\u00a0cm broad, and pink flowers produced in a cyme. The leaves are large, leathery, ovate or cordate, and often have wavy or saw-toothed edges. For most of the year, the leaves have a glossy green colour, but in cooler climates, they turn red or bronze in the fall. The flowers grow on a stem similar in colour to a rhubarb stalk and most varieties have cone-shaped flowers in varying shades of pink. These can range from almost white to ruby red and purple.\nThe common names for \"Bergenia\" are pigsqueak (due to the sound produced when two leaves are rubbed together), elephant's ears (due to the shape of the leaves) and large rockfoil.\n\"Bergenia\" is closely related to \"Mukdenia\", \"Oresitrophe\", \"Astilboides\" and \"Rodgersia\".\nThe creator of the taxonomic genus name, Conrad Moench, honoured the German botanist and physician Karl August von Bergen by coining the name \"Bergenia\" in 1794.\nSpecies.\n10 species are accepted.\nCultivation.\n\"Bergenia\" are hardy plants that can grow in climates with extreme temperature ranges from about to . They prefer sun but will grow in shady areas as well. Plants can grow to about tall and wide. They do well in most soils, but moist, humus-rich soil is preferable. Exposure and dry soils tend to stunt growth, but can enhance the winter leaf colours. In areas with cold, strong winter winds, protection from the wind may be required. They are propagated by division or rooted rhizome sections.\n\"Bergenia crassifolia\", \"Bergenia cordifolia\", and various hybrids are often grown in gardens, with several cultivars selected.\nThe following cultivars have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit:-\nPests and diseases.\nBergenia are robust plants and generally free of problems, although vine weevil adults readily eat the edges of the leaves, resulting in an indented, 'notched' outline which can detract from the appearance of the plant.\nUses.\nBergenin, C-glycoside of 4-O-methyl gallic acid, and its O-demethylated derivative norbergenin, are chemical compounds and drugs of Ayurveda, commonly known as Paashaanbhed. They can be isolated from \"Bergenia ciliata\" and \"Bergenia ligulata\" and from rhizomes of \"Bergenia stracheyi\". It shows a potent immunomodulatory effect."}
{"id": "709126", "revid": "43140572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709126", "title": "Sekou Sundiata", "text": "Sekou Sundiata (August 22, 1948 \u2013 July 18, 2007) was an African-American poet and performer, as well as a teacher at The New School in New York City. His students include musicians Ani DiFranco and Mike Doughty. His plays include \"The Circle Unbroken is a Hard Bop\", \"The Mystery of Love\", \"Udu\", and \"The 51st Dream State\". He also released several albums, including \"Longstoryshort\" and \"The Blue Oneness of Dreams\". The \"Blue Oneness of Dreams\" was nominated for a Grammy Award. In 2000 Sundiata received the Creative Capital Performing Arts Award.\nHis subjects included Jimi Hendrix, Nelson Mandela, and reparations for slavery.\nSundiata was a Sundance Institute Screenwriting Fellow, a Columbia University Revson Fellow, a Master Artist-in-Residence at the Atlantic Center for the Arts in Florida, the first Writer-in-Residence at The New School university in New York, and a professor at Eugene Lang College. He was a featured poet on two occasions at the Geraldine R. Dodge Poetry Festival, most recently in 2006.\nEarly life and education.\nSekou Sundiata was born Robert Franklin Feaster in Harlem, New York, but changed his name in the late 1960s to honor his African heritage. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in English from the City College of New York in 1972, before successfully undertaking a master's degree in creative writing from the City University of New York.\nPerformance.\nIn 1977, Sundiata together with poets including Rashidah Ismaili, Sandra Maria Esteves, Akua Lezli Hope, Mervyn Taylor and others formed the Calabash Poets Workshop, regularly producing events.\nSundiata's works combined poetry, music and drama. His musical influences included jazz, blues, funk and Afro-Caribbean rhythms. He worked closely with Craig Harris on works such as \"Udu\", about slavery in modern Mauritania, and \"The Circle Unbroken is a Hard Bop\" about African Americans reaching adulthood in the 1960s.\nSundiata based his one-man show \"Blessing the Boats\" on experiences of heroin addiction (back in the 60s), a car crash and a kidney transplant from a friend. He toured the show around the United States and internationally. The impact of the show inspired members of the audience to volunteer to become organ donors.\nHis last work, \"the 51st (dream) state\", featured music, dance, video and poetry about the responses to the September 11, 2001 attacks. After a performance at the Melbourne Festival, the show was performed at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in November 2006.\nRecorded works.\nSundiata recorded a number of works. His first album, \"The Blue Oneness of Dreams\" (Mouth Almighty Records 1997) was nominated for a Grammy. He toured with Ani DiFranco on her Rhythm and News tour in 2001 and his \"longstoryshort\" album was released on DiFranco's Righteous Babe label.\nSundiata's work was featured on HBO's \"Def Poetry\" series and PBS's \"The Language of Life\".\nTeaching career.\nSundiata taught writing at The New School in New York City. DiFranco was one of his students and claimed at the time of his death that Sundiata \"taught me everything I know about poetry.\"\nMike Doughty also studied under Sundiata in DiFranco's class. He wrote \"Screenwriter's Blues\", which was a minor hit for his band Soul Coughing in the 1990s, while studying in Sundiata's class.\nAnother musician/poet who studied with Sundiata (at Eugene Lang College at The New School for Liberal Arts) was Spin Doctors' lead singer Chris Barron. In fact, it was Sekou that coined the name \"Spin Doctors\" for the newly formed band in 1988/89.\nDeath.\nSekou Sundiata died of heart failure at a hospital in Valhalla, New York on July 18, 2007. He had struggled with many life-threatening conditions throughout his life, including cancer, kidney failure, a kidney transplant, pneumonia, and a broken neck sustained in an auto accident."}
{"id": "709128", "revid": "24758205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709128", "title": "Force majeure", "text": "In contract law, force majeure ( ; ) is a common clause in contracts which essentially frees both parties from liability or obligation when an extraordinary event or circumstance beyond the control of the parties, such as a war, strike, riot, crime, epidemic, or sudden legal change prevents one or both parties from fulfilling their obligations under the contract. Force majeure often includes events described as acts of God, though such events remain legally distinct from the clause itself. In practice, most force majeure clauses do not entirely excuse a party's non-performance but suspend it for the duration of the force majeure.\nForce majeure is generally intended to include occurrences beyond the reasonable control of a party, and therefore would \"not\" cover:\nUnder international law, it refers to an irresistible force or unforeseen event beyond the control of a state, making it materially impossible to fulfill an international obligation. Accordingly, it is related to the concept of a state of emergency.\nForce majeure in any given situation is controlled by the law governing the contract, rather than general concepts of force majeure. Contracts often specify what constitutes force majeure via a clause in the agreement. So, the liability is decided per contract and neither by statute nor by principles of general law. The first step to assess whether\u2014and how\u2014force majeure applies to any particular contract is to ascertain the law of the country (state) which governs the contract.\nPurpose.\nTime-critical and other sensitive contracts may be drafted to limit the shield of this clause where a party does not take reasonable steps (or specific precautions) to prevent or limit the \"effects\" of the outside interference, either when they become likely or when they actually occur. A force majeure may work to excuse all or part of the obligations of one or both parties. For example, a strike might prevent timely delivery of goods, but not timely payment for the portion delivered.\nA force majeure may also be the overpowering force itself, which prevents the fulfillment of a contract. In that instance, it is actually the impossibility or impracticability defenses.\nIn the military, \"force majeure\" has a slightly different meaning. It refers to an event, either external or internal, that happens to a vessel or aircraft that allows it to enter normally restricted areas without penalty. An example would be the Hainan Island incident, where a U.S. Navy aircraft landed at a Chinese military airbase after a collision with a Chinese fighter in April 2001. Under the principle of force majeure, the aircraft was allowed to land without interference. Similarly, the 2023 Chinese balloon incident, in which a Chinese surveillance balloon was discovered in U.S. air space, the Chinese government stated that this \"was entirely an accident caused by force majeure\".\nThe importance of the force majeure clause in a contract, particularly one of any length in time, cannot be overstated as it relieves a party from an obligation under the contract (or suspends that obligation). What is permitted to be a force majeure event or circumstance can be the source of much controversy in the negotiation of a contract and a party should generally resist any attempt by the other party to include something that should, fundamentally, be at the risk of that other party. For example, in a coal-supply agreement, the mining company may seek to have \"geological risk\" included as a force majeure event; however, the mining company should be doing extensive exploration and analysis of its geological reserves and should not even be negotiating a coal-supply agreement if it cannot take the risk that there may be a geological limit to its coal supply from time to time. The outcome of that negotiation, of course, depends on the relative bargaining power of the parties and there will be cases where force majeure clauses can be used by a party effectively to escape liability for bad performance.\nBecause of the different interpretations of force majeure across legal systems, it is common for contracts to include specific definitions of force majeure, particularly at the international level. Some systems limit force majeure to an Act of God (such as floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, etc.) but exclude human or technical failures (such as acts of war, terrorist activities, labor disputes, or interruption or failure of electricity or communications systems). The advisory point is in drafting of contract make distinction between \"act of God\" and other shape of force majeure.\nAs a consequence, force majeure in areas prone to natural disaster requires a definition of the magnitude of the event for which force majeure could be considered as such in a contract. As an example, in a highly seismic area a contract could establish a technical definition of the amplitude of motion at the site, based for example on probability of occurrence studies. This parameter or parameters would later be monitored at the construction site (with a commonly agreed procedure). An earthquake could be a small shaking or damaging event. The occurrence of an earthquake does not imply the occurrence of damage or disruption. For small and moderate events it is reasonable to establish requirements for the contract processes; for large events it is not always feasible or economical to do so. Concepts such as 'damaging earthquake' in force majeure clauses do not help to clarify disruption, especially in areas where there are no other reference structures or most structures are not seismically safe.\nCommon law.\nHong Kong.\nWhen force majeure has not been provided for in the contract (or the relevant event does not fall within the scope of the force majeure clause), and a supervening event prevents performance, it will be a breach of contract. The law of frustration will be the sole remaining course available to the party in default to end the contract. If the failure to perform the contract deprives the innocent party of substantially the whole benefit of the contract it will be a repudiatory breach, entitling the innocent party to terminate the contract and claim damages for that repudiatory breach.\nEngland.\nAs interpreted by English courts, the phrase force majeure has a more extensive meaning than \"act of God\" or \"vis major.\" Judges have agreed that strikes and breakdowns of machinery, which though normally not included in \"vis major,\" are included in force majeure. (However, in the case of machinery breakdown, negligent lack of maintenance may negate claims of force majeure, as maintenance or its lack is within the owner's sphere of control.)\nThe term cannot, however, be extended to cover delays caused by bad weather, football matches, or a funeral: the English case of \"Matsoukis v. Priestman &amp; Co\" (1915) held that \"these are the usual incidents interrupting work, and the defendants, in making their contract, no doubt took them into account... The words 'force majeure' are not words which we generally find in an English contract. They are taken from the Code Napoleon, and they were inserted by this Romanian gentleman or by his advisers, who were no doubt familiar with their use on the Continent.\" In \"Hackney Borough Council v. Dore\" (1922) it was held that \"The expression means some physical or material restraint and does not include a reasonable fear or apprehension of such a restraint\".\nIndia.\nIn re \"Dharnrajmal Gobindram v. Shamji Kalidas\" [All India Reporter 1961 Supreme Court (of India) 1285], it was held that \"An analysis of ruling on the subject shows that reference to the expression is made where the intention is to save the defaulting party from the consequences of anything over which he had no control.\"\nEven if a force majeure clause covers the relevant supervening event, the party unable to perform will not have the benefit of the clause where performance merely become (1) more difficult, (2) more expensive, and/or (3) less profitable.\nUnited States.\nFor example, parties in the United States have used the COVID-19 pandemic as a force majeure in an attempt to escape contractual liability by applying the elements of an (1) unforeseeable event, (2) outside of the parties\u2019 control, that (3) renders performance impossible or impractical. Though force majeure events are generally thought to include natural events like tornadoes and often unforeseeable man-made events like labor strikes, the 2021\u20132023 Inflation Surge is also impacting force majeure provisions in leasing and other real estate contracts to include delays or excuses from performing contractual obligations due to the increased costs from rising inflation and rising interest rates. \nCivil law.\nFrance.\nFor a defendant to invoke in French law, the event proposed as force majeure must pass three tests:\nOther events that are candidates for force majeure in French law are hurricanes and earthquakes. Force majeure is a defense against liability and is applicable throughout French law. Force majeure and are distinct notions in French law.\nArgentina.\nIn Argentina, force majeure ( and ) is defined by the Civil Code of Argentina in Article 512, and regulated in Article 513. According to these articles, force majeure is defined by the following characteristics:\nIn Argentina, Act of God can be used in Civil Responsibility regarding contractual or noncontractual obligations.\nHybrid law systems.\nPhilippines.\nAs the oldest state with a size of over 300,000 sq km to integrate the two legal systems, the Philippines also has its own unique interpretation of force majeure events. Under the Civil Code in Article 1174,\nFortuitous events must not be caused by man but by nature. Therefore, economic crises are not considered as force majeure events that allows a debtor to be free of his obligation or debt. However such crises as an effect of wars such as World War II are considered as force majeure events as stated in \"Sagrada v. Nacoco\" (G.R. No. L-3756). The landmark case on this article and event is the case of \"Nakpil &amp; Sons v. CA\" (G.R. No. L-47851). In this case, the Philippine Bar Association (PBA) building was the only building destroyed on Arzobispo St., Intramuros, Manila during an earthquake in 1968. The PBA, through the Jose W. Diokno Law Office, led by Sen. Diokno himself, sued Nakpil &amp; Sons as well as the contractor of the building, United Construction Company, Inc., and won in the trial court. The case was merely reiterated and affirmed by the Court of Appeals. Finally in 1986 the case was decided with finality by the Supreme Court. The Court mentioned the four requisites, by breaking down Article 1174. These are still the requisites used in Philippine courts today. These requisites are:\nIn doing so, the Supreme Court ruled that there is no fortuitous event, after also observing certain problems in construction such as measurement deficiencies and poor foundations.\nUNIDROIT Principles.\nArticle 7.1.7 of the UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts provides for a form of force majeure similar, but not identical, to the common law and civil law concepts of the term: relief from performance is granted \"if that party proves that the non-performance was due to an impediment beyond its control and that it could not reasonably be expected to have taken the impediment into account at the time of the conclusion of the contract or to have avoided or overcome it or its consequences.\""}
{"id": "709129", "revid": "13517172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709129", "title": "A6 (Sydney)", "text": "The A6 is a route designation of a major metropolitan arterial route through suburban Sydney, linking Cumberland Highway at and Princes Highway at , via Lidcombe and Bankstown. This name covers a few consecutive roads and is widely known to most drivers, but the entire allocation is also known \u2013 and signposted \u2013 by the names of its constituent parts: Marsden Road, Stewart Street, Kissing Point Road, Silverwater Road, St Hilliers Road, Boorea Street, Olympic Drive, Joseph Street, Rookwood Road, Stacey Street, Fairford Road, Davies Road, Alfords Point Road, New Illawarra Road and Heathcote Road.\nRoute.\nThe A6 commences at the intersection of Cumberland Highway at Carlingford and heads in a southerly direction as Marsden Road as a two-lane, single carriageway road, before changing name to Stewart Street at Dundas Valley and heading west, widening to a four-lane, dual-carriageway road. It intersects with and changes name to Kissing Point Road, and then nearly immediately changing name again to Silverwater Road at Dundas and heads south, crossing over Victoria Road at an interchange in Ermington, crossing Parramatta River over Silverwater Bridge and widening to a six-lane, dual-carriageway just south of the river in Silverwater, meeting M4 Motorway at Auburn and then Great Western Highway shortly afterwards. It changes name to St Hilliers Road and continues southwest, then along Boorea Street heading east, then changes name again to Olympic Drive shortly afterwards and heads in a southerly direction to Lidcombe, changing name again to Joseph Street and Rookwood Road through Potts Hill, before changing name again to Stacey Street and narrowing to a four-lane, dual-carriageway road just before it meets Hume Highway at Chullora. It continues south, changing name to Fairford Road at Punchbowl, crossing over Canterbury Road at an interchange and then meeting M5 South Western Motorway shortly afterwards at Padstow, widening to a six-lane, dual-carriageway road. It changes name to Davies Road soon after, then again to Alfords Point Road at Padstow Heights, and crosses Georges River, narrowing to a four-lane, single-carriageway road at Alfords Point, and meets Old Illawarra Road at Menai, changing name to New Illawarra Road. It intersects with and changes name for the final time to Heathcote Road at Lucas Heights, before eventually terminating at the intersection with Princes Highway at Heathcote.\nHistory.\nThe passing of the \"Main Roads Act of 1924\" through the Parliament of New South Wales provided for the declaration of Main Roads, roads partially funded by the State government through the Main Roads Board (later the Department of Main Roads, and eventually Transport for NSW). Main Road no. 158 was declared from Kissing Point Road (today Victoria Road) in Ermington along Marsden Road to the intersection with Pennant Hills Road in Carlingford, and Main Road No. 190 was declared from the intersection with Great Western Highway in Lidcombe, via John Street, Church Street, Railway Parade, East Street, Victoria Street and Rookwood Road to the intersection with Hume Highway at Bankstown, on the same day, 8 August 1928; with the passing of the \"Main Roads (Amendment) Act of 1929\" to provide for additional declarations of State Highways and Trunk Roads, these was amended to Main Roads 158 and 190 on 8 April 1929. Main Road 512 was declared along Heathcote Road on 15 November 1939, between Lucas Heights and Princes Highway at Heathcote (and continuing northwest to Hume Highway at Liverpool).\nThe Department of Main Roads constructed a number of defense routes during World War II, including Heathcote Road and a new road (called New Illawarra Road) between Lucas Heights and Heathcote Road, bypassing the causeway crossing of the Woronora River at The Needles; these projects were completed during 1941.\nMain Road 532 was declared on 25 June 1947 along Sutherland Street, between its intersection with Great Western Highway at Auburn and the Parramatta River. Main Road 532A was declared on 4 May 1949 along Spurway Street, between Kissing Point Road in Dundas and Marsden Road in Dundas; this was replaced by Main Road 574 (and continuing west along Kissing Point Road to its intersection with Victoria Road in Parramatta) on 1 October 1951.\nSpurway Street (part of Main Road 574) was later renamed Stewart Street, and Sutherland Street (Main Road 532) was later renamed Silverwater Road, on the same day, 6 August 1952; Main Road 512 was later renamed Heathcote Road (across its entire length between Liverpool and Heathcote), on 27 July 1955. \nThe road project to bypass Lidcombe station to the west and connect to Bridge Street was completed in 1955 (with Main Road 190 deviating from John Street along Childs Street and the new Bridge Street alignment under the railway lines on 23 March 1955, and its southern end also extended along Chapel Road to meet Canterbury Road at Bankstown at the same time), with the route realigned again to reach Great Western Highway via Olympic Drive and St Hilliers Road instead on 2 May 1962. When the Silverwater Bridge over the Parramatta River was completed in 1962, the northern end of Main Road 532 was extended to cross the bridge to reach the intersection with Victoria Road in Ermington on 22 February 1967. A new bridge over the railway line east of Bankstown connecting both halves of Stacey Street was completed in 1970, and the completion of Alfords Point Bridge over the Georges River in 1973 extended the route further south from Padstow to Lucas Heights.\nThe route underwent further realignments: the Lidcombe bypass, connecting a new alignment from Victoria Street to Olympic Drive where it met at Bridge Street, opened in 1982. The northern end of Main Road 190 was extended northwards (from the intersection with Great Western Highway in Auburn along Silverwater Road via Ermington to the intersection with Kissing Point Road at Dundas \u2013 the last section still under construction at the time - subsuming Main Road 532) and re-aligned southwards (from Rookwood and Chapel Roads to Canterbury Road at Bankstown, to Rookwood Road via Hume Highway along Stacey Street and Fairford and Davies Roads to Henry Lawson Drive at Padstow Heights), on 15 February 1991, then extended south again along Alfords Point Road and New and Old Illawarra Roads to Heathcote Road at Lucas Heights, on 22 January 1993.\nThe Silverwater Road extension from Ermington to Dundas opened in 1996, allowing through traffic along Stewart Street and Marsden Road to Cumberland Highway in Carlingford. In 1999 Stacey Street was extended north to directly connect with Rookwood Road at Chullora, bypassing the dog-leg via Hume Highway between these two roads.\nThe passing of the \"Roads Act of 1993\" updated road classifications and the way they could be declared within New South Wales. Under this act, the A6 retains its declaration as Main Road 190 (from Dundas to Lucas Heights), and part of Main Roads 158 (Marsden Road), 512 (Heathcote Road), and 574 (Stewart Street and Kissing Point Road).\nThe route was allocated State Route 45 in 1974, from Victoria Road in to Princes Highway in , extended to Carlingford when the Silverwater extension opened in 1996. It was replaced in its entirely by Metroad 6 in January 1999. When Metroad 7 along Cumberland Highway was replaced by Westlink M7 on its opening in December 2005, Metroad 6 was extended northwards along Pennant Hills Road to the interchange with M2 Hills Motorway. Metroad 6 was realigned between Menai and Barden Ridge, from Old Illawarra Road onto New Illawarra Road, completed between 2005\u201311 as part of the Bangor Bypass project. With the conversion to the newer alphanumeric system in 2013, Metroad 6 was replaced by route A6, with the previous extension along Pennant Hills Road truncated back to Carlingford.\nFuture.\nIn 2019, the New South Wales Government announced it would rename the northern extension of the Princes Motorway, between Arncliffe and Kogarah (due to open in 2027 or 2028) to the \"M6 Motorway\". No announcement has yet been made on whether the A6 will be renumbered to avoid duplicate numbers."}
{"id": "709130", "revid": "18024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709130", "title": "The Traveller", "text": ""}
{"id": "709131", "revid": "13286072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709131", "title": "Omalur", "text": "Omalur is a panchayat town in Salem district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is one of the 31 panchayat towns in the district, and the administrative seat of Omalur taluk. Spread across an area of , it had a population of 16,279 individuals as per the 2011 census.\nGeography and administration.\nOmalur is located in Salem district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is the administrative seat of Omalur taluk. It is one of the 31 panchayat towns in the district. Spread across an area of , it is located on the highway connecting Salem and Mettur. The region has a tropical climate with hot summers and mild winters. The highest temperatures are recorded in April and May, with lowest recordings in December-January.\nThe town panchayat is sub-divided into 15 wards. It is headed by a chairperson, who is elected by the members, who are chosen through direct elections. The town forms part of the Omalur Assembly constituency that elects its member to the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly and the Salem Lok Sabha constituency that elects its member to the Parliament of India.\nDemographics.\nAs per the 2011 census, Omalur had a population of 16,279 individuals across 4,229 households. The population saw a marginal increase compared to the previous census in 2001 when 13,291 inhabitants were registered. The population consisted of 8,021 males and 8,258 females. About 1,596 individuals were below the age of six years. About 12.9% of the population belonged to scheduled castes. The entire population is classified as urban. The town has an average literacy rate of 84.8%.\nAbout 36.7% of the eligible population were employed full-time, of which majority were involved in agriculture and allied activities. Hinduism was the majority religion which was followed by 88.1% of the population, with Islam (9.7%) and Christianity (2.2%) being minor religions."}
{"id": "709132", "revid": "34711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709132", "title": "Van Basten", "text": ""}
{"id": "709133", "revid": "33989260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709133", "title": "M26 motorway", "text": "The M26 is a motorway in Kent, England. It is a short link between the M25 at Sevenoaks and the M20 near West Malling, which provides connectivity between southern England and the Channel ports in Kent.\nRoute.\nThe motorway starts at junction 3 of the M20 and heads west, encountering almost immediately the single junction along its length where it has an interchange with the A20. This junction is numbered 2a to reflect its proximity to the M20's nearby junction 2 (also connecting with the A20) a short distance to the north-west.\n to the west the M26 merges with the M25 at junction 5. There is no exit from the M26 at junction 5 and all traffic must join the clockwise (westbound) M25. The next M25 junction, number 6, is west at Godstone so traffic joining the M26 at Junction 2a cannot leave the motorway for , the longest distance between motorway exits in the UK.\nOn the anti-clockwise direction of the M25, the main carriageway continues directly onto the M26 at junction 5. To remain on the M25, traffic must turn on to the slip road which connects to the M25 spur coming north from Sevenoaks, which is multiplexed with the A21. The awkwardness of junction 5 is a result of the history of the two motorways' planning and construction.\nHistory.\nConstruction of the first part of the M25 began in 1972 but before it opened, plans for the \"London Orbital\" motorway were modified to combine the southern and western part of Ringway 4 with the northern and eastern part of Ringway 3. To connect the two separate routes, which together were numbered as the M25, an additional section of road needed to be planned and the M25 route was diverted northwards from junction 5 to meet Ringway 3 at Swanley (M25 junction 3).\nThe remaining section of Ringway 4 became the M26. Until February 1986, the anticlockwise M25 simply became the M26 at Junction 5, as the M25 between Junction 5 and Junction 3 was not opened until then.\nA few hundred metres of the eastern end is the former A20(M).\nConstruction.\nConstruction of the M26 began in October 1977, although a route on a similar alignment was originally proposed in the Greater London Plan in 1944 as part of proposed post war improvements to London area transport network. Those proposals were developed further in the 1960s as part of the London Ringways plan and the route of the M26 at that time formed part of Ringway 4 and would have been designated as part of the M25. Construction was slowed down by three wet summers and Gault clay.\nIt was built by Cementation Ltd, with chief engineer was Ian Watts. It cost \u00a318m. There were 300 people on the project; John Oldham was project manager for the Dunton Green to Wrotham section. There was good weather in 1979. The nearby M20, the West Kingsdown to Addington section, was being built at the same time, by Dowsett. But it would be many years before the nearby M25 was built.\nOpening.\nIt was opened on Tuesday 18 November 1980 at 11am at Wrotham by Norman Fowler, Baron Fowler and Mark Wolfson.\nProposed developments.\nNew junction.\nKent County Council has been in talks with the Highways Agency over a possible new junction with the A225, allowing direct access to Sevenoaks \u2013 or access to the A21 at the M25 junction.\nBrexit contingency planning.\nPlans to modify the M26 to hold large numbers of lorries in the event of a no-deal Brexit were publicly revealed in October 2018.\nJunctions.\n! County\n! Location\n! mi\n! km\n! Junction\n! Destinations\n! Notes\n\u00a0 - Sevenoaks, Hastings\nB2016 - Paddock Wood"}
{"id": "709135", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709135", "title": "Sir Garfield Barwick", "text": ""}
{"id": "709136", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709136", "title": "Shrine of Our Lady, Bradstowe", "text": "The Shrine of Our Ladye Star of the Sea was an old chapel on the cliffs at Broadstairs (which was formerly known as Bradstowe). Dating back at least to the 1350s, the two towers of the chapel were a major landmark for sailors in the area. Given the veneration in which the shrine was held, the custom developed of ships dipping their top-sails to salute the shrine as they sailed past it.\nThe Chapel of St. Mary's structural remains are, as incorporated in the modern fa\u00e7ade, situated on the site of what has been said also to be the oldest surviving building still standing in contemporary Broadstairs, and within its modern content is all that remains of the Medieval Shrine of \"Our Lady of Bradstowe\". It stands near the harbour on today's Albion Street, at the junction with Alexandra Road.\nHistory.\nIt is said that the Shrine and its Chapel were known to have existed prior to the year 1070, as it was in that year that the old Saxon Church of St. Peter's, then a wooden structure, was rebuilt with stone and flint as the second daughter church of Minster-in-Thanet.\nThe original building contained the famous shrine of \"Our Ladye of Bradstowe\", a painted wooden statue of the Virgin Mary. The tradition maintained by the Royal Navy of \"showing the flag\" at seaside towns to uphold the morale of the Navy is said to have its origins in a service held at the Bradstowe Chapel in 1514 with the crew of the \"Henry Grace \u00e0 Dieu\" in attendance, whilst the largest and latest addition to the King's Fleet was moored nearby. There was also a wooden cross at the top of the cliff. Chapel Stairs in Albion Street marks where steps cut into the chalk used to go down to the harbor.\nUp until about 1514, when Trinity House took over such duties, it was traditional for coastal towns and village's to display some kind of beacon on the high points of their coastline as a warning against the locally known potential hazards to shipping. Thus in medieval times the Chapel of St. Mary was known as \"The Chapel of Blue Light\", for its light was given out into the dark seas through a blue glass lantern. \nCulmer chapel.\nDuring the 1520s a severe storm that lasted several days swept into Viking Bay with a storm surge and destroyed the Shrine, badly damaging the Chapel. Shipwright George Culmer rebuilt the Chapel and replaced the Shrine.\nIn 1601 the owner of the Chapel and the estate upon which it stood was Sir John Culmer, one of the first Congregationalist pioneers. It was he who had ordered the Chapel (and its Shrine) restored. Restoration in those dark times paid little heed to the integrity of the existing structure, consequently, and although much of the original material was reused in the restoration, the new Chapel was said not to be so picturesque as the original. Some of the original ancient wall, a doorway and window have survived in the renovated structure. The Shrine of the Culmer Chapel, a statue derived from the figure of the Virgin Mary, mounted on a tall column, was so positioned that it faced seaward.\nThe first Pastor in 1601 was Joel Culmer. It had been for some years even then the tradition of ships passing at Thanet to lower their top sail in salutation to the Shrine and Chapel, which was thought to bring a good fate to the passage of the ship.\nThe Shrine was at some stage, probably 1601, placed inside the Chapel, for thereafter local seamen came to refer to it as \"The Weeping Virgin\". Hot weather is said to have caused humidity and thus condensation in the Chapel which settled on the face of the Shrine, and caused the figure to appear in the countenance of the Virgin, weeping. This effect was considered by religious mariners to be a bad omen as a storm would often follow, atmospheric changes indicated in the Chapel were thus a good rough guide to those who would face the perils of the sea.\nThe Chapel was again rebuilt in 1825. In the 1830s it hosted a Baptist congregation. In 1871 the Congregationalists built a new place of worship and the front part of the old chapel housed a blacksmith and a greengrocer. In 1924 the Plymouth Brethren had use of the building. In 1926 it became a parish room for the Anglican Holy Trinity Church. The building has since been used as a bookstore and pub.\nLegacy.\nThe shrine of Our Lady of Bradstowe now resides in Holy Trinity church Broadstairs, not far from the original chapel.\nThe shrine gives its name to the Roman Catholic Church of Our Lady Star of the Sea which is inland at 17 Broadstairs Road in St Peter's. This was designed by Giles Gilbert Scott in 1930."}
{"id": "709137", "revid": "21678789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709137", "title": "Cytochrome P450", "text": "Cytochromes P450 (P450s or CYPs) are a superfamily of enzymes containing heme as a cofactor that mostly, but not exclusively, function as monooxygenases. However, they are not omnipresent; for example, they have not been found in \"Escherichia coli\". In mammals, these enzymes oxidize steroids, fatty acids, xenobiotics, and participate in many biosyntheses. By hydroxylation, CYP450 enzymes convert xenobiotics into hydrophilic derivatives, which are more readily excreted.\nP450s are, in general, the terminal oxidase enzymes in electron transfer chains, broadly categorized as P450-containing systems. The term \"P450\" is derived from the spectrophotometric peak at the wavelength of the absorption maximum of the enzyme (450\u00a0nm) when it is in the reduced state and complexed with carbon monoxide. Most P450s require a protein partner to deliver one or more electrons to reduce the iron (and eventually molecular oxygen).\nNomenclature.\nGenes encoding P450 enzymes, and the enzymes themselves, are designated with the root symbol CYP for the superfamily, followed by a number indicating the gene family, a capital letter indicating the subfamily, and another numeral for the individual gene. The convention is to \"italicize\" the name when referring to the gene. For example, \"CYP2E1\" is the gene that encodes the enzyme CYP2E1\u2014one of the enzymes involved in paracetamol (acetaminophen) metabolism. The CYP nomenclature is the official naming convention, although occasionally CYP450 or CYP450 is used synonymously. These names should never be used as according to the nomenclature convention (as they denote a P450 in family number 450). However, some gene or enzyme names for P450s are also referred to by historical names (e.g. P450BM3 for CYP102A1) or functional names, denoting the catalytic activity and the name of the compound used as substrate. Examples include CYP5A1, thromboxane A2 synthase, abbreviated to TBXAS1 (thromboxane A2 synthase 1), and CYP51A1, lanosterol 14-\u03b1-demethylase, sometimes unofficially abbreviated to LDM according to its substrate (lanosterol) and activity (demethylation).\nThe nomenclature guidelines suggest that members of new CYP families share at least 40% amino-acid identity, while members of subfamilies must share at least 55% amino-acid identity. Nomenclature committees assign and track both base gene names (Cytochrome P450 Homepage ) and allele names (CYP Allele Nomenclature Committee).\nClassification.\nBased on the nature of the electron transfer proteins, P450s can be classified into several groups:\nThe most common reaction catalyzed by cytochromes P450 is a monooxygenase reaction, e.g., insertion of one atom of oxygen into the aliphatic position of an organic substrate (RH), while the other oxygen atom is reduced to water:\nRelated hydroxylation enzymes.\nMany hydroxylation reactions (insertion of hydroxyl groups) use CYP enzymes, but many other hydroxylases exist. Alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylases also rely on an Fe=O intermediate but lack hemes. Methane monooxygenase, which converts methane to methanol, are non-heme iron-and iron-copper-based enzymes.\nMechanism.\nStructure.\nThe active site of cytochrome P450 contains a heme-iron center. The iron is tethered to the protein via a cysteine thiolate ligand. This cysteine and several flanking residues are highly conserved in known P450s, and have the formal PROSITE signature consensus pattern [FW] - [SGNH] - x - [GD] - {F} - [RKHPT] - {P} - C - [LIVMFAP] - [GAD]. In general, the P450 catalytic cycle proceeds as follows:\nCatalytic cycle.\nMechanistic details, including the oxygen rebound mechanism, have been investigated with synthetic analogues, consisting of iron oxo heme complexes.\nSpectroscopy.\nBinding of substrate is reflected in the spectral properties of the enzyme, with an increase in absorbance at 390\u00a0nm and a decrease at 420\u00a0nm. This can be measured by difference spectroscopies and is referred to as the \"type\u00a0I\" difference spectrum (see inset graph in figure). Some substrates cause an opposite change in spectral properties, a \"reverse type\u00a0I\" spectrum, by processes that are as yet unclear. Inhibitors and certain substrates that bind directly to the heme iron give rise to the type\u00a0II difference spectrum, with a maximum at 430\u00a0nm and a minimum at 390\u00a0nm (see inset graph in figure). If no reducing equivalents are available, this complex may remain stable, allowing the degree of binding to be determined from absorbance measurements \"in vitro\"\nC: If carbon monoxide (CO) binds to reduced P450, the catalytic cycle is interrupted. This reaction yields the classic CO difference spectrum with a maximum at 450\u00a0nm. However, the interruptive and inhibitory effects of CO varies upon different CYPs such that the CYP3A family is relatively less affected.\nBinding site.\nThe heme in cytochrome P450 binds to a conserved sequence: phe \u2013 X \u2013 X \u2013 gly \u2013 arg \u2013 X \u2013 cys \u2013 X \u2013 gly, where \"X\" denotes some variant amino acid. The cysteine binds Fe and arginine, forming strong electrostatic interactions with negatively charged side chains of the heme. The glycine residues within the conserved sequence are essential, as their small structure enables surrounding alpha helices to remain in place without interacting with a variant amino acid."}
{"id": "709138", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709138", "title": "Education IRA", "text": ""}
{"id": "709140", "revid": "18735057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709140", "title": "A4/M4 (Sydney)", "text": "The A4, A44 and M4 are a collection of arterial routes in Sydney, New South Wales that connect the Inner West of Sydney with the outer western suburbs.\nThe A4 and M4 mostly follows what was previously National Route 32 from the Western Distributor in the CBD, west to the Great Western Highway at Lapstone. Both the A4 and M4 sections were known as Metroad 4 until 2013, which in turn replaced the previous Sydney stretch of National Route 32 in September 1992 while the A44 was known as State Route 44 until 2013.\nBetween 2019 and 2023, the progressive opening of WestConnex resulted in route allocation of M4 along newly opened sections, and former bypassed sections of A4 redesignated as A44. The last route redesignation was in November 2023 with the opening of Rozelle Interchange, the last component of the WestConnex.\nThe names \"M4\", \"A44\" and \"A4\" are just the route allocations for the route as a whole. In fact, the M4 route runs along a whole series of motorways with the A44 running parallel along non-motorway roads until they converge west of Anzac Bridge. East of here is the Western Distributor, the only section of the A4 route, even though the Western Distributor is also a controlled-access highway (i.e. like a motorway but with lower speed limits).\nThe roads from east to west are:\nHistory.\nThe earliest route allocation of M4/A4 is National Route 32. It was introduced in 1954 with other National Routes. Most of the 1954 alignment of National Route 32 in Sydney is very different from the current M4/A4 alignment in Sydney. Back then National Route 32 ran along the entire Great Western Highway from via the Blue Mountains to Broadway, Sydney.\nWith the opening of the M4 Motorway in 1992, National Route 32 was truncated and terminated at Lapstone in Blue Mountains instead. Metroad 4 was introduced to replace the Sydney section of National Route 32, but went along the motorway instead of Great Western Highway from Lapstone to North Strathfield. This was the first Metroad to be introduced in Sydney. The section of Great Western Highway that was formerly National Route 32 was allocated State Route 44 which is now A44.\nIn 2000, when the City West Link opened, Metroad 4 was realigned to Wattle Street, Dobroyd Parade, City West Link, Victoria Road and Western Distributor and terminated at the junction of Cahill Expressway, Western Distributor and Bradfield Highway in Millers Point.\nIn 2013, as part of the state-wide alpha numeric route conversion, the Metroad 4 was replaced by M4 for the motorway and A4 for the non-motorway section.\nIn July 2019, the A4 between Strathfield and Haberfield was realigned onto the new M4 East tunnels and was redesignated M4. This meant that A4 no longer runs along any section of Parramatta Road or Great Western Highway.\nIn January 2023, the M4 route was extended along the newly open M4\u2013M8 tunnels, but temporarily transitioned into the M8 route at . The previous A4 on City West Link was also redesignated A44. This resulted in a discontinuity between the M4 and A4 routes for ten months, until the opening of the Rozelle Interchange in November 2023 which extended the M4 route along newly opened tunnels to meet with the A4 just west of Anzac Bridge."}
{"id": "709141", "revid": "525927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709141", "title": "Gilberto Concepci\u00f3n de Gracia", "text": "Dr. Gilberto Concepci\u00f3n de Gracia (July 9, 1909 \u2013 March 16, 1968) was a lawyer, journalist, author, politician, former senator and founder of the Puerto Rican Independence Party. He is the great-uncle of maternal siblings Residente and ILE of Calle 13, and Lin-Manuel Miranda.\nEarly years.\nConcepci\u00f3n de Gracia was born in the town of Vega Alta, Puerto Rico to Ceferino Concepci\u00f3n \u00c1lvarez and Carmen de Gracia Toro. There he attended Jos\u00e9 de Diego elementary school in his hometown of Vega Alta and \"Central High School\" in Santurce, a district of San Juan, Puerto Rico. After he graduated from high school, he continued his academic education studies and earned a bachelors and later master's degree in Law and Public Administration from the University of Puerto Rico. He earned a doctorate in Law from George Washington University Law School in Washington, D.C.\nCareer as a lawyer.\nConcepci\u00f3n de Gracia worked as a lawyer specializing in civil and constitutional law. In 1936, at the age of 25, he moved to New York to represent Pedro Albizu Campos and other members of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party, who were jailed and appealing their case.\nConcepci\u00f3n de Gracia remained in New York, defending the civil rights of Hispanic workers and other minorities. He became more involved in politics, and particularly the cause of Puerto Rican independence from the United States. He befriended the like-minded congressman Vito Marcantonio, and took the editorship of a newspaper called \"La Voz\" (\"The Voice\").\nEducator.\nConcepci\u00f3n de Gracia later became a professor of Hispanic literature at Middlebury College in Vermont. He then moved to Washington, D.C., and worked at the Panamerican Union, the organization which would later be known as the Organization of American States. In 1943, while he continued to pursue his Law education, Concepcion de Gracia joined a group called the 'Congress for Independence', which advocated the independence of Puerto Rico.\nPuerto Rican Independence Party.\nOn October 20, 1946, the Puerto Rican Independence Party (\"Partido Independentista Puertorrique\u00f1o\", or \"PIP\") was created with Concepci\u00f3n de Gracia as its president. The PIP was registered as an official political party in 1948 and participated in that year's elections. It became the second-largest party in Puerto Rico in 1952, when it captured 20% of the electoral vote. Fifteen (15) PIP members were elected to the House of Representatives of Puerto Rico that year. Concepcion de Gracia himself joined the Senate of Puerto Rico, and became the speaker for his party, a post which he held until 1960.\nThat year, the Popular Democratic Party of Puerto Rico (PPD) won the governorship and created a political status known as the Associated Free State (\"Estado Libre Asociado\", or \"ELA\"). Concepcion de Gracia claimed that the new status was only a deceptive way to hide and continue the colonial relationship with the U.S.\nOn July 25, 1952, Puerto Rico adopted a constitution establishing its status as a commonwealth. Concepci\u00f3n de Gracia and the PIP considered this status to be just another name for colonialism, and did not participate in the Constitutional Assembly.\nPuerto Rico before the United Nations.\nConcepci\u00f3n de Gracia and Julio Pinto Gand\u00eda took Puerto Rico's case before the United Nations and sustained that Puerto Ricans should have the right to a consultation before being sent to any war. He also protested the sterilization practices in the U.S. of Puerto Ricans and the passive immigration of Puerto Ricans to the U.S.\nIn 1955 he represented Puerto Rico in a conference held in Bandung, Indonesia sponsored by the United Nations. He also represented the PIP at the 1949 conference of the Organization of American States held in Havana, Cuba, and at the 1957 conference in Maracay, Venezuela. In 1964 he represented the PIP at a United States Congress commission on Puerto Rico's political status. Gilberto Concepci\u00f3n de Gracia died on March 15, 1968, in Santurce, Puerto Rico. He was buried at Santa Mar\u00eda Magdalena de Pazzis Cemetery in San Juan, Puerto Rico.\nIn memory.\nConcepci\u00f3n de Gracia's name has been attached to many places in Puerto Rico, including the beach on the contested island of Vieques where the PIP established a camp in 1999 during the Navy-Vieques protests. His native town of Vega Alta erected a statue in his honor in the town's square."}
{"id": "709143", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709143", "title": "Spike Breakwell", "text": "Spike Breakwell (born Colin James Breakwell on 13 June 1968) is a British comedian. When he was four months old he became disabled through taking oral polio vaccine which caused a two-week coma. He was brought up in Dunstable, and \"treated and raised to be as stubborn and independent as anyone else round about.\" As a child, he attended Lady Zia Wernher School in Luton, then moved to Lord Mayor Treloar College in Alton, Hampshire for his secondary education.\nBreakwell was the first wheelchair-using comedian on the London alternative club circuit from 1992, appearing on stage and BBC2 television. His act always started with the line: \"...I don't know what I've been drinking but I could walk half an hour ago!\". He also co-wrote and co-starred (with Simon Hardeman) in the Edinburgh International Festival Fringe shows \"On The Toilet With Shergar (An Evening of Horseplay and Lavatory Humour )\" in 1992, \"Simon and Spikes Laugh-In\" in 1993 and the critically acclaimed play looking at comedy \"Death of a Comedian\" in 1994.\nHe co-wrote (with Simon Hardeman) the \"Beginners' Guide\" column in The Times Magazine. He has also been a regular in a BBC disability magazine programme. In January 2006 Breakwell and part of the \"Wheelabout\" expedition team drove across Australia. He had planned to become the first person to cross from Perth to Sydney (4600 miles) in an electric wheelchair. However, funding for the trip failed to materialise and it is yet to be completed.\nIn October 2007 he appeared in his first Hollywood film, \"Dante's Criterion\", described as a supernatural horror story of a possessed television, as \"Ziggy Fontain\" a wheelchair-using TV advertising producer."}
{"id": "709145", "revid": "15996738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709145", "title": "Ariadne (software)", "text": "The European Knowledge Pool System Ariadne (acronym for Alliance of Remote Instructional Authoring and Distribution Networks for Europe) is a European association (or consortium) for sharing knowledge and fostering international cooperation in teaching that is open to the world.\nAriadne was initiated in 1996 by the European Commission's telematics for education and training program. Since then, an infrastructure has been developed in Belgium and Switzerland for the production of reusable learning content, including distributed storage and discovery, as well as its exploitation in structured courses. The core of this infrastructure is a distributed library of digital, reusable educational components called the \"Knowledge Pool System\" (KPS) in 2007 actively used in both academic and corporate contexts.\nEnd users interact with the KPS through client tools. Java and web applications allow users to insert documents and their associated metadata into the KPS, search for relevant documents, and download them from the KPS. Java applications interact with the KPS through the \"ARIADNE Web Services\". The ARIADNE Web Services provide an API that hides the database access details and also enables interoperability with other repositories.\nThe ARIADNE toolset contains the following components:\nThe ARIADNE Knowledge Pool System distributed learning object repository for multicultural/multilingual teachers and learner\nis accessible through Sourceforge."}
{"id": "709146", "revid": "7436027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709146", "title": "Transit of Venus (play)", "text": "Transit of Venus is a play by Canadian playwright Maureen Hunter. It was first produced at the Manitoba Theatre Centre in November 1992.\nThe play is based on the life of Guillaume Le Gentil (1725\u20131792), a gentleman astronomer.\nIn the play, he is obsessed with observing the transit of Venus. He leaves Celeste, the girl who loves him, to embark on an expedition to observe it. He returns after six years, having failed to observe the transit. He immediately makes preparations for a new expedition to observe the next transit.\nSome artistic license was taken: the real-life Guillaume Le Gentil did not return until after the second transit, remaining overseas during the eight-year interim.\nThe play was subsequently performed across Canada, by the Royal Shakespeare Company and the BBC.\nOpera version.\nThe play was transformed into an opera of the same name with libretto by Maureen Hunter and music by Victor Davies. This was presented by Manitoba Opera on November 24, 2007."}
{"id": "709148", "revid": "1261736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709148", "title": "Platini", "text": ""}
{"id": "709150", "revid": "41219559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709150", "title": "M55 motorway", "text": "The M55 is a motorway in Lancashire, England, which can also be referred to as the Preston Northern Bypass. It connects the seaside resort of Blackpool to the M6 at Preston. It is 12.2 miles (19.6\u00a0km) in length.\n was originally built in 1958 as part of the UK's first motorway, the Preston Bypass, and the remainder was built in 1975.\nRoute.\nThe M55 has three lanes in both directions for most of its length. After leaving the M6 at junction 32, the road immediately interchanges with the A6 and then crosses the West Coast Main Line. It meets the A582 extension, built in 2023, at junction 2, then crosses the Lancaster Canal before passing north of Wesham to meet the A585 at junction 3. It then continues west in a rural setting to meet A583 at junction 4, where the motorway ends and becomes the A5230. The western part of the M55, and the first few hundred metres of the A5230, occupy the route of the old Blackpool Branch railway line.\nHistory.\nThe first motorway constructed in Great Britain was the M6 Preston Bypass, opened in 1958. This ran from the current M6 junction 29 to the M55 junction 1. It was built as a two-lane route. In 1965 the M6 was extended north from what is the current day junction 32 to meet the Lancaster Bypass, and the M6 junction was rebuilt to its current design to connect the A6 at the now M55 junction 1. Due to increasing traffic, it was decided to provide a motorway link to Blackpool and this road was opened in 1975.\nSome of the material for backfilling the new M55 was obtained from a nearby disused airfield at RNAS Inskip, where the runways were broken up and the land returned to agriculture. More material came from the Tootle Heights quarries in Longridge.\nJunction 2.\nUntil 2023, the motorway had no junction 2. A proposed South Ribble link road would have involved the extension of the M65 motorway around the west of Preston to link to the M55 at the missing junction. The link road proposal has been dormant since the mid-1990s. Between 1993 and 1995, the M6 around the east of Preston was widened to four lanes, making the link road proposal less likely.\nAs part of a City Deal signed between Preston City Council and central Government in late 2013, both Lancashire County Council and Preston City Council agreed in principle to build a 'Preston Western Distributor Road' which would link the A583/A584 outside Clifton to a new junction 2 of the M55.\nConstruction of the new road began in September 2019 and involved a new motorway junction, four new bridges and two viaducts. The \u00a3200million scheme was completed in July 2023 and was named Edith Rigby Way. Moto Hospitality submitted plans to Preston City Council in December 2024 to build a services station off junction 2.\nIncidents.\nAircraft test landing.\nOn 26 April 1975, during work to extend the motorway, a test was conducted, by test pilot Tim Ferguson, using a Jaguar military jet aircraft from nearby Warton Aerodrome to prove the viability of using the road as a makeshift runway in time of war. Jaguar \"XX109\" was the second production model. Ferguson was the deputy chief test pilot of BAC Warton. The demonstration was not publicised, in the interests of public safety, but many spectators crossed the fields and gathered on the banks at the side of the motorway to watch.\nJunctions.\nThe entire route is in the ceremonial county of Lancashire.\n!scope=col|Location\n!scope=col|mi\n!scope=col|km\n!scope=col|Junction\n!scope=col|Destinations\n!scope=col|Notes\n\u00a0\u2013 Lytham St Annes\nJunctions 3 and 4 are visual reporting points (VRPs) for general aviation aircraft in the surrounding Blackpool Airport airspace."}
{"id": "709153", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709153", "title": "Amoy Garden", "text": ""}
{"id": "709155", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709155", "title": "Cause of Vieques", "text": ""}
{"id": "709158", "revid": "41935478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709158", "title": "Speedbird", "text": "The Speedbird is the stylised emblem of a bird in flight designed in 1932 by Theyre Lee-Elliott as the corporate logo for Imperial Airways. It became a design classic and was used by the airline and its successors \u2013 British Overseas Airways Corporation (BOAC) and British Airways \u2013 for 52 years. The term \"Speedbird\" is still the call sign for British Airways.\nHistory.\nImperial Airways.\nThe original Speedbird was designed in 1932 for Imperial Airways by Theyre Lee-Elliott through Stuart Advertising Agency. A relief sculpture, which become the final version, was made by Barbara Hepworth. It was initially used on advertising posters and luggage labels. Later, it was applied to the nose section of the company's aircraft and could be seen for example in 1938 on the company's Short Empire S.30 flying boats.\nBOAC.\nWith the creation of BOAC in 1939 the logo was retained, continuing to appear on the noses of aircraft throughout World War II despite the military-style camouflage that had replaced the airline livery.\nFrom 1950 BOAC gave the Speedbird greater prominence on the aircraft using it on the tail fin, either in navy blue on a white background or vice versa, and also using it widely elsewhere, such as on airport buses.\nWith the advent of air traffic control and the adoption of call signs to identify aircraft and their operators, BOAC chose the name of their now well-known logo, \"Speedbird\", as their call sign when in flight.\nIn the mid-1960s the design of the Speedbird was slightly altered, with a slimmer \"body\" and larger \"wing\", and on the tailfin coloured gold on a navy blue background. Elsewhere the colours used for it were mostly a combination of cyan and white.\nBritish Airways.\nIn 1974, BOAC was merged with British European Airways and others to form British Airways. The speedbird logo was retained unaltered, but returned to the nose section of the aircraft. A prominent Union Flag design now occupied the fin.\nThe Speedbird survived for another ten years, finally being retired in December 1984. It was replaced by the Speedwing, which was itself replaced by the current Speedmarque in 1997.\nAs British Airways prepared for privatisation, a new corporate look was adopted in 1984, developed by Landor Associates. Referred to as the Speedwing, the red flash on the lower dark blue part of the fuselage bore a slight resemblance to the original 1930s design. The current Speedmarque ribbon bears a resemblance to the original Speedbird, but is simpler in design, being similar to the Landor Associates Speedwing.\n\"Speedbird\" continues to be used by British Airways as the ICAO callsign for its main international services. On its domestic services, it uses the callsign \"Shuttle\".\nHatton Cross tube station, which opened in 1975, features Speedbird tile artwork on its platform pillars, and has retained them from the station's opening to the present day.\nIn 2019, the Speedbird emblem returned to use by British Airways with the unveiling of their BOAC-liveried Boeing 747-400 to celebrate 100 years of BA and its predecessors.\nDesign significance.\nTheyre Lee-Elliott was a graphic artist and painter working in London in the 1930s.\nThe Speedbird is among his best known works. The minimalist, stylish and avant-garde design representing a bird in flight it is instantly recognisable and has a timelessly modern appeal.\nLee-Elliott was influenced by Vorticism, particularly the work of Edward McKnight Kauffer. The logo echoes Kauffer's angular bird forms in his 1918 poster for the \"Daily Herald\".\nOther notable works by Lee-Elliott include posters for the London Underground and the Airmail logo. Many of his paintings and original artworks are in the collection of the Victoria and Albert Museum.\nOther Speedbirds.\nA somewhat different Speedbird logo was designed for Piedmont Airlines in 1948.\nSpeedbird House was an office block at Heathrow Airport. It was originally the headquarters of BOAC and, until the company moved, of British Airways.\nSpeedbird Way is a road near the Colnbrook Bypass, close to Heathrow Airport.\nSpeedbird is also the name of one of the British Airways Sailing Club yachts.\nThe Malliga MAL 04 Speedbird was a 2010s Austrian experimental high-speed monoplane."}
