{"id": "714669", "revid": "24198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714669", "title": "Dell'Arcano del Mare", "text": "Dell'Arcano del Mare by Sir Robert Dudley is a 17th-century maritime encyclopaedia, the sixth part of which comprises a maritime atlas of the entire world, which is the first such in print, the first made by an Englishman, and the first to use the Mercator projection. The work was first published in Italian at Florence in 1645 and 1646 in three folio volumes.\nAmong other things, it is remarkable for its inclusion of a proposal for the construction of a navy in five rates (sizes) which Dudley designed and described. It was reprinted in Florence in a two volume folio edition in 1661 without the charts of the first edition.\nThe seventh map is dedicated to Dudley's patrons, Ferdinando II de' Medici, the Grand Duke of Tuscany and the Grand Duchess of Tuscany Vittoria della Rovere. The map covers the northeast coast of South America, which Dudley had visited in 1594. The area depicted covers modern French Guiana, Guyana, and a small portion of Brazil. The map also depicts \"Monoa\", the area otherwise known as El Dorado. \nScope.\nThe six-part work covered navigation, shipbuilding and astronomy, with 130 maps in two volumes (nos. 2 and 6) . Unlike the vast majority of his contemporaries, Dudley's maps are all his own and were not copied from other mapmakers. They have an instantly recognisable style, closer to the pre-17th-century manuscript portolan charts than the richly decorated maps of Mercator, Hondius and Blaeu.\nStyle.\nThe distinctive Baroque style of Dudley's charts is in part attributable to the elegant engraving of Antonio Francesco Lucini.\nHis map making is an early use of Mercator projection.\nIndividual maps.\nCarta Particolare Che Mostra Il Capo Buona Speranza.\n\"Carta Particolare Che Mostra Il Capo Buona Speranza\" is a very large sea chart of southwest Africa from Cape Fria to Cape of Good Hope, including Tristan da Cunha.\nCarta Quarta Generale di Europa.\n\"Carta Quarta Generale di Europa\", 1646 is one of the larger scale, generalised (Carta Generale) maps and shows the West coast of France, southward from La Rochelle, and the Northern coast of Spain. This is the least ornate of the styles adopted by Dudley with no adornment other than the cartouche and a compass rose and fairly plain calligraphy.\nSmaller scale maps.\nFour additional maps represent the majority of the smaller scale, more specific (\"Carta Particolare\") maps and include sailing ships, notes on prevailing winds and currents and more stylised calligraphy.\nCarta Particolare della Costa Australe scoperta dalla Ollandesia.\n\"Carta Particolare della Costa Australe scoperta dalla Ollandesia\", 1646. According to Tooley, this map is the first separately printed map of Australia and is consequently of great value. It shows, in addition to the west side of the Cape York peninsula, much of the island of New Guinea. By labelling the Torres Strait \"Golfo Incognito\" Dudley leaves open the question of whether New Guinea is connected to the Southern continent.\nCarta Particolare della Rio d' Amazone con la costa sin al fiume Maranhan.\n\"Carta Particolare della Rio d' Amazone con la costa sin al fiume Maranhan\" of 1646 shows the mouth of the Amazon River.\nCarta particolare che comincia con l' Isola di S. Tomaso o Tome...Clara e finisce con Il c. d' Aldeas.\n\"Carta particolare che comincia con l' Isola di S. Tomaso o Tome...Clara e finisce con Il c. d' Aldeas\". This map of the shoreline of the African Congo includes an elegant cartouche, and islands off the coastline.\nCarta particolare della Brasilia Australe che comincia dala Poro del Spirito Santo e finisce con il capo Bianco.\n\"Carta particolare della Brasilia Australe che comincia dala Poro del Spirito Santo e finisce con il capo Bianco\" reveals a strip of the southern Brazil coastline and includes S\u00e3o Paulo and the area later to become Rio de Janeiro. Noted for some of the most peculiar representations of mountains near the coastline found on any Dudley map.\nFrench Guiana, Guyana and a small portion of Brazil.\nUntitled, (N-E South America).\nThe seventh map is one of only two in the atlas which have no title but instead dedications to Ferdinando II de' Medici, the Grand Duke of Tuscany and, in this case, the Grand Duchess of Tuscany Vittoria della Rovere, Dudley's patrons. This is another double page map and probably comes from the 1646 edition. These two maps are probably different because they are the only ones where Dudley was able to use his own observations as they cover the North East coast of South America, the area he visited in 1594. This map shows the coasts of French Guiana, Guyana and a small portion of Brazil. Considerably more elaborate than the others, this map includes soundings and numerous illustrations, namely: two ships, a canoe, two magnificent sea monsters, a (?) cougar and two natives. It also has a legend stating that Monoa \u2013 more often known as El Dorado \u2013 is only 12 days' journey up-river from the coast."}
{"id": "714670", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714670", "title": "Kok\u00f8/ language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714672", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714672", "title": "//Au-kwe language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714673", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714673", "title": "/Aukwe language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714675", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714675", "title": "Aukwe language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714677", "revid": "16528336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714677", "title": "Bradford and Bingley", "text": ""}
{"id": "714678", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714678", "title": "//Au//e\u00ec language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714680", "revid": "10951369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714680", "title": "Arnold J. Isbell", "text": "Captain Arnold J. Isbell, USN (September 22, 1899 \u2013 March 19, 1945) was a United States Navy officer and Naval Aviator who was killed near the end of World War II.\nEarly life and career.\nIsbell was born September 22, 1899, in Oto, Iowa. Raised in Logan, Iowa, he was appointed to the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland, in 1917, graduating and being commissioned as an ensign in 1920. He was graduated a year early because of accelerated training received during World War I. He served in various vessels in the Pacific until 1923, at which time he was ordered to duty in flight instruction. He received his wings and appointment as Naval Aviator (Seaplane) on January 11, 1924.\nFrom 1924 to 1926 his duty involved flying in various categories, the most notable being on the Navy's first carrier, USS \"Langley\". From 1926 to 1929 he undertook the postgraduate course in ordnance at Annapolis, Maryland. Isbell's duty from 1929 until 1940 when he was promoted to the rank of commander was principally concerned with flying and ordnance. He served on the original carrier \"Lexington\", placed the carrier \"Ranger\" in commission and served on the staff of the Commander Aircraft, attached to the Battle Force. At Naval Air Station Pensacola, Isbell assumed command of Training Squadron VN-4D8 in September 1937 and Training Squadron VN-2D8 in January 1939.\nWorld War II service.\nPrior to the actual entrance of the United States in World War II, Captain Isbell was actively engaged in operations vitally connected with the expansion of US bases. He was awarded the Air Medal for \"meritorious achievement while participating in aerial flight as Commanding Officer of Patrol Squadron 54 during the initial selection and survey of US Army and Navy Bases in Newfoundland in September and October 1940.\"\nIsbell was promoted to captain in 1942 while in command of the Naval Air Station, Sitka, Alaska. In 1943, Isbell took command of the USS \"Card\", an escort carrier, for which duty he was awarded the Navy Distinguished Service Medal for a notable record of German submarine sinkings in the Central Atlantic convoy routes during World War II.\nFollowing his successful command of the \"Card\", Isbell was on duty with the Tenth Fleet, Anti-submarine Warfare, Navy Department, Washington, D.C., for a year. He then reported to the Pacific Fleet for assignment as Commanding Officer of USS \"Yorktown\". It was while taking passage on USS \"Franklin\" prior to assuming command that Isbell lost his life when the carrier was hit by bombs from a Japanese plane off Okinawa on March 19, 1945.\nNamesake and honors.\nThe destroyer USS \"Arnold J. Isbell\" (DD-869) was named in Captain Isbell's honor. In addition, the Captain Arnold Jay Isbell Trophy, a US Navy award to recognize superior air antisubmarine warfare (ASW) squadrons, is also named in his honor."}
{"id": "714684", "revid": "10202399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714684", "title": "Webring", "text": "A webring (or web ring) is a collection of websites linked together in a circular structure, usually organized around a specific theme, and often educational or social. They were popular in the 1990s and early 2000s, particularly among amateur websites.\nTo be a part of the webring, each site has a common navigation bar; it contains links to the previous and next sites. By selecting next (or previous) repeatedly, the user will eventually reach the site they started at; this is the origin of the term \"webring.\" However, the select-through route around the ring is usually supplemented by a central site with links to all member sites; this prevents the ring from breaking completely if a member site goes offline.\nA webring is managed from one website which is able to omit the websites that have dropped out or are no longer reachable. The advantage of a webring is that if the user is interested in the topic on one website, they can quickly connect to another website on the same topic. \nWebrings usually have a moderator who decides which pages to include in the webring. After approval, webmasters add their pages to the ring by 'linking in' to the ring; this requires adding the necessary HTML or JavaScript to their site.\nSites usually join a webring in order to receive traffic from related sites. When used to improve search engine rankings, webrings can be considered a search engine optimization technique.\nWebrings are mainly viewed as a relic of the early web of the 1990s. When the primary site that managed web rings, webring.org was acquired by Yahoo, \"ring masters\" lost access to their webrings and the web ring hubs were replaced by a Yahoo page. By the time Yahoo stopped controlling webring.org in 2001, search engines had become good enough that web rings were no longer as useful. The webring.org site was still active in the mid-2010s.\nWebRing.com.\nDenis Howe started EUROPa (Expanding Unidirectional Ring Of Pages) at Imperial College in 1994. The idea developed further when Giraldo Hierro conceptualized a central CGI (Common Gateway Interface) script to enhance functionality. Sage Weil developed such a script in May 1994. Weil's script gained popularity, pushing Weil in June 1995 to form a company called WebRing. In 1997, Weil sold WebRing to Starseed, Inc.\nIn 1998, Starseed was acquired by GeoCities, which made no major changes to the system. Just a few months later, in early 1999, Yahoo! bought GeoCities, and eighteen months after the acquisition, on September 5, 2000, Yahoo! unveiled a fully overhauled WebRing, known as Yahoo! WebRing. Although Yahoo!'s implementation was meant to streamline the way the rings were managed and provide a more consistent interface for all rings, many of these changes were unpopular with ringmasters accustomed to the older system which gave them more flexibility.\nOn April 15, 2001, Yahoo! ended its support of WebRing, leaving the site in the hands of one technician from the original WebRing, Timothy Killeen. On October 12, 2001, he unveiled a WebRing no longer affiliated with Yahoo!. In the years since that change, many of the features which had been stripped by Yahoo!, particularly customization options, were re-implemented into the WebRing system.\nOn September 26, 2006, WebRing Inc. announced a new WebRing Premium Membership Program. Memberships were separated into two types, WebRing 1.0 and WebRing 2.0. Sites that were part of WebRing 1.0 would be limited to 50 webrings per URL. Existing 1.0 members could maintain more than 50, but can not add more. In conjunction with the premium membership program, WebRing introduced an affiliate program, in which webmasters earned money when others join webrings from their site, and they earned an additional payment if the new member purchases a premium membership.\nIn early October 2007, the US Trademark office granted WebRing a trademark on its name. Also in that month, Yahoo!'s long partnership ended, when WebRing ownership repurchased WebRing stock held by Yahoo!, marking the first time since the late 1990s that WebRing was privately held.\nBy August 15, 2020, webring.com became inaccessible, and as of December 18, 2021, the domain name has been taken over by a domain squatter.\nOther webring websites.\nAn alternative website is Webringo.com, run as a hobby by the RingMaster. The first \"webringo\" first appeared in the Internet Archive in September 2006, but failed in September 2011.\nThe present RingMaster took it over as a hobby in August 2012, and then went down somewhere in March 2024.\nAlt-webring.com used the Ringlink (Free CGI Perl program for running webrings). \nThe first \"Alt-webring\" first appeared in the Internet Archive in April 2003. Alt-webring.com has since closed and has been taken over by a domain squatter.\nRingSurf.com uses the term \"Net Rings\". The site first appeared in the Internet Archive in June 1998. The site's main page and directory of rings are still operating as of May 2025, but the rings' sites are inaccessible.\nWebring software.\nWhile the largest webring services use their own proprietary software, a few programs have been written that make it possible for webmasters to run webrings without being dependent on an off-site service. Ringlink, SimpleRing, PHP-Ring, and Ringmaker are some examples."}
{"id": "714692", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714692", "title": "Le Fanu", "text": "Le Fanu is a surname, also spelled LeFanu. Notable people with the name include"}
{"id": "714694", "revid": "390688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714694", "title": "Northern England", "text": "Northern England, or the North of England, often referred to as simply The North, is the northern part of England and mainly corresponds to the historic counties of Cheshire, Cumberland, Durham, Lancashire, Northumberland, Westmorland and Yorkshire. Officially, it is a grouping of three statistical regions: the North East, the North West, and Yorkshire and the Humber, which had a combined population of 15.5 million at the 2021 census, an area of and 17 cities.\nNorthern England is culturally and economically distinct from both the Midlands and Southern England. The area's northern boundary is the border with Scotland, its western the Irish Sea and a short border with Wales, and its eastern the North Sea. Its southern border is often debated, and there has been controversy in defining what geographies or cultures precisely constitute the 'North of England' \u2014 if, indeed, it exists as a coherent entity at all. \nThe region corresponds to the borders of the sub-Roman Brythonic Celtic territory of Yr Hen Ogledd (the Old North), as well as the medieval Anglian Kingdom of Northumbria. Many Industrial Revolution innovations began in Northern England, and its cities were the crucibles of many of the political changes that accompanied this social upheaval, from trade unionism to Manchester Liberalism. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the economy of the North was dominated by heavy industry. Centuries of immigration, invasion, and labour have shaped Northern England's culture, and it has retained countless distinctive accents and dialects, music, arts, and cuisine. Industrial decline in the second half of the 20th century damaged the North, leading to greater deprivation than in the South. Although urban renewal projects and the transition to a service economy have resulted in strong economic growth in parts of the North, the North\u2013South divide remains in both the economy and culture of England.\nDefinitions.\nFor government and statistical purposes, Northern England is defined as the area covered by the three northernmost statistical regions of England: North East England, North West England and Yorkshire and the Humber. This area consists of the ceremonial counties of Cheshire, Cumbria, County Durham, East Riding of Yorkshire, Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Merseyside, Northumberland, North Yorkshire, South Yorkshire, Tyne and Wear and West Yorkshire, plus the unitary authority areas of North Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire within the ceremonial county Lincolnshire.\nOther definitions use historic county boundaries, in which case the North is generally taken to comprise Cumberland, Northumberland, Westmorland, County Durham, Lancashire and Yorkshire, often supplemented by Cheshire. The boundary is sometimes drawn without reference to human borders, using geographic features such as the River Mersey (the line between the Humber and Mersey estuaries being a common boundary) and River Trent. The Isle of Man is occasionally included in broad geographical definitions of \"the North\" (for example, by the Survey of English Dialects, VisitBritain and BBC North West), although it is politically and culturally distinct from England.\nSome areas of Derbyshire, Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire have northern characteristics and include satellites of northern cities. Towns in the High Peak borough of Derbyshire are included in the Greater Manchester Built-Up Area, as villages and hamlets there such as Tintwistle, Crowden and Woodhead were formerly in Cheshire before local government boundary changes in 1974, due to their close proximity to the city of Manchester, and before this the borough was considered to be part of the Greater Manchester Statutory City Region. More recently, the Chesterfield, North East Derbyshire, Bolsover, and Derbyshire Dales districts have joined with districts of South Yorkshire to form the Sheffield City Region, along with the Bassetlaw District of Nottinghamshire, although for all other purposes these districts still remain in their respective East Midlands counties. Some parts of northern Derbyshire (including High Peak), Shropshire and Staffordshire are served by BBC North West. Some areas of Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire are served by BBC Yorkshire (formerly BBC North), whilst eastern Yorkshire shares its BBC region with Lincolnshire and small parts of Nottinghamshire and north west Norfolk. The historic part of Lincolnshire known as Lindsey (in essence the northern half of the county) is considered by many to be northern, or at least a larger part of Lincolnshire than merely the north and northeast Lincolnshire districts. The geographer Danny Dorling includes most of the West Midlands and part of the East Midlands in his definition of the North, claiming that \"ideas of a midlands region add more confusion than light\". \nConversely, more restrictive definitions of Northern England also exist. Some are based on the extent of the historical Northumbria, which excludes Cheshire and northern Lincolnshire, though the latter formed the Kingdom of Lindsey, which was periodically under Northumbrian rule. The Redcliffe-Maud Report (1969) proposed that southern Cheshire be grouped with north Staffordshire as part of a West Midlands province as opposed to a North West England one. Occasionally, \"Northern England\" may be used to describe England's northernmost reaches only, broadly the North East and Cumbria, excluding the entirety, or at least the majority, of Lancashire and Yorkshire. Some settlements, including Sheffield, located in the far south of what would typically be defined as \"the North\", have been referred to as being in the \"North Midlands\" as opposed to \"the North\".\nPersonal definitions of the North vary greatly. When asked to draw a dividing line between North and South, Southerners tend to draw this line further south than Northerners do. From the Southern perspective, Northern England is sometimes defined jokingly as the area north of the Watford Gap between Northampton and Leicester \u2013 a definition which would include much of the Midlands. Various cities and towns have been described as or promoted themselves as the \"gateway to the North\", including Crewe, Stoke-on-Trent, and Sheffield. For some in the northernmost reaches of England, the North starts somewhere in North Yorkshire around the River Tees \u2013 the Yorkshire poet Simon Armitage suggests Thirsk, Northallerton or Richmond \u2013 and does not include cities like Manchester and Leeds, nor the majority of Yorkshire. Northern England is not a homogeneous unit, and some have entirely rejected the idea that the North exists as a coherent entity, claiming that considerable cultural differences across the area overwhelm any similarities.\nGeography and cities.\nThe Pennines, an upland range sometimes referred to as \"the backbone of England\" run through most of the area defined as northern England, which stretches from the Tyne Gap to the Peak District. Other uplands in the North include the Lake District with England's highest mountains, the Cheviot Hills adjoining the border with Scotland, and the North York Moors near the North Sea coastline. \nThe geography of the North has been heavily shaped by the ice sheets of the Pleistocene era, which often reached as far south as the Midlands. Glaciers carved deep, craggy valleys in the central uplands, and, when they melted, deposited large quantities of fluvio-glacial material in lowland areas like the Cheshire and Solway Plains. On the eastern side of the Pennines, a former glacial lake forms the Humberhead Levels: a large area of fenland which drains into the Humber and which is very fertile and productive farmland.\nMuch of the mountainous upland remains undeveloped, and of the ten national parks in England, five \u2013 the Peak District, the Lake District, the North York Moors, the Yorkshire Dales, and Northumberland National Park \u2013 are located partly or entirely in the North. The Lake District includes England's highest peak, Scafell Pike, which rises to , its largest lake, Windermere, and its deepest lake, Wastwater. Northern England is one of the most treeless areas in Europe, and to combat this the government plans to plant over 50 million trees in a new Northern Forest.\nUrban.\nUniquely for such a large urban belt in Europe, the major cities in this region are all as recent as the Industrial Revolution; its more historic cities such as Chester, Durham, Lancaster and York are now relatively small and insignificant economically. Vast urban areas have emerged along the coasts and rivers, and they run almost contiguously into each other in places. Near the east coast, trade fuelled the growth of major ports and settlements (Kingston upon Hull, Newcastle upon Tyne, Middlesbrough and Sunderland) to create multiple urban areas. Inland needs of trade and industry produced an almost continuous urbanisation from the Wirral Peninsula to Doncaster, taking in the cities of Liverpool, Manchester, Leeds, and Sheffield, with a population of at least 7.6 million.\nAnalysis by The Northern Way in 2006 found that 90% of the population of the North lived in and around: Liverpool, Central Lancashire, Manchester, Sheffield, Leeds, Hull and Humber Ports, Tees Valley and Tyne and Wear. At the 2011 census, 86% of the Northern population lived in urban areas as defined by the Office for National Statistics, compared to 82% for England as a whole.\nDue to differing definitions and city limits, the list of largest towns and cities may be misleading. For example while Manchester is ranked fourth as a city, the greater urban area it leads (Greater Manchester Built-up Area) is the largest in the region and larger than Leeds's urban area (West Yorkshire Built-up Area) despite Leeds being the largest as a sole city. The table below shows the urban areas in the region with a population of at least 250,000.\nNatural resources.\nPeat is found in thick, plentiful layers across the Pennines and Scottish Borders, and there are many large coalfields, including the Great Northern, Lancashire and South Yorkshire Coalfields. Millstone grit, a distinctive coarse-grained rock used to make millstones, is widespread in the Pennines, and the variety of other rock types is reflected in the architecture of the region, such as the bright red sandstone seen in buildings in Chester, the cream-buff Yorkstone and the distinctive purple Doddington sandstone. These sandstones also mean that apart from the east coast, most of Northern England has very soft water, and this has influenced not just industry, but even the blends of tea enjoyed in the region.\nRich deposits of iron ore are found in Cumbria and the North East, and fluorspar and baryte are also plentiful in northern parts of the Pennines. Salt mining in Cheshire has a long history, and both remaining rock salt mines in Great Britain are in the North: Winsford Mine in Cheshire and Boulby Mine in North Yorkshire, which also produces half of the UK's potash.\nClimate.\nNorthern England has a cool, wet oceanic climate with small areas of subpolar oceanic climate in the uplands. Averaged across the entire region, Northern England temperature range and sunshine duration is similar to the UK average and it sees substantially less rainfall than Scotland or Wales. It is cooler, wetter and cloudier than England as a whole, containing both England's coldest (Cross Fell) and rainiest point (Seathwaite Fell). These averages disguise considerable variation across the region, due chiefly to the upland regions and adjacent seas.\nThe prevailing winds across the British Isles are westerlies bringing moisture from the Atlantic; this means that the west coast frequently receives strong winds and heavy rainfall while the east coast lies in a rain shadow behind the Pennines. As a result, the coastal area north of the Humber is one the driest parts of England: the Tees basin on the east coast has of rain per year while parts of the Lake District on the west coast receive over . Lowland regions in the more southern parts of Northern England (such as Cheshire and South Yorkshire) are the warmest with average maximum July temperatures of over : the highest points in the Pennines and Lake District reach only . The North has a reputation for cloud and fog, with less sunshine than Southern England, and the east coast experiences a distinctive fog called sea fret. Smog in urban areas was prevalent from the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, but sunshine duration has increased in urban areas in recent years with the Clean Air Act 1956 and decline of heavy industry.\nLanguage and dialect.\nEnglish.\nDialect.\nThe English spoken today in the North has been shaped by the area's history, and some dialects retain features inherited from Old Norse and the local Celtic languages. They are a dialectal continuum, middle areas that have a crossover between varieties spoken, around the North. Traditional dialectal areas are defined by their historic county or combined historic counties; including Cumbrian (Cumberland and Westmorland), Lancastrian (Lancashire), Northumbrian (Northumberland and Durham) and Tyke (Yorkshire). During the Industrial Revolution urban areas gained some or further distinction from traditional dialects; such as areas Mackem (Wearside), Mancunian (Manchester), Pitmatic (Great Northern Coalfield), Geordie (Tyneside), Smoggie (Teesside), Scouse (Liverpool) and around Hull. \nLinguists have attempted to define a Northern dialect area, some correspond the area north of a line that begins at the Humber estuary and runs up the River Wharfe and across to the River Lune in north Lancashire. This area corresponds roughly to the \"sprachraum\" of the Old English Northumbrian dialect, although the linguistic elements that defined this area in the past, such as the use of \"doon\" instead of \"down\" and substitution of an \"ang\" sound in words that end -\"ong\" (\"lang\" instead of \"long\"), are now prevalent only in the more northern parts of the region. As speech has changed, there is little consensus on what defines a \"Northern\" accent or dialect.\nNorthern English accents have not undergone the \u2013 split, and a common shibboleth to distinguish them from Southern ones is the Northern use of the short a (the near-open front unrounded vowel) in words such as \"bath\" and \"castle\". On the opposite border, most Northern English accents can be distinguished from Scottish accents because they are non-rhotic, although some Lancashire and Northumberland accents remain rhotic. Other features common to many Northern English accents are the absence of the \u2013 split (so \"put\" and \"putt\" are homophones), the reduction of the definite article \"the\" to a glottal stop (usually represented in writing as \"t\" or occasionally \"th\", although it is often not pronounced as a /t/ sound) or its total elision, and the T-to-R rule that leads to the pronunciation of \"t\" as a rhotic consonant in phrases like \"get up\" ().\nThe pronouns \"thou\" and \"thee\" survive in some Northern English dialects, although these are dying out outside very rural areas, and many dialects have an informal second-person plural pronoun: either \"ye\" (common in the North East) or \"yous\" (common in areas with historical Irish communities). Many dialects use \"me\" as a possessive (\"me car\") and some treat \"us\" likewise (\"us cars\") or use the alternative \"wor\" (\"wor cars\"). Possessive pronouns are also used to mark the names of relatives in speech (for example, a relative called Joan would be referred to as \"our Joan\" in conversation).\nWith urbanisation, distinctive urban accents have arisen which often differ greatly from the historical accents of the surrounding rural areas and sometimes share features with Southern English accents. Northern English dialects remain an important part of the culture of the region, and the desire of speakers to assert their local identity has led to accents such as Scouse and Geordie becoming more distinctive and spreading into surrounding areas.\nLiterature.\nThe contrasting geography of Northern England is reflected in its literature. On the one hand, the wild moors and lakes have inspired generations of Romantic authors: the poetry of William Wordsworth and the novels of the Bront\u00eb sisters are perhaps the most famous examples of writing inspired by these elemental forces. Classics of children's literature such as \"The Railway Children\" (1906), \"The Secret Garden\" (1911) and \"Swallows and Amazons\" (1930) portray these largely untouched landscapes as worlds of adventure and transformation where their protagonists can break free of the restrictions of society. Modern poets such as the Poets Laureate Ted Hughes and Simon Armitage have found inspiration in the Northern countryside, producing works that take advantage of the sounds and rhythms of Northern English dialects.\nMeanwhile, the industrialising and urbanising cities of the North gave rise to many masterpieces of social realism. Elizabeth Gaskell was the first in a lineage of female realist writers from the North that later included Winifred Holtby, Catherine Cookson, Beryl Bainbridge and Jeanette Winterson. Many of the angry young men of post-war literature were Northern, and working-class life in the face of deindustrialisation is depicted in novels such as \"Room at the Top\" (1959), \"Billy Liar\" (1959), \"This Sporting Life\" (1960) and \"A Kestrel for a Knave\" (1968).\nOther languages.\nThere are no recognised minority languages in Northern England, although the Northumbrian Language Society campaigns to have the Northumbrian dialect recognised as a separate language. It is possible that traces of now-extinct Brythonic Celtic languages from the region survive in some rural areas in the Yan Tan Tethera counting systems traditionally used by shepherds.\nContact between English and immigrant languages has given rise to new accents and dialects. For instance, the variety of English spoken by Poles in Manchester is distinct both from typical Polish-accented English and from Mancunian. At a local level, the diversity of immigrant communities means that some languages that are extremely rare in the country as a whole have strongholds in Northern towns: Bradford for instance has the largest proportion of Pashto speakers, while Manchester has most Cantonese speakers.\nHistory.\nThe prehistoric North.\nDuring the ice ages, Northern England was buried under ice sheets, and little evidence remains of habitation \u2013 either because the climate made the area uninhabitable, or because glaciation destroyed most evidence of human activity. The northernmost cave art in Europe is found at Creswell Crags in northern Derbyshire, near modern-day Sheffield, which shows signs of Neanderthal inhabitation 50 to 60 thousand years ago, and of a more modern occupation known as the Creswellian culture around 12,000 years ago. Kirkwell Cave in Lower Allithwaite, Cumbria shows signs of the Federmesser culture of the Paleolithic, and was inhabited some time between 13,400 and 12,800 years ago.\nSignificant settlement appears to have begun in the Mesolithic era, with Star Carr in North Yorkshire generally considered the most significant monument of this era. The Star Carr site includes Britain's oldest known house, from around 9000 BC, and the earliest evidence of carpentry in the form of a carved tree trunk from 11000 BC.\nThe Lincolnshire and Yorkshire Wolds around the Humber Estuary were settled and farmed in the Bronze Age, and the Ferriby Boats \u2013 one of the best-preserved finds of the era \u2013 were discovered near Hull in 1937. In the more mountainous regions of the Peak District, hillforts were the main Bronze Age settlement and the locals were most likely pastoralists raising livestock.\nIron Age and the Romans.\nRoman histories name the Celtic tribe that occupied the majority of Northern England as the Brigantes, likely meaning \"Highlanders\". Whether the Brigantes were a unified group or a looser federation of tribes around the Pennines is debated, but the name appears to have been adopted by the inhabitants of the region, which was known by the Romans as Brigantia. Other tribes mentioned in ancient histories, which may have been part of the Brigantes or separate nations, are the Carvetii of modern-day Cumbria and the Parisi of east Yorkshire.\nThe Brigantes allied with the Roman Empire during the Roman conquest of Britain: Tacitus records that they handed the resistance leader Caratacus over to the Empire in 51. Power struggles within the Brigantes made the Romans wary, and they were conquered in a war beginning in the 70s under the governorship of Quintus Petillius Cerialis. The Romans created the province of \"Britannia Inferior\" (Lower Britain) in the North, and it was ruled from the city of Eboracum (modern York). Eboracum and Deva Victrix (modern Chester) were the main legionary bases in the region, with other smaller forts including Mamucium (Manchester) and Cataractonium (Catterick). Britannia Inferior extended as far north as Hadrian's Wall, which was the northernmost border of the Roman Empire. Although the Romans invaded modern-day Northumberland and part of Scotland beyond it, they never succeeded in conquering the reaches of Britain beyond the River Tyne.\nAnglo-Saxons and Vikings.\nAfter the end of Roman rule in Britain and the arrival of the Angles, Yr Hen Ogledd (the \"Old North\") was divided into rival kingdoms, Bernicia, Deira, Rheged and Elmet. Bernicia covered lands north of the Tees, Deira corresponded roughly to the eastern half of modern-day Yorkshire, Rheged to Cumbria, and Elmet to the western-half of Yorkshire. Bernicia and Deira were first united as Northumbria by Aethelfrith, a king of Bernicia who conquered Deira around the year 604. Northumbria then saw a Golden Age in cultural, scholarly and monastic activity, centred on Lindisfarne and aided by Irish monks. The north-west of England retained vestiges of a Celtic culture, and had its own Celtic language, Cumbric, spoken predominately in Cumbria until around the 12th century.\nParts of the north and east of England were subject to Danish control (the Danelaw) during the Viking Age, but the northern part of the old Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Northumbria remained under Anglo-Saxon control. Under the Vikings, monasteries were largely wiped out, and the discovery of grave goods in Northern churchyards suggests that Norse funeral rites replaced Christian ones for a time. Viking control of certain areas, particularly around Yorkshire, is recalled in the etymology of many place names: the \"thorpe\" in town names such as Cleethorpes and Scunthorpe, the \"kirk\" in Kirklees and Ormskirk and the \"by\" of Whitby and Grimsby all have Norse roots.\nNorman Conquest and the Middle Ages.\nThe 1066 defeat of the Norwegian king Harald Hardrada by the Anglo-Saxon Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Stamford Bridge near York marked the beginning of the end of Viking rule in England, and the almost immediate defeat of Godwinson at the hands of the Norman William the Conqueror at the Battle of Hastings was in turn the overthrow of the Anglo-Saxon order. The Northumbrian and Danish aristocracy resisted the Norman Conquest, and to put an end to the rebellion, William ordered the Harrying of the North. In the winter of 1069\u20131070, towns, villages and farms were systematically destroyed across much of Yorkshire as well as northern Lancashire and County Durham. The region was gripped by famine and much of Northern England was deserted. Chroniclers at the time reported a hundred thousand deaths \u2013 modern estimates place the total somewhere in the tens of thousands, out of a population of two million. When the Domesday Book was compiled in 1086, much of Northern England was still recorded as wasteland, although this may have been in part because the chroniclers, more interested in manorial farmland, paid little attention to pastoral areas.\nFollowing Norman subjugation, monasteries returned to the North as missionaries sought to \"settle the desert\". Monastic orders such as the Cistercians became significant players in the economy of Northern England \u2013 the Cistercian Fountains Abbey in North Yorkshire became the largest and richest of the Northern abbeys, and would remain so until the Dissolution of the Monasteries. Other Cistercian abbeys are at Rievaulx, Kirkstall and Byland. The 7th-century Whitby Abbey was Benedictine and Bolton Abbey, Augustinian. A significant Flemish immigration followed the conquest, which likely populated much of the desolated regions of Cumbria, and which was persistent enough that the town of Beverley in the East Riding of Yorkshire still had an ethnic enclave called Flemingate in the thirteenth century.\nDuring the Anarchy, Scotland invaded Northern England and took much of the land north of the Tees. In the 1139 peace treaty that followed, Prince Henry of Scotland was made Earl of Northumberland and kept the counties of Cumberland, Westmorland and Northumbria, as well as part of Lancashire. These reverted to English control in 1157, establishing for the most part the modern England\u2013Scotland border. The region also saw violence during The Great Raid of 1322 when Robert the Bruce invaded and raided the whole of Northern England. There was also the Wars of the Roses, including the decisive Battle of Wakefield, although the modern-day conception of the war as a conflict between Lancashire and Yorkshire is anachronistic \u2013 Lancastrians recruited from across Northern England, including Yorkshire, even requiring mercenaries from Scotland and France, while the Yorkists drew most of their power from Southern England, Wales and Ireland. The Anglo-Scottish Wars also touched the region, and in just 400 years, Berwick-upon-Tweed \u2013 now the northernmost town in England \u2013 changed hands more than a dozen times. The wars also saw thousands of Scots settle south of the border, chiefly in the border counties and Yorkshire.\nEarly modern era.\nAfter the English Reformation, the North saw several Catholic uprisings, including the , Bigod's Rebellion in Cumberland and Westmorland, and largest of all, the Yorkshire-based Pilgrimage of Grace, all against Henry VIII. His daughter Elizabeth I faced another Catholic rebellion, the Rising of the North. The region would become the centre of recusancy as prominent Catholic families in Cumbria, Lancashire and Yorkshire refused to convert to Protestantism. Royal power over the region was exercised through the Council of the North at King's Manor, York, which was founded in 1484 by Richard III. The Council existed intermittently for the next two centuries \u2013 its final incarnation was created in the aftermath of the Pilgrimage of Grace and was chiefly an institution for providing order and dispensing justice.\nNorthern England was a focal point for fighting during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms. The border counties were invaded by Scotland in the Second Bishops' War, and at the 1640 Treaty of Ripon King Charles I was forced to temporarily cede Northumberland and County Durham to the Scots and pay to keep the Scottish armies there. To raise enough funds and ratify the final peace treaty, Charles had to call what became the Long Parliament, beginning the process that led to the First English Civil War. In 1641, the Long Parliament abolished the Council of the North for perceived abuses during the Personal Rule period. By the time war broke out in 1642, King Charles had moved his court to York, and Northern England was to become a major base of the Royalist forces until they were routed at the Battle of Marston Moor.\nIndustrial Revolution.\nAt the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, Northern England had plentiful coal and water power while the poor agriculture in the uplands meant that labour in the area was cheap. Mining and milling, which had been practised on a small scale in the area for generations, began to grow and centralise. The boom in industrial textile manufacture is sometimes attributed to the damp climate and soft water making it easier to wash and work fibres, although the success of Northern fabric mills has no single clear source. Readily available coal and the discovery of large iron deposits in Cumbria and Cleveland allowed ironmaking and, with the invention of the Bessemer process, steelmaking to take root in the region. High quality steel in turn fed the shipyards that opened along the coasts, especially on Tyneside and at Barrow-in-Furness.\nThe Great Famine in Ireland of the 1840s drove migrants across the Irish Sea, and many settled in the industrial cities of the North, especially Manchester and Liverpool \u2013 at the 1851 census, 13% of the population of Manchester and Salford were Irish-born, and in Liverpool the figure was 22%. In response there was a wave of anti-Catholic riots and Protestant Orange Orders proliferated across Northern England, chiefly in Lancashire, but also elsewhere in the North. By 1881 there were 374 Orange organisations in Lancashire, 71 in the North East, and 42 in Yorkshire. From further afield, Northern England saw immigration from European countries such as Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Scandinavia. Some immigrants were well-to-do industrialists seeking to do business in the booming industrial cities, some were escaping poverty, some were servants or slaves, some were sailors who chose to settle in the port towns, some were Jews fleeing pogroms on the continent, and some were migrants originally stranded at Liverpool after attempting to catch an onwards ship to the United States or to colonies of the British Empire. At the same time, hundreds of thousands from depressed rural areas of the North emigrated, chiefly to the US, Canada, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.\nDeindustrialisation and modern history.\nThe First World War was the turning point for the economy of Northern England. In the interwar years, the Northern economy began to be eclipsed by the South \u2013 in 1913\u20131914, unemployment in \"outer Britain\" (the North, plus Scotland and Wales) was 2.6% while the rate in Southern England was more than double that at 5.5%, but in 1937 during the Great Depression the outer British unemployment rate was 16.1% and the Southern rate was less than half that at 7.1%. The weakening economy and interwar unemployment caused several episodes of social unrest in the region, including the 1926 general strike and the Jarrow March. The Great Depression highlighted the weakness of Northern England's specialised economy: as world trade declined, demand for ships, steel, coal and textiles all fell. For the most part, Northern factories were still using nineteenth-century technology, and were not able to keep up with advances in industries such as motors, chemicals and electricals, while the expansion of the electric grid removed the North's advantages in terms of power generation and meant it was now more economic to build new factories in the Midlands or South.\nThe industrial concentration in Northern England made it a major target for Luftwaffe attacks during the Second World War. The Blitz of 1940\u20131941 saw major raids on Barrow-in-Furness, Hull, Leeds, Manchester, Merseyside, Newcastle and Sheffield with thousands killed and significant damage done. Liverpool, a vital port for supplies from North America, was especially hard hit \u2013 the city was the most bombed in the UK outside London and Hull, with around 4,000 deaths across Merseyside and most of the city centre destroyed. Hull, the worst bombed city outside of London suffered damage to 98% of all buildings, the highest percentage of any town or city. The rebuilding that followed, and the simultaneous slum clearance that saw whole neighbourhoods demolished and rebuilt, transformed the faces of Northern cities. Immigration from the \"New Commonwealth\", especially Pakistan and Bangladesh, starting in the 1950s reshaped Northern England once more, and there are now significant populations from the Indian subcontinent in towns and cities such as Bradford, Leeds, Preston and Sheffield.\nDeindustrialisation continued and unemployment gradually increased during the 1970s, but accelerated during the government of Margaret Thatcher, who chose not to encourage growth in the North if it risked growth in the South. The era saw the 1984\u201385 miners' strike, which brought hardship for many Northern mining towns. Northern metropolitan county councils, which were Labour strongholds often with very left-wing leadership (such as Militant-dominated Liverpool and the so-called \"People's Republic of South Yorkshire\"), had high-profile conflicts with the national government. The increasing awareness of the North\u2013South divide strengthened the distinct Northern English identity, which, despite regeneration in some of the major cities, remains to this day.\nThe region saw several IRA attacks during the Troubles, including the M62 coach bombing, the Warrington bomb attacks and the 1992 and 1996 Manchester bombings. The latter was the largest bomb detonation in Great Britain since the end of the Second World War, and damaged or destroyed much of central Manchester. The attack led to Manchester's ageing infrastructure being rebuilt and modernised, sparking the regeneration of the city and making it a leading example of post-industrial redevelopment followed by other cities in the region and beyond.\nDemographics.\nAt the 2021 census, Northern England had a population of 15,550,000, in 6,659,700 households. This is an increase from the 14,933,000 (and 6,364,000 households) counted in the 2011 census, and itself a growth of 5.1% from 2001. This means that Northerners comprise 28% of the English population and 24% of the UK population.\nTaken overall, 8% of the population of Northern England were born overseas (3% from the European Union including Ireland and 5% from elsewhere), substantially less than the England and Wales average of 13%, and 5% define their nationality as something other than a UK or Irish identity. 90.5% of the population described themselves as white, compared to an England and Wales average of 85.9%; other ethnicities represented include Pakistani (2.9%), Indian (1.3%), Black (1.3%), Chinese (0.6%) and Bangladeshi (0.5%). The broad averages hide significant variation within the region: Allerdale and Redcar and Cleveland had a greater percentage of the population identifying as White British (97.6% each) than any other district in England and Wales, while Manchester (66.5%), Bradford (67.4%) and Blackburn with Darwen (69.1%) had among the lowest proportions of White British outside London.\nLanguages.\n95% of the Northern population speak English as a first language \u2013 compared to an England and Wales average of 92% \u2013 and another 4% speak English as a second language well or very well. The 5% of the population who have another native language are chiefly speakers of European or South Asian languages. At the 2011 census, the largest languages apart from English were Polish (spoken by 0.7% of the population), Urdu (0.6%) and Punjabi (0.5%), and 0.4% of the population speak a variety of Chinese: a similar distribution to that in the whole of England. Redcar and Cleveland has the largest proportion of the population speaking English as a first language in England, with 99.3%.\nReligion.\nAt the 2011 census, the North East and North West had the largest proportion of Christians in England and Wales; 67.5% and 67.3% respectively (the proportion in Yorkshire and the Humber was lower at 59.5%). Yorkshire and the Humber and the North West both had significant populations of Muslims \u2013 6.2% and 5.1% respectively \u2013 while Muslims in the North East made up only 1.8% of the population. All other faiths combined comprised less than 2% of the population in all regions.\nThe census question on religion has been criticised by the British Humanist Association as leading, and other surveys of religion tend to find very different results. The 2015 British Election Survey found 52% of Northerners identified as Christian (22% Anglican, 14% non-denominational Christian, 12% Roman Catholic, 2% Methodist, and 2% other Christian denominations), 40% as non-religious, 5% as Muslim, 1% as Hindu and 1% as Jewish.\nHealth.\nOne major manifestation of the North\u2013South divide is in health and life expectancy statistics. All three Northern England statistical regions have lower than average life expectancies and higher than average rates of cancer, circulatory disease, respiratory disease and obesity. Blackpool has the lowest life expectancy at birth in England \u2013 male life expectancy at birth between 2012 and 2014 was 74.7, against an England-wide average of 79.5 \u2013 and the majority of English districts in the bottom 50 were in the North East or the North West. However, regional differences do seem to be slowly narrowing: between 1991 and 1993 and 2012\u20132014, life expectancy in the North East increased by 6.0 years and in the North West by 5.8 years, the fastest increases in any region outside London, and the gap between life expectancy in the North East and South East is now 2.5 years, down from 2.9 in 1993.\nThese health inequalities manifested during the COVID-19 pandemic in high infection rates, death rates and excess mortality in Northern England, and in severe job losses in the following Great Lockdown recession. By June 2020, the infection rate in Northern England was nearly double that in London, and a study by the Northern Health Science Alliance found that of the six worst affected areas in England during the pandemic in their study, five were located in the North.\nEducation.\nBefore the 19th century, there were no universities in Northern England. The first was the University of Durham, founded in 1832. The next universities built in the North were part of the wave of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, with Durham being joined by five redbrick university institutions (all in the Russell Group of leading research universities): Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield. These six, plus the plateglass universities of York (also in the Russell Group) and Lancaster, form the N8 Research Partnership. The universities of Central Lancashire, Salford and Teesside are part of the University Alliance. Other universities in the North include Bolton, Bradford, Chester, Cumbria, Edge Hill, Huddersfield, Hull, Leeds Trinity, Leeds Arts, Liverpool Hope, Liverpool John Moores, Manchester Metropolitan, Northumbria, Sheffield Hallam, Sunderland and York St John.\nThere is a significant attainment gap between Northern and Southern schools, and pupils in the three regions are less likely than the national average to achieve five higher-tier GCSEs, although this may be down to economic disadvantages faced by Northern pupils rather than a difference in school quality. Northern students are under-represented at Oxbridge, where three times as many places go to southerners as to northerners, and at other Southern universities; while southerners are under-represented at leading Northern universities such as Sheffield, Manchester and Leeds. There are calls for the government to invest in education in disadvantaged parts of Northern England to redress the disparities in educational attainment and university admissions between north and south.\nEconomy.\nLike the UK as a whole, the Northern English economy is now dominated by the service sector \u2013 in September 2016, 82.2% of workers in the Northern statistical regions were employed in services, compared to 83.7% for the UK as a whole. Manufacturing now employs 9.5%, compared to the national average of 7.6%. The unemployment rate in Northern England is 5.3% compared to an England-wide and UK-wide average of 4.8%, and the North East has the highest unemployment rate in the UK, at 7.0% in December 2016, more than one percentage point higher than any other region. In 2015, the gross value added (GVA) of the Northern English economy was \u00a3316 billion, and if it were an independent nation, it would be the tenth largest economy in Europe. The region does have poor growth and productivity rates compared to Southern England and to other EU countries.\nGrowth, employment and household income have lagged behind the South, and the five most deprived districts in England are all in Northern England, as are ten of the twelve most declining major towns in the UK. The picture is not clear-cut, as the North has areas which are as wealthy as, if not wealthier than, fashionable Southern areas such as Surrey. Yorkshire's Golden Triangle which extends from north Leeds to Harrogate and across to York is an example, as is Cheshire's Golden Triangle, centred on Alderley Edge. There are major disparities even across individual cities: Sheffield Hallam is one of the wealthiest constituencies in the country, and is the richest outside London and the South East, while Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough, just on the other side of the city, is one of the most deprived. Housing in Northern England is more affordable than the UK average: the median house price in most Northern cities was below \u00a3200,000 in 2015 with typical increases of below 10% over the previous five years. However, some areas have seen house prices fall considerably, putting inhabitants at risk of negative equity.\nThe decline of coal mining and manufacturing in Northern England has led to comparisons with the Rust Belt in the United States. To stimulate the Northern economy, the government has organised a series of programmes to invest in and develop the region, of which the latest as of 2017 is the Northern Powerhouse. The North has also been a significant recipient of European Union Structural Funds. Between 2007 and 2013, EU funds created around 70,000 jobs in the region, and the majority of Northern Powerhouse funding comes from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Investment Bank. The loss of these funds following Brexit, combined with potential reductions in exports to the EU, has been identified as a threat to Northern growth.\nPublic sector.\nThe public sector is a major employer in Northern England. Between 2000 and 2008, the majority of new jobs created in Northern England were for the government and its suppliers and contractors. All three Northern regions have public sector employment above the national average, and North East has the highest level in England with 20.2% of the workforce in the public sector as of 2016 \u2013 down from 23.4% a decade earlier. The austerity programme under the government of David Cameron saw significant cuts to public services, and the reduction in public sector employment resulted in job losses for around 3% of the Northern England workforce with significant impact on the regional economy.\nAgriculture and fisheries.\nThere are of farmland in Northern England. The rough Pennine terrain means that most of Northern England is unsuited for growing crops; like Scotland, Northern farming was traditionally dominated by oats, which grow better than wheat in poor soil. Today, the mix of cereals and vegetables grown is similar to that of the UK as a whole, but only a minority of land is arable. Only 32% of Northern farmland is primarily used for growing crops, compared to 49% for England as a whole. Conversely, 57% of the land is given over to rearing livestock, and 33% of England's cattle, 43% of its pigs and 46% of its sheep and lambs are reared in the North.\nThe only part of the region that is predominantly given over to crops is the land around the Humber estuary, where the well-drained fens result in excellent quality land. The lowland Cheshire Plain is mostly given over to dairy farming, while in the Pennines and Cheviots grazing sheep play an important role not just in agriculture but also in land management more generally. Heather moorland in the Pennine uplands is home to driven grouse shooting from 12 August (the Glorious Twelfth) until 10 December every year. The number of grouse moors in Northern England is a major threat to natural predators, which are often killed by gamekeepers to protect grouse, and as a result, the Cumbria Wildlife Trust describes the North's moors as a \"black hole\" for the endangered hen harrier.\nSea fishing is an important industry for Northern coastal towns. Major fishing ports include Fleetwood, Grimsby, Hull and Whitby. At its height, Grimsby was the largest fishing port in the world, but the Northern fishing industry suffered greatly from a series of events in the second half of the twentieth century: the Cod Wars with Iceland and establishment of the exclusive economic zone ended British access to rich North Atlantic fishing grounds, while the North Sea was badly overfished and the European Common Fisheries Policy put strict quotas on catches to protect the almost depleted stocks. Grimsby is now transitioning to the processing of imported seafood and to offshore wind to replace its fishing fleet.\nManufacturing and energy.\nNorthern England has a strong export-based economy, with trade more balanced than the UK average, and the North East is the only region of England to regularly export more than it imports. Chemicals, vehicles, machinery and other manufactured goods make up the majority of Northern exports, just over half of which go to EU countries. Major manufacturing plants include car plants at Vauxhall Ellesmere Port, Jaguar Land Rover Halewood and Nissan Sunderland, the Leyland Trucks factory, the Hitachi Newton Aycliffe train plant, the Humber, Lindsey and Stanlow oil refineries, the NEPIC cluster of chemical works based around Teesside, and the nuclear processing facilities at Springfields and Sellafield.\nOffshore oil and gas from North Sea and Irish Sea, and more recently offshore wind power, are significant components in Northern England's energy mix. Although deep-pit coal mining in the UK ended in 2015 with the closure of Kellingley Colliery, North Yorkshire, there are still several open-pit mines in the area. Shale gas is especially prevalent across Northern England, although plans to extract it through hydraulic fracturing (\"fracking\") have proven to be controversial.\nRetail and services.\nAround 10% of the Northern England workforce is employed in retail. Of the Big Four supermarkets in the UK, two \u2013 Asda and Morrisons \u2013 are based in the North. Northern England was the birthplace of the modern cooperative movement, and the Manchester-based Co-operative Group has the highest revenue of any firm in the North West. The area is also home to many online retailers, with startups emerging around tech hubs in Northern cities.\nWith urban regeneration, high-value service sector industries such as corporate services and financial services have taken root in Northern England, with major hubs around Leeds and Manchester. Call centres \u2013 attracted by low labour costs and a preference for Northern English accents among the public \u2013 have replaced heavy industry as major employers of unskilled workers, with more than 5% of workers in all Northern England regions working in one.\nHigh-tech and research.\nTogether, the N8 research universities have over 190,000 students and contribute more to the Northern economy in terms of GVA than agriculture, car manufacturing or media. Discoveries and inventions at these universities have resulted in spin-offs worth hundreds of millions to local economies: the discovery of graphene at the University of Manchester produced the National Graphene Institute and the Sir Henry Royce Institute for Advanced Materials, while robotics research at the University of Sheffield led to the development of the Advanced Manufacturing Park.\nRecent decades have seen the growth of high-tech companies based around Northern England's major cities. There are eleven high-tech firms worth over $1 billion based in the region, and digital industries support around 300,000 jobs. Game development, online retail, health technology and analytics are among the major high-tech sectors in the North.\nLeisure and tourism.\nThe expansion of the railway network in the second half of the nineteenth century meant most in the North lived within reach of the coast, and seaside towns saw a major tourism boom. By around 1870 Blackpool on the Lancashire coast had become overwhelmingly the most popular destination \u2013 not just for Northern families, but many from the Midlands and Scotland as well. Other resorts popular with Northerners included Morecambe in northern Lancashire, Whitley Bay near Newcastle, Whitby in North Yorkshire, and New Brighton on the Wirral Peninsula, as well as Rhyl over the border in North Wales.\nThe same social forces that had built these resorts in the nineteenth century proved to be their undoing in the twentieth. Transport links continued to improve and it became possible to travel overseas quickly and affordably. The Belgian coast at Ostend became popular with Northern working-class tourists in the first half of the twentieth century, and the introduction of package holidays in the 1970s was the death of most Northern seaside resorts. Blackpool has maintained a focus on tourism, and remains one of the most visited towns in England, but visitor numbers are far below their peak and the town's economy has suffered \u2013 both employment rates and average earnings remain below the regional average.\nThe wild landscapes of the North are a major draw for tourists, and many urban areas are looking for regeneration through industrial, heritage and cultural tourism: of the 24 national museums and galleries in England outside London, 14 are located in the North. In 2015, Northern England received around a quarter of all domestic tourism within the UK, with 28.7 million visitors in 2015, but only 8% of international tourists to the United Kingdom visit the region.\nTelecommunications.\nManchester Network Access Point is the only internet exchange point in the UK outside London, and forms the main hub for the region. Household internet access in Northern England is at or above the UK average, but speeds and broadband penetration vary greatly. In 2013 the average speed in central Manchester was 60\u00a0Mbit/s, while in nearby Warrington the average speed was only 6.2\u00a0Mbit/s. Hull, which is unique in the UK in that its telephone network was never nationalised, has simultaneously some of the fastest and slowest internet speeds in the country: many households have \"ultrafast\" fibre optic broadband as standard, but it is also one of only two places in the UK where over 30% of businesses receive less than 10\u00a0Mbit/s. Speeds are especially poor in the rural parts of the North, with many small towns and villages completely without high speed access. Some areas have therefore formed their own community enterprises, such as Broadband 4 Rural North in Lancashire and Cybermoor in Cumbria, to install high-speed internet connections. Mobile broadband coverage is similarly patchy, with 3G and 4G almost universal in cities but unavailable in large parts of Yorkshire, the North East and Cumbria.\nMedia.\nTelevision.\nAs part of a drive to reduce media centralisation in London, the BBC and ITV have moved much of their programme production to MediaCityUK in Salford and Channel 4 has moved its headquarters to Leeds. Of the four national evening soap operas, three are set and filmed in Northern England (\"Coronation Street\" in Manchester, \"Emmerdale\" in the Yorkshire Dales and \"Hollyoaks\" in Liverpool but set in Chester) and these are important to the local TV industry \u2013 the commitment to \"Emmerdale\" saved ITV Yorkshire's Leeds Studios from closure. The region also has a reputation for drama serials and has produced some the most successful and acclaimed series of recent decades, including \"Boys from the Blackstuff\", \"Our Friends in the North\", \"Clocking Off\", \"Shameless\", \"Waterloo Road\" and \"Last Tango in Halifax\".\nNewspapers.\nSince \"The Guardian\" (formerly \"The Manchester Guardian\") moved to London in 1964, no major national paper is based in the North, and Northern news stories tend to be poorly covered in the national press. \"The Yorkshire Post\" promotes itself as \"Yorkshire's national paper\" and covers some national and international stories, but is primarily focused on news from Yorkshire and the North East. An attempt in 2016 to create a dedicated North-focused national newspaper, \"24\", failed after six weeks. Across Northern England as a whole, \"The Sun\" is the best selling newspaper, but the ongoing boycott around Merseyside following the newspaper's coverage of the 1989 Hillsborough disaster has seen the paper fall behind both the \"Daily Mail\" and the \"Daily Mirror\" in the North West. In general national readership in the North drags behind that of the South; the \"Mirror\" and the \"Daily Star\" are the only national papers with more readers in Northern England than in the South East and London. Local newspapers are the top-selling titles in both the North East and Yorkshire and the Humber, although Northern regional newspapers have seen steep declines in readership in recent years. Only seven daily Northern papers had circulation figures above 25,000 in June 2016: \"Manchester Evening News\", \"Liverpool Echo\", \"Hull Daily Mail\", \"Newcastle Chronicle\", \"The Yorkshire Post\" and \"The Northern Echo\".\nCulture and identity.\nThe individual regions of the North have had their own identities and cultures for centuries, but with industrialisation, mass media and the opening of the North\u2013South divide, a common Northern identity began to develop. This identity was initially a reactionary response to Southern prejudices\u2014the North of the nineteenth century was largely depicted as a dirty, wild and uncultured place, even in sympathetic depictions such as Elizabeth Gaskell's 1855 novel \"North and South\"\u2014but became an affirmation of what Northerners saw as their own personal strengths. \nTraits stereotypically associated with Northern England are straight-talking, grit and warmheartedness, as compared to the supposedly effete Southerners. Northern England\u2014especially Lancashire, but also Yorkshire and the North East\u2014has a tradition of matriarchal families, where the woman of the house runs the home and controls the family's finances. This too has its roots in industrialisation, when mills offered well-paid work for women: during depressions when demand for coal and steel were low, women were often the main breadwinners. Northern women are still stereotyped as strong-willed and independent, or affectionately as battle-axes.\n\"It's grim up north\".\nThe phrase \"it's grim up north\" is associated with coal mining, industrial mills, weather and the way of life in the north of England during the Victorian and post World War I eras, when mills, coal mining, child labour and slums were common. The phrase is often used by those who are not from the north of England, who paint the north as being different to the south of England. The current Mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham, has quoted the north as being grim, but not a bad thing. The phrase was quoted in 1991 when the band The Justified Ancients of Mu Mu a.k.a. The KLF used it in relation to a lot of places in the north of England including Cheshire, Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Merseyside and Yorkshire. As well as parts of the East Midlands Region and Cumbria and they use the phrase repeatedly in their song of the same name.\nClothing.\nThe North of England is often stereotypically represented through the clothing worn by working-class men and women in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Working men would wear a heavy jacket and trousers held up by braces, an overcoat, and a hat, typically a flat cap, while women would wear a dress, or a skirt and blouse, with an apron on top as protection from dirt; in colder months they would often wear a shawl or headscarf. The maud, a woollen plaid woven in a pattern of small black and white checks, was also popular in Northern England until the early twentieth century.\nIf not wearing leather lace-up shoes, some men and women would have worn English clogs, which were hardwearing and had replaceable soles and tips. Factory workers tapping their feet in time with the click of machinery developed a type of folk clog dance referred to as \"clogging\", which was intricately developed in the North.\nIn the second half of the twentieth century, these traditional clothes fell out of fashion. Other styles such as \"casual clobber\" (mainland European designer clothing brought back by touring football fans) and sportswear became more popular, and the influence of Northern bands and football teams helped spread them across the country. In the twenty-first century, some traditional Northern items of clothing have begun to make a comeback \u2013 in particular, the flat cap.\nCuisine.\nImpressions of Northern English cuisine are still shaped by the working-class diet of the early twentieth century, which was heavy on offal, high in calories and often not particularly healthy. Dishes such as black pudding, tripe, mushy peas and meat pie remain stereotypical Northern English foods in the national imagination. As a result, there is a concerted effort among Northern chefs to improve the region's image. Some Northern dishes such as Yorkshire pudding and Lancashire hotpot have spread across the UK, and only their names now hint at their origin. Among the Northern delicacies that have achieved Protected Geographical Status are traditional Cumberland sausage, traditional Grimsby smoked fish, Swaledale cheese, Yorkshire forced rhubarb and Yorkshire Wensleydale.\nThe North is known for its often crumbly cheeses, of which Cheshire cheese is the earliest example. Unlike Southern cheeses like Cheddar, Northern cheeses typically use uncooked milk and a pre-salted curd pressed under enormous weights, resulting in a moist, sharp-tasting cheese. Wensleydale, another crumbly cheese, is unusual in that it is often served as a side to sweet cakes, which are themselves well represented in Northern England. Parkin, an oatmeal cake with black treacle and ginger, is a traditional treat across the North on Bonfire Night, and the fruity scone-like singing hinny and fat rascal are popular in the North East and Yorkshire respectively.\nWhile a variety of beers are popular across Northern England, the region is especially associated with brown ales such as Newcastle Brown Ale, Double Maxim and Samuel Smith Old Brewery's Nut Brown Ale. Beer in the North is usually served with a thick head which accentuates the nutty, malty flavours preferred in Northern beers. On the non-alcoholic side, the North \u2013 in particular, Lancashire \u2013 was the hub of the temperance bar movement which popularised soft drinks such as dandelion and burdock, Tizer and Vimto.\nAccording to \"The Tab\", the bakery chain Greggs is an integral part of Northern identity, using the number of people per Greggs as an indicator as to whether a town should be considered Northern.\nImmigration to Northern England has shaped its cuisine. The Teesside parmo is one example, derived from escalope Parmesan brought to the area by an Italian-American immigrant and adapted to the region's taste. There are large Chinatowns in Liverpool, Manchester and Newcastle, and communities from the Indian subcontinent in all major towns. Bradford has won the Federation of Specialist Restaurant's \"Curry Capital\" title six years in a row as of 2016, while the Curry Mile in Manchester formerly had the largest concentration of curry restaurants in the UK and now offers a wide range of South Asian and Middle Eastern cuisine.\nMusic.\nTraditional folk music in Northern England is a combination of styles of England and Scotland \u2013 what is now called the Anglo-Scottish border ballad was once prevalent as far south as Lancashire. In the early modern period, much of Northern folk was accompanied by bagpipes, with styles including the Pastoral pipes, Lancashire bagpipe, Yorkshire bagpipe and Northumbrian smallpipes. These disappeared in the early nineteenth century from the industrialising south of the region, but remain in the music of Northumbria. \nThe British brass band tradition began in Northern England at around the same time: the dismissal of the Cheshire, Lancashire and Yorkshire military bands after the Napoleonic Wars, combined with the desire of industrial communities to better themselves, led to the founding of civilian bands. These bands provided entertainment at community events and led protest marches during the era of radical agitation. Although the style has since spread across much of Great Britain, brass bands remain a stereotype of the North, and the Whit Friday brass band contests draw hundreds of bands from across the UK and further afield.\nNorthern England also has a thriving popular music scene. Influential movements include Merseybeat from the Liverpool area, which produced The Beatles, Northern soul, which brought Motown to England, and Madchester, the precursor to the rave scene. Across the Pennines, Sheffield is the birthplace of influential electronic pop bands from Cabaret Voltaire to Pulp, the New Yorkshire indie rock movement of the 2000s gave the country the Kaiser Chiefs and the Arctic Monkeys, and Teesside has a rock scene stretching from Chris Rea to Max\u00efmo Park. The press frequently frames music stories and reviews in terms of cultural and class differences between North and South, notably in the 1960s rivalry between the Beatles and the Rolling Stones and the 1990s Battle of Britpop between Oasis and Blur.\nSport.\nSport has been both one of the most unifying cultural forces in Northern England and, thanks to local rivalries such as the Lancashire\u2013Yorkshire Roses rivalry, one of the most divisive. As huge numbers of people moved into recently built cities with little cultural heritage, local sports teams offered the population a sense of place and identity that was otherwise absent.\nMany early Northern sports players were working class and needed to miss work to play, with their teams compensating them for lost wages. By contrast, Southern teams, drawing from the traditions of public schools and Oxbridge, put great emphasis on amateurism and the Southern-dominated governing bodies forbade payments to players. This tension shaped the sports of association football and cricket, and led to the schism between the two main forms of rugby. The North is also associated with the animal sports of dog racing with whippets, pigeon racing and ferret legging, although these are now far more popular in stereotype than in reality.\nManchester hosted the 2002 Commonwealth Games, which left it a legacy of sporting facilities including the City of Manchester Stadium, Manchester Aquatics Centre and the National Cycling Centre, headquarters of British Cycling. The Grand D\u00e9part for the 2014 Tour de France was in Leeds, and every year since Yorkshire has hosted the Tour de Yorkshire cycling event, part of the UCI Europe Tour. Tyneside meanwhile hosts the Great North Run, the UK's biggest mass-participation sporting event and the most popular half marathon in the world.\nAssociation football.\nThe first football club in the UK was Sheffield F.C., founded in 1857. Early Northern football teams tended to adopt the Sheffield Rules rather than the Football Association Rules, but the two codes were merged in 1877. Many of the innovations of Sheffield Rules are now part of the global game, including corners, throw-ins, and free kicks for fouls.\nIn 1883 Blackburn Olympic, a team composed mainly of factory workers, became the first Northern team to win the FA Cup, and the next year Preston North End won an FA Cup match against London-based Upton Park. Upton Park protested that Preston had broken FA rules by paying their players. In response, Preston withdrew from the competition and fellow Lancashire clubs Burnley and Great Lever followed suit. The protest gathered momentum to the point where more than 30 clubs, predominantly from the North, announced that they would set up a rival British Football Association if the FA did not permit professionalism. A schism was avoided in July 1885 when professionalism was formally legalised in English football. The Football League was founded in 1888, and marked its independence from the London-based Football Association (FA) by establishing headquarters in Preston \u2013 the League retained a Northern identity even after it accepted several Southern teams into its ranks. \nOrganised women's football followed as the workforces of majority-female factories of Northern England in the First World War entered the 1917\u201318 Tyne, Wear &amp; Tees Munition Girls Cup \u2013 the world's first women's football tournament. However, the FA did not support women's football and banned it altogether in 1921. Intense local derbies between neighbouring teams mean that there is less of a North\u2013South rivalry than in some other sports.\nMany of the powerhouses of English football came from the North \u2013 as of the 2024\u201325 season, of the 127 top-flight league titles since 1888, 87 (69%) have been won by teams based north of Crewe. Everton, Liverpool, Manchester United and Manchester City are among the mainstays of the Premier League, while teams like Blackburn Rovers, Middlesbrough, Newcastle United and Sunderland have had more inconsistent runs in recent years, regularly being promoted and relegated from the top flight. \nNorthern England is also the birthplace of the largest proportion the country's top players \u2013 as of Euro 2016, 537 Northerners had played for the England team, compared to 266 Midlanders and 367 Southerners, and 15 of the 23 man squad for the 2018 World Cup, as well as 14 of the 2019 Women's World Cup squad, were born in the region.\nRugby football.\nRugby league culturally dominates rugby union in this part of the world, as exhibited by the fact that the largest sporting crowd ever in northern England was the 1954 rugby league Challenge Cup Final at Bradford, which hosted in excess of 120,000 spectators. \nThe Rugby Football Union (RFU), which enforced amateurism, suspended teams who compensated their players for missed work and injury, leading teams from Lancashire, Yorkshire and surrounding areas to split away in 1895 and form the Rugby Football League (RFL). Over time, the RFU and RFL adopted different rules and the two forms of the game \u2013 rugby union and rugby league \u2013 diverged. Rugby league's stronghold remains Northern England along the \"M62 corridor\" between Liverpool and Hull. As of the 2025 season, 11 of the 12 teams in the Super League (the highest level of rugby league in the Northern Hemisphere) are from Northern England, with one team from France, and the 14-team Championship below it has 12 Northern teams, one London team and 1 French team.\nRugby union was not entirely driven from Northern England, and in the 1970s the region was home to several strong teams. The high-water mark of rugby union in Northern England was the 1979 New Zealand tour during which the English Northern Division was the only team to defeat the All Blacks. In the 21st century the region's club sides have become less popular, with association football, cricket and rugby league attracting more spectators and talent. In the 2024\u201325 season, Sale Sharks and Newcastle Falcons play in the English Premiership, and Caldy RFC and Doncaster Knights play in the RFU Championship.\nCricket.\nCricket has a strong following in Northern England, and three counties are represented by first-class county cricket teams: Durham, Lancashire and Yorkshire. The Roses Match (named for the Red Rose of Lancaster and the White Rose of York) between Lancashire and Yorkshire is one of the hardest fought rivalries in the sport \u2013 the pride of both sides, and their determination not to lose, resulted in the teams developing a slow, stubborn and defensive style that proved unpopular elsewhere in the country. The London-based Marylebone Cricket Club, which controlled the game at the time, selected few Northern players for Test matches, and this was perceived as a snub to their playing style \u2013 the anger united Lancashire and Yorkshire against the South and helped cast a shared Northern identity that transcended the Roses rivalry. This divide was illustrated in the 1924 County Championship, when Yorkshire beat London-based Middlesex to claim the title. Surrey accused Yorkshire of scuffing the pitch and intimidating the bowlers, while the match with Middlesex was so vicious that the team threatened to never play in Yorkshire again. The Lancashire captain Jack Sharp on the other hand was quoted as saying \"I'm real glad a rose won it. Red or white, it doesn't matter.\" Durham are a recent addition to top-flight cricket, having only achieved first-class status in 1992, but have won the County Championship three times.\nAlthough Yorkshire and Lancashire were traditionally more relaxed about professionalism than other counties, cricket did not see the same regional schisms on the topic that rugby and football did \u2013 there were debates over amateur status in first-class cricket, but these tensions were given release in the Gentlemen v Players fixture. Nevertheless, the annual North v South games were among the most popular and competitive in the sport, running annually from 1849 until 1900 and intermittently thereafter.\nPolitics.\nNorthern England, as the first area in the world to industrialise, was the birthplace of much modern political thought. Marxism and, more generally, socialism were shaped by reports into the lives of the Northern working class, from Friedrich Engels' \"The Condition of the Working Class in England\" to George Orwell's \"The Road to Wigan Pier\". Meanwhile, enterprise and trade at the North's ports influenced the birth of Manchester Liberalism, a \"laissez-faire\" free trade philosophy. Expounded by C. P. Scott and the \"Manchester Guardian\", the movement's greatest success was the repeal of the Corn Laws, protests against which had led to the 1819 Peterloo Massacre in Manchester.\nThe first Trades Union Congress was held in Manchester in 1868, and as of 2015 trade union membership in Northern England remained higher than in Southern England, although it is lower than in the other Home Nations. Since the Thatcher era, the Conservative Party struggled to gain support in the area. Today, Northern England is generally described as a stronghold of the Labour Party \u2013 although the Conservatives hold some rural seats, they traditionally held almost no urban seats and as of the 2021 local elections there are no Conservative councillors on Liverpool City Council, Manchester City Council or Newcastle City Council, and only one on Sheffield City Council. During the 2019 general election, many traditionally Labour constituencies in Northern England swung heavily towards the Conservatives, and the collapse of the \"red wall\" of Northern Labour seats was a major factor in the Conservative victory. Historically the region was also a heartland for the Liberals, and between the 1980s and the 2010s their successors in the Liberal Democrats benefited from Conservative unpopularity by positioning themselves as the centrist alternative to Labour in the North.\nAt the 2016 EU membership referendum, all three Northern England regions voted to leave, as did all English regions outside London. The largest Northern Remain vote was 60.4% in Manchester; the largest Leave vote was 69.9% in North East Lincolnshire. In total, the Leave vote in the Northern England regions was 55.9% \u2013 higher than in the Southern England regions and the other Home Nations, but lower than in the Midlands or the East of England. The Eurosceptic UK Independence Party (UKIP) positioned themselves as the main challenger to Labour in Northern constituencies, and came second in many at the 2015 general election. UKIP originally struggled in the region due to vote splitting with the far-right British National Party (BNP), who exploited racial tensions in the wake of the 2001 Bradford riots and other riots in Northern towns. In 2006, 40% of BNP voters lived in Northern England and both BNP MEPs elected at the 2009 European elections came from Northern constituencies. After 2013, BNP support in the region collapsed as most voters swung to UKIP. The Northern UKIP vote in turn collapsed following the EU referendum, with most UKIP voters returning to their former allegiances.\nCampaigns for Northern English devolution have seen little electoral support. Plans by Labour under Tony Blair to create devolved regional assemblies for the three Northern regions were abandoned after the government lost the 2004 North East England devolution referendum against a No vote of 78%. \nThe regionalist Yorkshire Party and North East Party only hold seats at the local council level, and the Northern Party, which campaigned for a devolved Northern government with the power to make laws and full control of taxation and spending, was wound up in 2016.\nThe Northern Independence Party was founded in October 2020, a secessionist and democratic socialist political party that seeks to make Northern England an independent nation, under the name of Northumbria.\nCombined authority mayors form northern England launched The Great North Partnership, chaired by North East Mayor Kim McGuinness, in May 2025.\nReligion.\nChristianity.\nChristianity has been the largest religion in the region since the Early Middle Ages; its existence in Britain dates back to the late Roman era and the arrival of Celtic Christianity. The Holy Island of Lindisfarne played an essential role in the Christianisation of Northumbria, after Aidan from Connacht founded a monastery there as the first Bishop of Lindisfarne at the request of King Oswald. It is known for the creation of the Lindisfarne Gospels and remains a place of pilgrimage. Saint Cuthbert, a monk of Lindisfarne, was venerated from Nottinghamshire to Cumberland, and is today sometimes named the patron saint of Northern England. The Synod of Whitby saw Northumbria break from Celtic Christianity and return to the Roman Catholic church, as calculations of Easter and tonsure rules were brought into line with those of Rome.\nAfter the English Reformation Northern England became a centre of Catholicism, and Irish immigration increased its numbers further, especially in North West cities like Liverpool and Manchester. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the area underwent a religious revival that ultimately produced Primitive Methodism, and at its peak in the 19th century Methodism was the dominant faith in much of Northern England.\nAs of 2016, the list of places of worship registered for marriage for Northern England included at least 1,960 that are Methodist or Independent Methodist, 1,200 Roman Catholic, 370 United Reformed, 310 Baptist or Particular Baptist, 250 Jehovah's Witness and 240 Salvation Army, as well as many hundreds of churches from smaller denominations.\nIn the ecclesiastical administration of the Church of England the entire North is covered by the Province of York, which is represented by the Archbishop of York \u2013 the second-highest figure in the Church after the Archbishop of Canterbury. The unusual situation of having two archbishops at the top of Church hierarchy suggests that Northern England was seen as a \"sui generis\". Likewise, with the exception of parts of the Diocese of Shrewsbury and Diocese of Nottingham, the North is covered in Roman Catholic Church administration by the Province of Liverpool, represented by the Archbishop of Liverpool.\nOther faiths.\nSmall Jewish communities arose in Beverley, Doncaster, Grimsby, Lancaster, Newcastle, and York in the wake of the Norman Conquest but suffered massacres and pogroms, of which the largest was the York Massacre in 1190. Jews were forcibly banished from England by the 1290 Edict of Expulsion until the Resettlement of the Jews in England in the seventeenth century, and the first synagogue in the North appeared in Liverpool in 1753. Manchester also has a long-standing Jewish community: the now-demolished 1857 Manchester Reform Synagogue was the second Reform synagogue in the country, and Greater Manchester has the only eruv in the United Kingdom outside London. Traditionally, there is also a large Jewish presence in Gateshead. In total, there are 84 synagogues in Northern England registered for marriages.\nSpiritualism flourished in Northern England in the nineteenth century, in part as a backlash to the fundamentalist Primitive Methodist movement and in part driven by the influence of Owenist socialism. There remain 220 Spiritualist churches registered in the North, of which 40 identify as Christian Spiritualist.\nThe first mosque in the United Kingdom was founded by the convert Abdullah Quilliam in the Liverpool Muslim Institute in 1889. Today, there are around 500 mosques in Northern England. Indian religions are also represented: there are at least 45 gurdwaras, of which the largest is the Sikh Temple in Leeds, and 30 mandirs, of which the largest is Bradford Lakshmi Narayan Hindu Temple.\nTransport.\nTransport in the North has been shaped by the Pennines, creating strong north\u2013south axes along each coast and an east\u2013west axis across the moorland passes of the southern Pennines. Northern England is a centre of freight transport and handles around one third of all British cargo. Both passenger and freight links between Northern cities remain poor, which is a major weakness of the Northern economy.\nThe passenger transport executive (PTE) has become a major player in the organisation of public transport within Northern city regions; of the six PTEs in England, five (Transport for Greater Manchester, Merseytravel, Travel South Yorkshire, Nexus Tyne and Wear and West Yorkshire Metro) are located in the North. These coordinate bus services, local trains and light rail in their regions. Following the passage of the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016, Transport for the North became a statutory body in 2018 with powers to coordinate services and offer integrated ticketing throughout the region.\nRoad.\nThe Preston By-pass, opened in 1958, was the first motorway in the UK. The major north-south motorway routes are the western M6 and eastern M1/A1(M), the Great North Road became the modern A1 road with the M1 using an alternative route and the A1 (M) is the upgraded A1. The A19 is a major north-south A-road also in the east. The M62 (over the south Pennines) is the major east-west motorway, it follows the Roman road between York and Chester. The A59, A66 and A69 are also major east-west A-roads. \nOlder streets in the north are called gates with a number of terms for small streets such as chare, wynd, tenfoot, vennel, snicket and ginnel. York goes as far as to merge the latter two terms with alleyway to form the term snickelways. These small streets can be cobbled or block-paved; pitched paving is a common in-between type of paving most often used.\nBuses are an important part of the Northern transport mix, with bus ridership above the England and Wales average in all three Northern regions. Many of the municipal bus companies were located in Northern England creating intense competition and bus wars following deregulation in the 1980s and 1990s. Increasing car ownership in the same era caused bus use to decline, although it remains higher than in most areas of the South.\nRail.\nThe North of England pioneered rail transport. Milestones include the 1758 Middleton Railway in Leeds, the first railway authorised by Act of Parliament and the oldest continually operating in the world; the 1825 Stockton and Darlington Railway, the first public railway to use steam locomotives; and the 1830 Liverpool and Manchester Railway, the first modern main line. Today the region retains many of its original railway lines, including the East Coast and West Coast main lines and the Cross Country Route. Passenger numbers on Northern routes increased over 50% between 2004 and 2016, and Northern England handles over half of total UK rail freight, but infrastructure is poorly funded compared to Southern railways: railways in London received \u00a35426 per resident in 2015 while those in the North East received just \u00a3223 per resident, and journeys between major cities are slow and overcrowded.\nTo combat this, the Department of Transport has devolved many of its powers to Rail North, an alliance of local authorities from the Scottish Borders down to Staffordshire which manages the Northern Rail and TransPennine Express franchises that operate many routes in Northern England. Meanwhile, new build such as the Northern Hub around Manchester and Northern Powerhouse Rail from Liverpool to Hull and Newcastle is planned to increase capacity on important Northern routes and decrease travel times. The planned High Speed 2 (HS2) line would have connected Manchester and Leeds to Birmingham and London, but cuts to HS2 saw all Northern branches of the line cancelled.\nThe first passenger tram line in the UK was built in Birkenhead and opened on 30 August 1860 (partially open intermittently as a heritage tramway). Trams turned out to be especially well suited for Northern cities, with their growing working-class suburbs, and by the turn of the century, most Northern towns had an extensive interconnected electric tram network. At the network's height, it was possible to travel entirely by tram from Liverpool Pier Head to the village of Summit, outside Rochdale, a distance of , and a gap of only separated the North-Western network from the West Yorkshire network. Starting in the 1930s, these were largely replaced by motor buses and trolley buses. With the closure of Sheffield Tramway in 1960 and Glasgow Tramway in 1962, Blackpool Tramway \u2013 popular as a tourist attraction as much as a means of transport \u2013 was left as the only public tram system in the UK until the Manchester Metrolink opened in 1992. Today there are four light rail systems in the North \u2013 Blackpool Tramway, Manchester Metrolink, Sheffield Supertram and Tyne &amp; Wear Metro.\nAir.\nIn total, there are six international airports in the North; these are (in descending order of passenger traffic) Manchester, Newcastle, Liverpool John Lennon, Leeds Bradford, Teesside and Humberside. \nManchester Airport is a major hub and the busiest airport anywhere in the UK outside London, handling 23.3 million people in 2022 (10.5% of all UK passengers), and Newcastle (4.1 million), Liverpool (3.5 million) and Leeds-Bradford (3.3 million) serve their city regions. \nOther airports in the North have struggled. Teesside and Humberside both see very little traffic while other airports have closed to commercial flights entirely: Blackpool closed in 2014, Carlisle Lake District in 2020 and Doncaster Sheffield in 2022. Many of these airports were developed during the boom in low-cost air travel during the early 2000s and suffered following the Great Recession and COVID lockdowns.\nThe devolution of Air Passenger Duty in Scotland allows Scottish airports to offer cheaper flights than their English rivals as well as London airports turning Northern airports to spoke airports, forcing connecting passengers to travel via London or continental European airports for major destinations.\nWater.\nThe first modern canal in England was Sankey Brook, opened in 1757 to connect Liverpool's ports to the St Helens coalfields. By 1777, the Grand Trunk Canal had opened, linking the rivers Mersey and Trent and making it possible for boats to travel directly from Liverpool to Hull. Manchester, inland, was connected to the Irish Sea by the Manchester Ship Canal in 1894, although the canal never saw the success that was hoped for. The North retains many navigable canals, including the Cheshire, North Pennine and South Pennine canal rings, although they are now used mostly for pleasure rather than transport \u2013 the Aire and Calder Navigation, which carries over 2 million tons of oil, sand and gravel per year, is a rare exception.\nMany Northern coastal towns were built on trade, and retain large sea ports. The Humber ports of Grimsby and Immingham (counted as a single port for statistical purposes) are the busiest in the UK in terms of tonnage, serving 59.1 million tons as of 2015, and Teesport and the Port of Liverpool are also among the country's largest \u2013 in total, 35% of British freight was shipped through Northern ports. Roll-on/roll-off ferries offer passenger and freight connections to the Isle of Man and Ireland along the west coast, while east coast ports connect to Belgium and the Netherlands, although Northern ports handle only a small percentage of the UK's vehicle traffic. Liverpool Cruise Terminal opened in 2007, cruises also operate out of Port of Hull and Newcastle International Ferry Terminal."}
{"id": "714697", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714697", "title": "Calculus of Constructions", "text": ""}
{"id": "714699", "revid": "908617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714699", "title": "New York (magazine)", "text": "New York is an American biweekly magazine concerned with life, culture, politics, and style generally, with a particular emphasis on New York City.\nFounded by Clay Felker and Milton Glaser in 1968 as a competitor to \"The New Yorker\" and \"The New York Times Magazine\", it was brasher in voice and more connected to contemporary city life and commerce, and became a cradle of New Journalism. Over time, it became more national in scope, publishing many noteworthy articles about American culture by writers such as Tom Wolfe, Jimmy Breslin, Nora Ephron, Pete Hamill, Jacob Weisberg, Michael Wolff, John Heilemann, Frank Rich, and Rebecca Traister. It was among the first \"lifestyle magazines\" meant to appeal to both male and female audiences, and its format and style have been emulated by many American regional and city publications.\n\"New York\" in its earliest days focused almost entirely on coverage of its namesake city, but beginning in the 1970s, it expanded into reporting and commentary on national politics, notably Richard Reeves on Watergate, Joe Klein's early cover story about Bill Clinton, John Heilemann's reporting on the 2008 presidential election that led to his (and Mark Halperin's) best-selling book \"Game Change\", Jonathan Chait's commentary, and Olivia Nuzzi's reporting on the first Trump administration. \"The New Republic\" praised its \"hugely impressive political coverage\" during the presidency of Barack Obama. It is also known for its arts and culture criticism, its food writing (its restaurant critic Adam Platt won a James Beard Award in 2009, and its Underground Gourmet critics Rob Patronite and Robin Raisfeld won two National Magazine Awards), and its service journalism (its \"Strategist\" department won seven National Magazine Awards in eleven years).\nSince its sale, redesign, and relaunch in 2004, the magazine has won several National Magazine Awards, including the award for general excellence in 2006, 2007, 2010, 2011, 2014, and 2016, as well as the 2013 award for Magazine of the Year. Since the Pulitzer Prize for Criticism opened to magazines as well as newspapers in 2016, \"New York\"s critics have won twice (Jerry Saltz in 2018, and Andrea Long Chu in 2023) and been finalists three more times (Justin Davidson in 2020, Craig Jenkins in 2021, and Sara Holdren in 2024). In 2009, the \"Washington Post\" media critic Howard Kurtz wrote that \"the nation's best and most-imitated city magazine is often not about the city\u2014at least not in the overcrowded, traffic-clogged, five-boroughs sense,\" observing that it was more regularly publishing political and cultural stories of national and international import.\nThe magazine's first website, nymetro.com, was launched in 2001. In the early 21st century, the magazine began to diversify that online presence, introducing subject-specific websites under the nymag.com umbrella: \"Vulture\", \"The Cut\", \"Intelligencer, The Strategist, Curbed\", and \"Grub Street\". In 2018, New York Media, the parent company of \"New York\" magazine, launched a digital subscription product for those sites. On September 24, 2019, Vox Media announced that it had purchased \"New York\" magazine and its parent company, New York Media.\nHistory.\n1960s.\n\"New York\" was created in 1963 as the Sunday-magazine supplement of the \"New York Herald Tribune\" newspaper. The \"Herald Tribune\", then in financial difficulty, had recently been sold to John Hay Whitney, and was looking to revitalize its business with an increased focus on editorial excellence, which included a relaunch of the Sunday edition and its magazine. Edited first by Sheldon Zalaznick and then by Clay Felker, the relaunched magazine, called \"New York\", showcased the work of many talented \"Tribune\" contributors, including Tom Wolfe, Barbara Goldsmith, Gail Sheehy, Dick Schaap, and Jimmy Breslin. The \"Tribune\" went out of business in 1966, and \"New York\" was briefly revived as part of a combined paper, the \"World Journal Tribune\", that lasted until May 1967. Shortly after the \"WJT\" closed, Felker and his partner, Milton Glaser, purchased the rights to the nameplate, backed by Wall Street bankers led by Armand G. Erpf (the magazine's first chairman, who Felker attributed as the financial architect of the magazine) and C. Gerald Goldsmith (Barbara Goldsmith's husband at the time), and reincarnated the magazine as a stand-alone glossy weekly. Joining them was managing editor Jack Nessel, Felker's number-two at the \"Herald Tribune.\" \"New York\"'s first issue was dated April 8, 1968. Several writers came from the magazine's earlier incarnation, including Breslin, Wolfe (who wrote \"You and Your Big Mouth: How the Honks and Wonks Reveal the Phonetic Truth about Status\" in the inaugural issue), and George Goodman, a financial writer who wrote under the pseudonym \"Adam Smith.\" Glaser and his deputy Walter Bernard designed and laid out the magazine and hired many notable artists, including Jim McMullan, Robert Grossman, and David Levine, to produce covers and illustrations.\nWithin a year, Felker had assembled a team of contributors who would come to define the magazine's voice. Breslin became a regular, as did Nicholas Pileggi, Gail Sheehy, and Gloria Steinem, who wrote a politics column. Judith Crist wrote movie reviews. Harold Clurman was hired as the theater critic, then replaced a few months later by John Simon, who became notorious for his harsh reviews. Alan Rich covered the classical-music scene. Barbara Goldsmith wrote a series called \"The Creative Environment\", in which she interviewed such subjects as Marcel Breuer, I. M. Pei, George Balanchine, and Pablo Picasso about their process. Gael Greene, writing under the rubric \"The Insatiable Critic\", reviewed restaurants, cultivating a baroque writing style that leaned heavily on sexual metaphor. The office for the magazine was on the top floor of the old Tammany Hall clubhouse at 207 East 32nd Street, which Glaser owned. The magazine did not consistently turn a profit in these early years: One board member, Alan Patricof, later said that \"it may have touched into the black for a quarter, then out of it, but it was not significantly profitable.\"\n1970s.\nWolfe, a regular contributor to the magazine, wrote a story in 1970 that captured the spirit of the magazine (if not the age): \"Radical Chic: That Party at Lenny's\". The controversial and often criticized article described a benefit party for the Black Panthers, held in Leonard Bernstein's apartment, in a collision of high culture and low that paralleled \"New York\" magazine's ethos and expressed Wolfe's interest in status and class.\nIn 1972, \"New York\"s year-end issue incorporated a 30-page preview of the first issue of \"Ms.\" magazine, edited by Gloria Steinem. Gail Sheehy's \"The Search for Grey Gardens\", a cover story about the notorious mother-and-daughter Beale household of East Hampton, led to the Maysles brothers' acclaimed documentary.\nAs the 1970s progressed, Felker continued to broaden the magazine's editorial vision beyond Manhattan, covering Richard Nixon and the Watergate scandal closely. He also launched \"New West\", a sister magazine on \"New York\"'s model that covered California life, published in separate Northern California and Southern California editions. In 1976, journalist Nik Cohn wrote a story called \"Tribal Rites of the New Saturday Night\", about a young man in a working-class Brooklyn neighborhood who, once a week, went to a local disco called Odyssey 2001; the story was a sensation and served as the basis for the film \"Saturday Night Fever\". Twenty years later, in a followup story in \"New York\", Cohn admitted that he had made up the character and most of the story.\nIn 1976, the Australian media baron Rupert Murdoch bought the magazine in a hostile takeover, forcing Felker and Glaser out. A succession of top editors followed through the remainder of the decade, including James Brady, Joe Armstrong (who also served as publisher), John Berendt, and (briefly) Jane Amsterdam.\n1980s.\nIn 1980, Murdoch hired Edward Kosner, the former editor of \"Newsweek\", to replace Armstrong. Murdoch also bought \"Cue\", a listings magazine founded by Mort Glankoff that had covered the city since 1932, and folded it into \"New York\", simultaneously creating a useful going-out guide and eliminating a competitor. Kosner's magazine shifted the mix of the magazine toward newsmagazine-style cover stories, trend pieces, and pure \"service\" features\u2014long articles on shopping and other consumer subjects\u2014as well as close coverage of the glitzy 1980s New York City scene epitomized by financiers Donald Trump and Saul Steinberg. The magazine was profitable for most of the 1980s. The term \"the Brat Pack\" was coined for a 1985 cover story in the magazine.\n1990s.\nMurdoch got out of the magazine business in 1991 by selling his holdings to K-III Communications (now Rent Group), a partnership controlled by financier Henry Kravis. Subsequent budget pressure from K-III frustrated Kosner, and he left in 1993, taking over the editorship of \"Esquire\" magazine. After several months during which the magazine was run by managing editor Peter Herbst, K-III hired Kurt Andersen, the co-creator of \"Spy\", a humor monthly of the late 1980s and early 1990s. Andersen quickly replaced several staff members, bringing in emerging and established writers (including Jim Cramer, Walter Kirn, Michael Tomasky, and Jacob Weisberg) and editors (including Michael Hirschorn, Kim France, Dany Levy, and Maer Roshan), and generally making the magazine faster-paced, younger in outlook, and more knowing in tone. In August 1996, Bill Reilly fired Andersen from his editorship, citing the publication's financial results. According to Andersen, he was fired for refusing to kill a story about a rivalry between investment bankers Felix Rohatyn and Steven Rattner that had upset Henry Kravis, a member of the firm's ownership group. His replacement was Caroline Miller, who came from \"Seventeen\", another K-III title. In part owing to the company's financial constraints, Miller and her editors focused on cultivating younger writers, including Ariel Levy, Jennifer Senior, Robert Kolker, and Vanessa Grigoriadis. She also hired Michael Wolff, whose writing about media and politics became an extremely popular component of the magazine.\n2000s.\nThe magazine's first website, under the url nymetro.com, appeared in 2001. In 2002 and 2003, Wolff, the media critic Miller had hired in 1998, won two National Magazine Awards for his columns. At the end of 2003, \"New York\" was sold again, to a family trust controlled by financier Bruce Wasserstein, for $55 million. Wasserstein, early in 2004, replaced Miller with Adam Moss, who had founded the short-lived New York weekly \"7 Days\" and then edited \"The New York Times Magazine\". That fall, Moss and his staff relaunched the magazine, most notably with two new sections: \"The Strategist\", devoted mostly to service, food, and shopping, and \"The Culture Pages\", covering the city's arts scene. Moss also rehired Kurt Andersen as a columnist. In early 2006, the company relaunched the magazine's website, previously nymetro.com, as nymag.com.\n\"New York\" in this period won design awards at the National Magazine Awards and was named Magazine of the Year by the Society of Publication Designers (SPD) in 2006 and 2007. A 2008 cover about Eliot Spitzer's prostitution scandal, created by the artist Barbara Kruger and displaying the word \"Brain\" with an arrow pointed at Spitzer's crotch, was named Cover of the Year by the American Society of Magazine Editors (ASME) and \"Advertising Age\". The next year, another cover, \"Bernie Madoff, Monster\", was named Best News &amp; Business Cover by ASME. \"New York\" won back-to-back ASME Cover of the Year awards in 2012 and 2013, for \"Is She Just Too Old for This?\" and \"The City and the Storm\" respectively. Design director Chris Dixon and photography director Jody Quon were named \"Design Team of the Year\" by Adweek in 2008.\nWhen Bruce Wasserstein died in 2009, David Carr of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"While previous owners had required constant features in the magazine about the best place to get a croissant or a beret, it was clear that Wasserstein wanted a publication that was the best place to learn about the complicated apparatus that is modern New York. In enabling as much, Mr. Wasserstein recaptured the original intent of the magazine's founder, Clay Felker.\" Wasserstein's children retained control of the magazine, which continued to be overseen by his deputy Anup Bagaria.\nIn 2006, \"New York\"'s website, NYMag.com, underwent a year-long relaunch, transforming from a site that principally republished the magazine's content to an up-to-the-minute news- and- service destination. In 2008, parent company New York Media also purchased the restaurant- and-menu site MenuPages as a complement to its own restaurant coverage, reselling it in 2011 to Seamless.\nWith the launch of Grub Street, devoted to food, and Daily Intelligencer (later renamed just \"Intelligencer\"), its politics site, both in 2006; Vulture, its culture site, in 2007; and The Cut, its fashion-and-women's-interest site, in 2008, \"New York\" began shifting significant resources toward digital-only publication. These sites were intended to adapt the urbane sensibility of the print magazine for a national and international audience, and attract readership that had been lost by print magazines in general, particularly fashion and entertainment outlets. By July 2010, digital ads accounted for one-third of the company's advertising revenue. David Carr noted in an August 2010 column, \"In a way, \"New York\" magazine is fast becoming a digital enterprise with a magazine attached.\"\n2010s.\nOn March 1, 2011, it was announced that Frank Rich would leave \"The New York Times\" to become an essayist and editor-at-large for \"New York\".\n\"New York\"'s \"Encyclopedia of 9/11\", published on the tenth anniversary of the attacks, was described by \"Gizmodo\" as \"heartbreaking, locked in the past, and entirely current\"; the issue won a National Magazine Award for Single-Topic Issue.\nIn October 2012, \"New York\"'s offices in lower Manhattan were without electricity in the week following Hurricane Sandy, so the editorial staff published an issue from a quickly constructed temporary newsroom in the midtown office of Wasserstein &amp; Company. The issue's cover, shot by photographer Iwan Baan from a helicopter and showing Manhattan half in darkness, almost immediately became an iconic image of the storm; \"Time\" called it the magazine cover of the year. The image was republished as a poster by the Museum of Modern Art, with proceeds benefiting Hurricane Sandy relief efforts. The following spring, \"New York\" took the top honor at the National Magazine Awards, again receiving the Magazine of the Year award for its print and digital coverage.\nIn December 2013, as readership for its digital sites continued to build, the magazine announced plans to shift the print edition to biweekly publication the following March, reducing from 42 issues per year to 26 plus three special editions.\nIn April 2016, the magazine announced the launch of Select All, a new vertical dedicated to technology and innovation. In 2019, Select All was shuttered and folded into the broadened \"Intelligencer\" news site.\nIn the mid-2010s, \"New York\" launched several podcasts jointly produced with other outlets, all short-lived. Its first independently owned podcast, Good One: A Podcast About Jokes, hosted by Jesse David Fox, launched in February 2017. The magazine also expanded into television, collaborating with Michael Hirschorn's Ish Entertainment and Bravo to produce a pilot for a weekly. TV show based on its popular back-page feature, the Approval Matrix. \"New York\"'s art critic Jerry Saltz appeared as a judge on Bravo's reality competition series \"\" in 2010 and 2011. Grub Street senior editor Alan Sytsma appeared as a guest on judge on three episodes of the third season of \"Top Chef Masters\".\nApril 2018 was \"New York\"s 50th anniversary, marked with a book-length history of the magazine and its city, published by Simon &amp; Schuster and titled \"Highbrow, Lowbrow, Brilliant, Despicable: 50 Years of New York\". The magazine also produced a commemorative issue and celebrated with a party at Katz's Delicatessen. That year, The Cut introduced its podcast, \"The Cut on Tuesdays\", produced jointly with Gimlet Media and hosted by one of the site's writers, Molly Fischer.\nIn December 2018, \"New York\"'s fashion and beauty destination site, The Cut, carried a piece titled \"Is Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas's Love for Real?\", that drew severe backlash from readers for accusing Chopra of trapping Jonas into a fraudulent relationship and calling her a \"global scam artist\". The publication removed the piece the following morning and issued an apology.\nIn January 2019, Moss announced that he was retiring from the editorship. David Haskell, one of his chief deputies, succeeded him as editor on April 1, 2019. That spring, the magazine laid off several staff members and temporary employees.\nIn his first few months in the role, Haskell published a cover story on a bizarre cult at Sarah Lawrence college that ultimately led to its leader Larry Ray\u2019s conviction on federal charges of extortion, sex trafficking, and racketeering conspiracy. The magazine also published an excerpt from E. Jean Carroll\u2019s book that accused then-president Donald Trump of sexual assault and would have ongoing legal ramifications for him.\nOn September 24, 2019, Vox Media announced that it had purchased the magazine's parent company, New York Media LLC. Pam Wasserstein, the CEO of New York Media, became Vox Media's president, working closely with its CEO, Jim Bankoff.\n2020s.\nAfter the merger with Vox Media, May 2020, Vox Media announced it was merging the real estate site \"Curbed\" into \"New York\" and refocusing the site on its roots in New York City. That year, \"New York\" also expanded its podcast business, adding \"Pivot\", \"On With Kara Swisher\", \"Where Should We Begin with Esther Perel\", \"Switched on Pop\", and \"Into It With Sam Sanders\" to its lineup. The company also saw an expansion of its intellectual property into television and movies, notably with \"Hustlers\", a feature film adapted from a story by Jessica Pressler. In 2022, three television series adapted from \"New York\" properties appeared: \"Inventing Anna\" and \"The Watcher\" on Netflix, and \"Sex Diaries\" on HBO. The magazine also moved into publishing an array of digital newsletters, including \"Are U Coming?\", which documented the nightlife of city emerging from Covid lockdown; \"The Year I Ate New York\", written in 2022 by Tammie Taclamarian and in 2023 by E. Alex Jung; and a collection of limited-series newsletters devoted to \"Succession\", \"\u2026And Just Like That\", and prominent New York City court cases.\nNotable stories published by \"New York\" in this decade include Nicholson Baker's investigation of the possibility that a lab leak instigated the COVID-19 epidemic; a cover package, \"Ten Years Since Trayvon,\" about the rise of the Black Lives Matter movement; \"The Year of the Nepo Baby,\" a widely discussed feature about dynastic career advancement in Hollywood, that popularized the term and won a National Magazine Award; and \u201cThere Is No Safe Word,\u201d an in-depth look at sexual-assault allegations against Neil Gaiman, after which he was dropped by his publisher. Lindsay Peoples became the editor of The Cut in 2021, and \"New York\" hired book critic Andrea Long Chu, who subsequently won the Pulitzer Prize for Criticism.\nPuzzles and competitions.\n\"New York\" magazine has long run literary competitions and distinctive crossword puzzles. For the first year of the magazine's existence, the composer and lyricist Stephen Sondheim contributed an extremely complex cryptic crossword to every third issue. Sondheim eventually ceded the job in order to write his next musical, and Richard Maltby, Jr. took over. For many years the magazine also syndicated The Times of London's cryptic crossword.\nBeginning in early 1969, for two weeks out of every three, Sondheim's friend Mary Ann Madden edited an extremely popular witty literary competition calling for readers to send in humorous poetry or other bits of wordplay on a given theme that changed with each installment. (A typical entry, in a competition calling for humorous epitaphs, supplied this one for Geronimo: \"Requiescat in Apache.\") Altogether, Madden ran 973 installments of the competition, retiring in 2000. Hundreds, sometimes thousands, of entries were received each week, and winners included David Mamet, Herb Sargent, and Dan Greenburg. David Halberstam once claimed that he had submitted entries 137 times without winning. Madden published three volumes of Competition winners, titled \"Thank You for the Giant Sea Tortoise\", \"Son of Giant Sea Tortoise\", and \"Maybe He's Dead: And Other Hilarious Results of New York Magazine Competitions\".\nBeginning in 1980, the magazine ran an American-style crossword constructed by Maura B. Jacobson. Jacobson retired in April 2011, having created 1,400 puzzles for the magazine, after which the job passed to Cathy Allis Millhauser and then Matt Gaffney. In January 2020, \"Vulture\" began publishing daily 10x10 crosswords by two constructors, Malaika Handa and Stella Zawistowski. Vulture continued its expansion into games with the launch of Cinematrix, an addictive movie trivia game, in 2024, followed by Telematrix in 2025. \nSites operated by \"New York\".\n\"Intelligencer\".\n\"New York\"s news blog was introduced under the name Daily Intelligencer, expanding upon the weekly magazine's front-of-the-book Intelligencer section. Launched in 2006, it was initially written mostly by Jessica Pressler and Chris Rovzar, whose coverage focused on local politics, media, and Wall Street but also included extensive chatter about the television show \"Gossip Girl\". Over its first half-decade, the site expanded in reach and became more focused on national politics, notably with the addition of columnist Jonathan Chait in 2011 and the longtime political blogger Ed Kilgore in 2015.\n\"The Cut\".\n\"The Cut\" launched on the \"New York\" website in 2008, edited by Amy Odell, to replace a previous fashion week blog, \"Show &amp; Talk\". In 2012 it became a standalone website, shifting focus from fashion to women's issues more generally. Stella Bugbee became editor-in-chief in 2017, and presided over a relaunch that appeared on August 21. The new site was designed for an enhanced mobile-first experience and to better reflect the topics covered. In January 2018, \"The Cut\" published Moira Donegan's essay revealing her as the creator of the controversial \"Shitty Media Men\" list, a viral but short-lived anonymous spreadsheet crowdsourcing unconfirmed reports of sexual misconduct by men in journalism. That August, the site also published \"Everywhere and Nowhere,\" Lindsay Peoples's essay about the fashion industry's inhospitability to Black voices and points of view. In 2019, \"The Cut\" published an excerpt from E. Jean Carroll's book, \"What Do We Need Men For? A Modest Proposal,\" mostly about Donald Trump's sexual assault on her. In 2021, Peoples became the site's next editor-in-chief. \"The Cut\" also incorporates the pop-science rubric \"Science of Us\", which previously existed as a standalone site. In 2024, 'The Cut' published an article in which a woman confessed to abusing and neglecting her pet cat, Lucky. Advocates took to social media by storm seeking justice for Lucky.\n\"Grub Street\".\n\"Grub Street\", covering food and restaurants, was expanded in 2009 to five additional cities served by former nymag.com sister site MenuPages.com. In 2013 \"Grub Street\" announced that it would close its city blogs outside New York and bring a more national focus to GrubStreet.com.\n\"Vulture\".\n\"Vulture\" was launched as a pop culture blog on NYMag.com in 2007. It moved to an independent web address, Vulture.com, in 2012. In 2018, New York Media acquired the comedy news blog \"Splitsider\", folding the operation into the \"Vulture\" website.\n\"The Strategist\".\nIn 2016, \"New York\" launched the \"Strategist\", an expansion of a column from the print version of \"New York\" Magazine that aimed to help readers navigate shopping from the \"New York\" perspective. The site joined other product review sites focusing on providing free product reviews to readers, generating affiliate commissions when readers would purchase a product they recommended. The early editorial team included editors David Haskell and Alexis Swerdloff. Popular recurring franchises include the celebrity-shopping \"What I Can't Live Without\" series, \"Strategist-Approved\" gift guides, and beauty reviews by influencer Rio Viera-Newton. The \"Strategist\" does not publish branded content that is paid for by the subject of a story, but it earns revenue through affiliate advertising, including the Amazon Associates Program. In 2018, the \"Strategist\" experimented with a holiday pop-up shop called I Found It at the Strategist.\n\"Curbed\".\nIn 2020, \"New York\" took over the Vox Media website \"Curbed\", which had begun by covering New York City real estate and development since 2005 and had grown to cover urbanism and design news in many American cities. That October, Curbed relaunched as a \"New York\" vertical with a new design and a resharpened focus on New York City. Its prominent writers include the Pulitzer Prize\u2013winner Justin Davidson, the magazine's architecture critic, and Wendy Goodman, its design editor.\nBooks.\nBooks published by \"New York\" include:\nFilm and television.\nScreen adaptations from stories published in \"New York\" include:"}
{"id": "714701", "revid": "51783598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714701", "title": "Lloyds Bank", "text": "Lloyds Bank plc is a major British retail and commercial bank with a significant presence across England and Wales. It has traditionally been regarded one of the \"Big Four\" clearing banks.\nEstablished in Birmingham in 1765, Lloyds Bank expanded considerably during the 19th and 20th centuries, acquiring several smaller banks along the way. It merged with the Trustee Savings Bank in 1995 and operated as Lloyds TSB Bank plc from 1999 to 2013. In January 2009, it became a key subsidiary of Lloyds Banking Group following the acquisition of HBOS by Lloyds TSB Group. The bank's operational headquarters are in London, England, with additional offices in Wales and Scotland, and it also manages office complexes, brand headquarters, and data centres in Birmingham, Leeds, Sheffield, Halifax, and Wolverhampton.\nHistory.\nOrigins.\nThe origins of Lloyds Bank date from 1765, when button maker John Taylor and Quaker iron producer and dealer Sampson Lloyd set up a private banking business in Dale End, Birmingham. The first branch office opened in Oldbury, some six miles (10\u00a0km) west of Birmingham, in 1864.\nThe association with the Taylor family ended in 1852 and, in 1865, Lloyds &amp; Co. converted into a joint-stock company known as Lloyds Banking Company Ltd. The first report of the company in 1865 stated:LLOYDS BANKING COMPANY LIMITED \u2013 Authorized Capital \u00a32,000,000. FOUNDED ON The Private Banks of Messrs. Lloyds &amp; Co. and Messrs. Moilliet and Sons, with-which have subsequently been amalgamated with the Banks of Messrs. P. H. Williams, Wednesbury, and Messrs.Stevenson, Salt, &amp; Co., Stafford and Lichfield. [They had an office at 20 Lombard St., London] Your Directors have the satisfaction to report that they have concluded an agreement with the well-known and old-established firm of Messrs. Stevenson, Salt &amp; Company for the amalgamation with this Company of their Banking Business at Stafford, Lichfield, Rugeley, and Eccleshall, and that this agreement has had the unanimous approval of the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 31st January last. It will be again submitted to you for final confirmation after the close of the Ordinary General Meeting. TIMOTHY KENRICK, Chairman. BIRMINGHAM, 9th February 1866Two sons of the original partners followed in their footsteps by joining the established merchant bank Barnett, Hoares &amp; Co. which later became Barnetts, Hoares, Hanbury, and Lloyd\u2014 based in Lombard Street, London. Eventually, this became absorbed into the original Lloyds Banking Company, which became Lloyds, Barnetts, and Bosanquets Bank Ltd. in 1884. and, finally, Lloyds Bank Limited in 1889.\nSymbols.\nThe symbol adopted by Taylors and Lloyds was the beehive, representing industry and hard work (thrift). In 1822, Taylors and Lloyds sent a letter to other banks to inform them of stolen banknotes, adding that it would engrave a symbol of a beehive to all future notes. Dowler &amp; Sons made brass buttons embellished with beehives for branch messenger uniforms in the 1900s. Uniform buttons featuring a black horse with small beehives engraved around it were manufactured in the 1930s.\nThe black horse regardant device dates from 1677, when Humphrey Stokes adopted it as a sign for his shop. The reason why Stokes chose this horse is unknown, though it may have been a family crest because the black horse is heraldically posed in 'rampant regardant'. Stokes was a goldsmith and \"keeper of the running cashes\" (an early term for banker) and the business became part of Barnett, Hoares &amp; Co. When Lloyds took over that bank in 1884, it continued to trade \"at the sign of the black horse\". \nThe green of the Lloyds Bank was adopted in the 1920s for added distinctiveness.\nFrom 1884 to the 1920s, the black horse and the beehive were both used in cheques, until the beehive was dropped. During this period, other symbols were used; for example, the liver bird, which was retained from the Liverpool Union Bank when it was taken over in 1900.\nSince 1975, real black horses have been featured in Lloyds' television adverts, including Cancara.\nExpansion.\nThrough a series of mergers, including Cunliffe, Brooks in 1900, the Wilts. and Dorset Bank in 1914 and, by far the largest, the Capital and Counties Bank in 1918, Lloyds emerged to become one of the \"Big Four\" clearing banks in the United Kingdom. By 1923, Lloyds Bank had made some 50 takeovers, one of which was the last private firm to issue its own banknotes\u2014Fox, Fowler and Company of Wellington, Somerset. Today, the Bank of England has a monopoly of banknote issue in England and Wales. In 2011, the company founded SGH Martineau LLP.\nEleven banks bought by Lloyds Bank between 1865 and 1923 had been involved in slavery to some degree. One of these, the London and Brazilian Bank, financed coffee plantations in Brazil which operated on slave labour, and mortgages on these plantations were sometimes secured using the monetary value of the enslaved people as collateral.\nIn 1968, an attempt to merge with Barclays and Martins Bank failed because the Monopolies and Mergers Commission deemed it to be against the public interest. Barclays finally acquired Martins the following year. In 1972, Lloyds Bank was a founding member of the Joint Credit Card Company (with National Westminster Bank, Midland Bank and the National and Commercial Banking Group) which launched the Access credit card (now MasterCard). That same year it introduced \"Cashpoint\", the first online cash machine to use plastic cards with a magnetic stripe. In popular use, the \"Cashpoint\" trademark has become a generic term for an ATM in the United Kingdom.\nIn 1982 Lloyds decided to follow Provident Financial Group plc in entering the estate agency market with the acquisition of the Norfolk firm of Charles Hawkins and Son in May of that year to form Black Horse Agencies. The firm had been first established in 1869 in Downham Market by Charles Hawkins who was land agent for the Pratt estate at Ryston. The firm merged in 1875 with that of Cruso and Son forming Cruso and Hawkins, later becoming Charles Hawkins and Son in 1908.\nUnder the leadership of Sir Brian Pitman between 1984 and 1997, the bank became an early adopter of shareholder value creation as a governing corporate objective. The bank's business focus was narrowed and it reacted to disastrous lending to South American states by trimming its overseas businesses and seeking growth through mergers with other UK banks. During this period, Pitman tried unsuccessfully to acquire The Royal Bank of Scotland in 1984, Standard Chartered in 1986, and Midland Bank in 1992. Lloyds Bank International merged into Lloyds Bank in 1986, since there was no longer an advantage in operating separately. In 1988, Lloyds merged five of its businesses with the Abbey Life Insurance Company to create Lloyds Abbey Life.\nLloyds TSB.\nThe bank merged first with the newly demutualised Cheltenham &amp; Gloucester Building Society (C&amp;G), then with the TSB Group in 1995. The C&amp;G acquisition gave Lloyds a large stake in the UK mortgage lending market. The TSB merger was structured as a reverse takeover; Lloyds Bank Plc was delisted from the London Stock Exchange and TSB Group plc was renamed Lloyds TSB Group plc on 28 December, with former Lloyds Bank shareholders owning a 70% equity interest in the share capital, effected through a scheme of arrangement. The new bank commenced trading in 1999 after the statutory process of integration was completed. On 28 June, TSB Bank plc transferred engagements to Lloyds Bank Plc which then changed its name to Lloyds TSB Bank plc; at the same time, TSB Bank Scotland plc absorbed Lloyds' three Scottish branches becoming Lloyds TSB Scotland plc. The combined business formed the largest bank in the UK by market share and the second-largest to Midland Bank (now HSBC) by market capitalisation. Lloyds' iconic black horse device was retained and modified to reflect the TSB merger.\nLloyds Abbey Life became a wholly owned subsidiary of the group in 1996, absorbing Hill Samuel in 1997, before closing to a new business in 2000. In 2007, Abbey Life was sold to Deutsche Bank for \u00a3977 million.\nIn 1999, the group agreed to buy the Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society for \u00a37 billion. The society demutualised in 2000, shortly before the acquisition was completed. In 2001, Lloyds TSB made a bid to acquire Abbey National; however, the bid was blocked by the Competition Commission, who ruled that a merger would be against the public interest.\nIn October 2011, Lloyds TSB's credit rating was reduced by Moody's from Aa3 to A1. The action was taken in the light of a shift in government policy to move risk from taxpayers to creditors by reducing the level of support offered to financial institutions.\nLloyds TSB was the first Official Partner for the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.\nDivestment and return to Lloyds Bank.\nAfter the 2008 rescue of HBOS, Lloyds TSB Group was renamed Lloyds Banking Group. In 2009, following the liquidity crisis, HM Government took a 43.4% stake in Lloyds Banking Group. The European Commission ruled that the group must sell a portion of its business by November 2013, as it categorised the stake purchase as state aid.\nOn 24 April 2013, it was confirmed that a number of Lloyds TSB branches in England and Wales would be combined with the branches of Cheltenham &amp; Gloucester and the business of Lloyds TSB Scotland to form a new bank operating under the TSB brand and divested by the group. The selected Lloyds TSB branches and those of Cheltenham &amp; Gloucester were transferred to Lloyds TSB Scotland plc, which was renamed TSB Bank plc. The new bank began operating on 9 September 2013 as a separate division within Lloyds Banking Group. TSB was floated on the London Stock Exchange on 20 June 2014, and was acquired by Banco Sabadell one year later and subsequently delisted. The remaining business of Lloyds TSB returned to the Lloyds Bank name on 23 September 2013.\nIn October 2014, the bank announced that it planned to cut 9,000 jobs and close some branches in light of an increase in the number of customers using online banking services.\nIn July 2016, the bank announced it would cut 3,000 jobs because of the economic downturn as a result of United Kingdom European Union membership referendum. On 17 March 2017, the British Government confirmed its remaining shares in Lloyds Banking Group had been sold.\nIn January 2017, the bank suffered interruptions to its online services originally blamed on \"unspecified technical glitches\". A hacker reportedly claimed responsibility for the attack, demanding around \u00a375,000 from the bank in a \"consultation fee\".\nServices.\nThe bank offers a full range of banking and financial services through a network of 447 branches in England and Wales. Branches in Jersey, Guernsey and the Isle of Man are operated by Lloyds Bank International Limited, while Lloyds Bank (Gibraltar) Limited operates in Gibraltar; both are wholly owned subsidiaries and trade under the Lloyds Bank brand. Lloyds Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by both the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. It is a member of the Financial Ombudsman Service, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme, UK Payments Administration, the British Bankers' Association and subscribes to the Lending Code. The bank uses the following series of sort codes:\u2014\nThe Lloyds Bank Foundation funds local, regional and national charities working to tackle disadvantage across England and Wales. There are separate foundations covering Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Channel Islands.\nOverseas operations.\nThe bank's overseas expansion began in 1911 and, by 1985, it had banking and representative offices in 45 countries, from Argentina to the United States of America.\nLloyds Bank International was absorbed into the main business of Lloyds Bank in 1986. Since 2010, the name has been used to refer to the bank's offshore banking operations.\nSenior leadership.\nThe following list indicates the chairmen and chief executives from the incorporation of Lloyds Banking Corporation in 1865 and the creation of the chief executive position in 1945. The chairman and chief executive of Lloyds Bank is held \"ex-officio\" by the chairman and chief executive of Lloyds Banking Group.\nControversies.\nPayment protection insurance.\nIn November 2005 an investigation by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) highlighted a lack of compliance controls surrounding payment protection insurance (PPI). A second investigation in October 2006 identified further evidence of poor compliance and major PPI providers including Lloyds were fined for not treating customers fairly. In January 2011 a High Court case began which in the following April ruled against the banks, on 5 May 2011 Lloyds withdrew from the legal challenge. In 2012, Lloyds announced that they had set aside \u00a33.6 billion to cover the cost of compensating customers who were mis-sold PPI.\nIn March 2014 it was reported that Lloyds had been reducing the compensation they offered by using a regulatory provision called \"alternative redress\" to assume that customers wrongly sold single-premium PPI policies would have bought a cheaper, regular premium PPI policy instead.\nIn June 2015 the Lloyds Banking Group was fined \u00a3117m for mishandling payment protection insurance claims including many claims being \"unfairly rejected\".\nLinks to arms trade.\nIn December 2008 the British anti-poverty charity War on Want released a report documenting the extent to which the UK high street banks invest in, provide banking services for and lend to arms companies. The report stated that Lloyds TSB is the only high street bank whose corporate social responsibility policy does not mention the arms industry, yet is that industry's second-largest shareholder among high street banks.\nTax evasion.\nIn 2009, the BBC's \"Panorama\" alleged that Lloyds TSB Offshore in Jersey, Channel Islands was encouraging wealthy customers to evade tax. An employee of Lloyds was filmed telling a customer how several mechanisms could be used to make their transactions invisible to the UK tax authorities. This action is also in breach of money laundering regulations in Jersey.\nRetail conduct failings.\nIn December 2013, Lloyds Banking Group had been fined \u00a328m for \"serious failings\" in relation to bonus schemes for sales staff. The Financial Conduct Authority said it was the largest fine that it or the former Financial Services Authority had imposed for retail conduct failings. The bonus scheme pressured staff to hit sales targets or risk being demoted and have their pay cut, the FCA said. Lloyds Bank has accepted the regulator's findings and apologised to its customers.\nDivestment of government-owned shares.\nBased on figures from the National Audit Office, George Osborne's sale of a 6% tranche of Lloyds shares in autumn 2013\u2014despite his claims that the sale had netted a profit\u2014worked out at a loss of at least \u00a3230m for UK taxpayers. However, after the British Government confirmed all its remaining shares had been sold on 17 May 2017, Lloyds Bank said the government had seen a return of \u00a321.2bil on its investment, an approximately \u00a3900m profit.\nLibor rate manipulations.\nIn July 2014, US and UK regulators imposed a combined \u00a3218 million ($370 million) in fines on Lloyds and a number of subsidiaries over the bank's part in the global Libor rate-fixing scandal, and other rate manipulations and false reporting.\nPhishing scams.\nA number of phishing email scams have been engineered in 2015, 2016, 2017, and 2018 into making the recipient believe that they are receiving an email from Lloyds Bank or Lloyds TSB. Though these emails have had nothing to do with the bank per se, they often are sent by official-looking email IDs with the bank's domain name. Typically, they contain an authentication code which is sent as a distractor. The linked pages usually allow the recipient to enter their personal information related to the bank, leading to their bank accounts being hacked.\nIn November 2024, Lloyds Banking Group faces increasing pressure from MPs, business groups, and a staff union to release the full, unredacted findings of the Dame Linda Dobbs review investigating a \u00a31 billion fraud at HBOS, with critics demanding transparency and accountability for the long-delayed report.\nMotor Finance.\nIn October 2024, Lloyds Banking Group scrapped commission payments across its \u00a315bn motor finance arm after a landmark Court of Appeal ruling, which agreed that consumers could not have consented to loans that involved \u201csecret\u201d commission payments to brokers and car dealers. The case was heard in front of the UK Supreme Court in April 2025, with a ruling expected in July. "}
{"id": "714702", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714702", "title": "North England", "text": ""}
{"id": "714703", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714703", "title": "Krasnogorsky District", "text": "Krasnogorsky District (, \"Krasnog\u00f3rskiy raion\") is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The name is generally derived from or related to the collocation \"krasnaya gora\", meaning roughly \"(a) red/beautiful mountain(s)/hill(s)\"."}
{"id": "714705", "revid": "93143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714705", "title": "Naro language", "text": "Naro , also Nharo, is a Khoe language spoken in Ghanzi District of Botswana and in eastern Namibia. It is one of the most-spoken of the Tshu\u2013Khwe languages. Naro is a trade language among speakers of different Khoe languages in Ghanzi District. There exists a dictionary.\nPhonology.\nNaro has the following consonant inventory (in the IPA) as described by Miller (2011), whereas the orthographic symbols were proposed by Visser (2001):\nThe phonemes and (spelt \u27e8kg\u27e9 and \u27e8kg\u02bc\u27e9) only contrast for some speakers: \"kg\u02bc\u00e1m\" \u2018mouth\u2019 vs. \"kg\u02bc\u00e1\u00f9\" \u2018male\u2019. The flap /\u027e/ only occurs word-medially except in loan words. The lateral /l/ is only found in loans, and is generally substituted by medially, and by initially. Medial and may be and ; they occur initially only in \"w\u00e8\u00e9\" \u2018all, both\u2019 and in \"y\u00e8\u00e8\" (an interjection).\nVowels.\nNaro has five vowel qualities, /a e i o u/\",\" which may occur long (/a\u02d0 e\u02d0 i\u02d0 o\u02d0 u\u02d0/ spelt \u27e8aa ee ii oo uu\u27e9)\",\" nasalized \"(/\"\u00e3 \u1ebd \u0129 \u00f5 \u0169/\"),\" pharyngealized \"(\"/a\u02e4 e\u02e4 i\u02e4 o\u02e4 u\u02e4/ , spelt \u27e8a\u0331 e\u0331 i\u0331 o\u0331 u\u0331\u27e9, and combinations of these (/\u00e3\u02e4 \u1ebd\u02d0/ \u27e8\u00e3\u0331 \u1ebde\u27e9 etc.). There are three tones: high, mid, and low\nSyllable structure.\nSyllables are in general simple in Naro, with the maximal shape CV(V)C\",\" where VV is a long vowel or diphthong. The only consonant that occurs in coda position is , as in \"x\u00e1m\u0300\" \u2018to smell\u2019. However, long nasal vowels such as may occur with an excrescent as in . Syllabic also occur, as in \"nna.\" Nasals such as can also form syllable nuclei, as in .\nOrthography.\nNaro orthography uses the Latin alphabet, and is partially based on the systems for Zulu and Xhosa, especially as far as clicks are represented. Digraphs are used for clicks, and to represent affricates. Vowel length is represented by doubling of the vowel, whereas the orthography utilizes the tilde to represent nasality (\u27e8\u00e3 \u1ebd \u0129 \u00f5 \u0169\u27e9), and underline to represent pharyngealization. Tones are written with diacritics both on vowels and nasal consonants, with the exception of the mid tone, which is not represented (e.g. \u27e8\u00e1 a \u00e0 \u1e3f m\u0300 \u0144 \u01f9\u27e9)\".\"\nBelow is an overview of Naro clicks in both orthography and IPA (Visser 2001). The dental click is represented by \"c\". alveolar click by \"q\", palatal click by \"tc\", and lateral click by \"x\". All examples are from Visser (2001).\nDialects.\nNaro is a dialect cluster.\nand possibly \u01c2Haba.\nNaro Language Project.\nThe Naro Language Project is a project currently being undertaken by the Reformed Church in D'kar that aims to describe and develop an understanding of the Naro language, increase literacy by teaching Naro speakers to read and write their language and translate the Bible into Naro. The project was started in the 1980s. The Naro language project has, as of 2007, translated 70% of the Bible into the Naro language.\nNumerals.\nBelow are Naro numerals, from Visser (2001). Only 'one', 'two', and 'three' are native Naro numerals, while the rest have been borrowed from Nama. Orthography is given first, followed by IPA in brackets."}
{"id": "714706", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714706", "title": "Nharo language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714708", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714708", "title": "California state Legislature", "text": ""}
{"id": "714710", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714710", "title": "Weber (unit)", "text": "In physics, the weber ( ; symbol: Wb) is the unit of magnetic flux in the International System of Units (SI). The unit is derived (through Faraday's law of induction) from the relationship (volt-second). A magnetic flux density of 1\u00a0Wb/m2 (one weber per square metre) is one tesla.\nThe weber is named after the German physicist Wilhelm Eduard Weber (1804\u20131891).\nDefinition.\nThe weber may be defined in terms of Faraday's law, which relates a changing magnetic flux through a loop to the electric field around the loop. A change in flux of one weber per second will induce an electromotive force of one volt (produce an electric potential difference of one volt across two open-circuited terminals).\nOfficially:\nThat is:\nformula_1\nOne weber is also the total magnetic flux across a surface of one square meter perpendicular to a magnetic flux density of one tesla; that is,\nformula_2\nExpressed only in SI base units, 1 weber is:\nformula_3\nThe weber is used in the definition of the henry as 1 weber per ampere, and consequently can be expressed as the product of those units:\nformula_4\nThe weber is commonly expressed in a multitude of other units:\nformula_5\nwhere \u03a9 is ohm, C is coulomb, J is joule, and N is newton.\nHistory.\nIn 1861, the British Association for the Advancement of Science (known as \"The BA\") established a committee under William Thomson (later Lord Kelvin) to study electrical units. In a February 1902 manuscript, with handwritten notes of Oliver Heaviside, Giovanni Giorgi proposed a set of rational units of electromagnetism including the weber, noting that \"the product of the volt into the second has been called the \"weber\" by the B. A.\"\nThe International Electrotechnical Commission began work on terminology in 1909 and established Technical Committee 1 in 1911, its oldest established committee, \"to sanction the terms and definitions used in the different electrotechnical fields and to determine the equivalence of the terms used in the different languages.\" \nIn 1930, TC1 decided that the magnetic field strength (H) is of a different nature from the magnetic flux density (B), and took up the question of naming the units for these fields and related quantities, among them the integral of magnetic flux density.\nIn 1935, TC 1 recommended names for several electrical units, including the weber for the practical unit of magnetic flux (and the maxwell for the CGS unit).\nAlso in 1935, TC1 passed responsibility for \"electric and magnetic magnitudes and units\" to the new TC24. This \"led eventually to the universal adoption of the Giorgi system, which unified electromagnetic units with the MKS dimensional system of units, the whole now known simply as the SI system ().\"\nIn 1938, TC24 \"recommended as a connecting link [from mechanical to electrical units] the permeability of free space with the value of This group also recognized that any one of the practical units already in use (ohm, ampere, volt, henry, farad, coulomb, and weber), could equally serve as the fourth fundamental unit. \"After consultation, the ampere was adopted as the fourth unit of the Giorgi system in Paris in 1950.\"\nMultiples.\nLike other SI units, the weber can be modified by adding a prefix that multiplies it by a power of 10."}
{"id": "714711", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714711", "title": "Nharon language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714712", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714712", "title": "Colorado state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714713", "revid": "43682176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714713", "title": "Debbie Meyer", "text": "Deborah Elizabeth Meyer (born August 14, 1952), also known by her married name Deborah Meyer Weber, is an American former competition swimmer, a 1968 three-time Olympic champion, and a former world record-holder in five freestyle events: 200, 400, 800, and 1500 meters, and 880yd freestyle.\nEarly life.\nMeyer was born in 1952 in Annapolis, Maryland, and lived in Haddonfield, New Jersey during childhood. She moved with her family to warm and sunny Sacramento, California when her father was transferred with Campbell Soup. She attended Sacramento's Rio Americano High School, and was trained during her high school years and beyond by Hall of Fame Coach Sherm Chavoor at the Arden Hills Swim Club in Carmichael, as were fellow 1968 U.S. team swimming Olympians Mark Spitz, Michael J. Burton, John Ferris, Sue Peterson, and John Nelson. Chavoor was one of the early coaches to challenge young elite women swimmers with \"overdistance training\", which focused on workouts that gave more total yardage and often featured mid-range and distance intervals to build greater endurance and speed.\nChavoor would also serve as Head Coach of the U.S. Women's Olympic swim team in 1968, where he would again coach Meyer, who may have had greater confidence and focus having Chavoor manage her at the Olympics.\n1968 Mexico City Olympics.\nIn 1968, the women's freestyle races at 200-meter and 800-meter distances were added to the Summer Olympics for the first time, giving Meyer, a freestyle specialist, two new events where she could dominate the competition. Prior to 1968, the longest race for women was the 400-meter freestyle. In contrast, the male competitors had raced the 1,500-meter freestyle (the metric mile) for decades, dating back to 1896.\nDemonstrating unusual dominance in freestyle distance, Meyer set world records in the 200-meter and 800-meter freestyle swimming events at the 1968 U.S. Olympics trials. As the first woman swimmer to participate in the 800-meter Olympic event, Meyer opened the doors for women to compete in events that had been closed to them and demonstrated that with proper training, women could compete at the same distances as the men's teams. \nMeyer had obstacles to overcome in the 1968 Olympics, as she had developed a stomach ailment in Mexico City and had just recovered from a painful bout of bursitis in her left shoulder. Competing as a favorite in all three events, Meyer met and exceeded expectations despite her ailments and took gold in the 200-, 400-, and 800-meter freestyle races, becoming the first swimmer to win three individual gold medals in one Olympics. Katie Ledecky is the only other female swimmer to have won all three events, in the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio. Despite competing at the high altitude of Mexico City, her winning times at the Olympic Games were 2:10.5 for the 200-meter, 4:31.8 for the 400-meter, and 9:24.0 for the 800-meter distances, all of them new or first-time Olympic records. \nWith strong contributions by Meyer, Coach Sherm Chavoor's 1968 U.S. women's Olympic team won ten of a possible fifteen gold medals, eight silver of a possible twelve, and eight bronze of a possible twelve. In total, the U.S. women captured twenty-six medals out of a possible thirty-nine.\nWhile overcoming her problems with asthma, Meyer broke 15 world records in swimming during her career. She broke 24 American records and won 19 Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) national championships. Reluctant to continue training for the 1972 Olympics, Meyer retired from competitive swimming in 1970. She would attend UCLA, but not as a swimmer.\nCoaching and personal.\nMeyer is married to Bill Weber, and has a daughter, son, and step-daughter. She owns the Debbie Meyer Swim School in Carmichael, California. According to the business website, Meyer has taught swimming in the area around Sacramento since the 1970s, and she opened her own school in 1993. Along with teaching both children and adults to be safe in the water, Meyer is coaching the Truckee Tahoe Swim Team in Truckee, California. As a tribute to her athletic successes, she uses the custom California automobile license plate \"3GOLD68\".\nHonors.\nBefitting her many records and achievements in both national and international competition, particularly in the late 1960's, Meyer was the recipient of many honors. In 1968, she won the James E. Sullivan Award, given to the greatest athlete of the year. In 1969, she was named Associated Press Athlete of the Year. As an ongoing honor, she was recognized as \"Swimming World\"'s World Swimmer of the Year in 1967, 1968 and 1969. Among her more selective honors, Meyer was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in 1977, and the United States Olympic Hall of Fame in 1986. \nThese honors may have been bestowed partly as a result of her being the first woman to win three Olympic gold medals, and her continued dedication to the sport of swimming through her years as a coach.\nOn July 5, 2004, Meyer was inducted into the American National High School Hall of Fame."}
{"id": "714714", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714714", "title": "Connecticut state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714718", "revid": "41505608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714718", "title": "Lieutenant Governor of Ohio", "text": "The position of lieutenant governor of Ohio was established in 1852. The lieutenant governor becomes governor if the governor resigns, dies in office or is removed via impeachment conviction. Before 1852, the president of the Ohio State Senate would serve as acting governor if a vacancy in the governorship occurred. Until 1978, lieutenant governors were elected separately but concurrently with the governor (not on a \"ticket\"). Thus, there were several occasions when the lieutenant governor was from a different party than the governor. This was changed by constitutional amendment. In 1974, Richard F. Celeste was the last lieutenant governor to be elected separately. In 1978, George Voinovich became the first lieutenant governor to be elected on the same ticket with the governor.\nFrom 1852 to 1979, the lieutenant governor also served as the president of the Ohio State Senate. More recently, Ohio governors have generally named the lieutenant governor to head an agency of state government. An example of this is Bruce Edward Johnson, who served as Director of the Ohio Department of Development, as did his successor, Lee Fisher. Recent Lt. Governor Mary Taylor was the director of the Ohio Department of Insurance, until she was replaced by Jillian Froment in 2017."}
{"id": "714719", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714719", "title": "Evening paper", "text": ""}
{"id": "714721", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714721", "title": "Nhauru language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714723", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714723", "title": "Nhaurun language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714725", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714725", "title": "//Aikwe language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714729", "revid": "9755426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714729", "title": "Southern England", "text": "Southern England, also known as the South of England or the South, is a sub-national part of England. Officially, it is made up of the southern, south-western and part of the eastern parts of England, consisting of the statistical regions of London, the South East, the South West and the East. The region also shares a border with Wales to the far North West. Altogether, it forms a population of nearly 28 million and an area of .\nSouthern England has cultural, economic and political differences from both the Midlands (which borders it to its north) and the North of England; the Midlands form a dialect chain in a notable north\u2013south divide of England. The South is generally considered wealthier and more politically influential than the North. Within the South itself, multiple influences shape geographic and political divisions, defined by closeness to the capital; Greater London itself, its surrounding Home Counties and outer areas, as well as East Anglia and the West Country. Greater London is by far the most populous county in Southern England, followed by Hampshire, Kent and Essex. On the other hand, Bristol is the largest city in the South excluding London.\nDefinitions.\nFor official purposes, the UK government does not refer to Southern England as a single entity, but the Office for National Statistics divides UK into twelve regions. In England, the North West, North East and Yorkshire and the Humber make up the North (\"centre-north\"); the West Midlands and East Midlands (as well as Wales) make up the Midlands (\"centre-south\") and the rest of England make up the South.\nCulturally speaking, the majority of people think that the South consists of the South East (92%), Greater London (88%), South West (87%), and to lesser extent the East of England (57%). However, 35% of people surveyed placed the East of England as part of the Midlands. Generally people in the North tend to put the East of England in the South more than people in the South or Midlands.\nThe Home Counties identify in a similar way to the neighbouring Midlands, in this case sharing culture with London and the outer areas yet identifying as separate from each.\nGeography.\nThe South contains approximately a quarter of the United Kingdom's area. The geographic split is north-east (fenlands), south (downlands and a coastal plain) and west (following the River Thames to the Bristol channel and a peninsula).\nThe South has land borders with Wales and the English Midlands and a sea border with France, Belgium and the Netherlands.\nThe South is generally more low-lying than the North. There are a number of hill ranges, such as the Cotswolds and the Chilterns. The highest point in the South is High Willhays , located in Devon within Dartmoor National Park.\nLargest cities and settlements.\nLondon is the largest city in the South of England and is the capital of the United Kingdom. The London Metropolitan Area has a population of 14.2 million (2019), making it the largest metropolitan area in Europe.\nThe table below shows the urban areas in the region with a population of at least 250,000.\nDemographics.\nWealth and class.\nBroadly speaking, Southern England is considerably wealthier than the Midlands and the North. The South East England region was found to have the highest concentration of high-wealth families in the country, followed by London. Studies have shown that the areas making up Surrey and Sussex are the wealthiest in Britain based on the value of assets owned by the average resident. Many of the home counties in particular have been considered to be \"posh\", including Surrey, Oxfordshire and Hertfordshire, based on factors such as number of golf clubs, independent schools, and noted \"beautiful\" countryside villages. Additionally, the single wealthiest district in Britain, based on residents's income, is London's Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea. As many as eight of the top ten are districts of London, with the remaining two being Borough of Guildford and Borough of Elmbridge, both within the London commuter belt. The \"least deprived\" neighbourhood in England has been found to be near Amersham in the county of Buckinghamshire, in the South of England.\nHowever, despite overall higher wealth in the regions of Southern England, there also exist highly impoverished areas here. Cornwall, in the South West, is one of the poorest counties in England based on income. The town of Jaywick, in Essex, was found to be England's single most deprived neighbourhood. Many London boroughs were also found to be highly deprived, including Kensington and Chelsea where significant wealth inequality exists. Numerous other districts in the South also ranked among the country's most deprived in these statistics including Swale, Thanet, Hastings and Great Yarmouth.\nLanguage.\nEnglish.\nEnglish is the native language of the English people and the main language spoken in the South. The South of England has a dialect and accent distinct from that of other parts of the UK. Due to the prominence of the South in media and politics, Standard British English is largely based on the English spoken in the South. For example, the standard British accent, Received Pronunciation, is very similar to the educated speech of London, Oxford and Cambridge.\nStandard Southern British English, a \"modern\" form of Received Pronunciation, is now considered to be the most commonly spoken form of English in much of the South. Estuary English has grown to become one of the most spoken dialects in London and counties including Kent and Essex. London's expansion has also affected language and dialect in surrounding areas of Southern England, such as the north-east fenlands in East Anglia; the traditional Cockney dialect's population of London's East End has moved out to the north and east Home Counties with a knock on effect to East Anglia's population, which itself has had its own long time dialect, East Anglian English.\nIn the South West of England, West Country English is a common regional dialect and is the only rhotic dialect spoken in Southern England.\nCornish.\nCornish is a revived language spoken in Cornwall and is an important part of the identity and culture of the Cornish people.\nPeople.\nPeople often apply the terms \"southern\" and \"south\" loosely, without deeper consideration of the geographical identities of Southern England. This can cause confusion over the depth of affiliation between its areas. As in much of the rest of England, people tend to have a deeper affiliation to their county or city. Thus, residents of Essex are unlikely to feel much affinity with people in Oxfordshire. Similarly, there is a strong distinction between natives of the south-west and south-east. The broadcaster Stuart Maconie has noted that culturally \"there's a bottom half of England [...] but there isn't a south in the same way that there's a north\".\nHealth.\nOne major manifestation of the North\u2013South divide is in health and life expectancy statistics. All three Northern England statistical regions have lower than average life expectancies and higher than average rates of cancer, circulatory disease and respiratory disease. The South of England has a higher life expectancy than the North, however, regional differences do seem to be slowly narrowing: between 1991\u20131993 and 2012\u20132014, life expectancy in the North East increased by 6.0 years and in the North West by 5.8 years, the fastest increase in any region outside London, and the gap between life expectancy in the North East and South East is now 2.5 years, down from 2.9 in 1993. Furthermore, all such figures represent an average \u2013 affluent northern towns such as Harrogate have higher life expectancies than less affluent areas of the South such as Southampton or Plymouth.\nEducation.\nThe South of England has a number of world-renowned universities, such as the ancient universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and many Russell Group universities, such as Imperial College London, University of Exeter and the London School of Economics.\nSport.\nFootball.\nThe South Coast Derby is used to describe football matches played mainly between Portsmouth Football Club and Southampton Football Club. However, in Portsmouth's absence from top flight football, AFC Bournemouth and Brighton and Hove Albion \u2013 based about and from Southampton respectively \u2013 gained promotion to the Premier League, with some media outlets marketing fixtures against them as a South Coast derby.\nOther major derbies in Southern England are West Country derbies and London derbies.\nRugby.\nRugby union is the dominant code played in the south with a minor rugby league presence. One of the biggest derbies is the West Country derby (Bath v Gloucester).\nDivisions.\nRegions and ceremonial counties.\nSouthern England consists of four regions and 22 counties: the East of England, London, South East and South West. Ceremonial counties are:\nSouth West:\nSouth East:\nLondon:\nEast:\nHistoric counties.\nThe historic counties ceased to be used for any administrative purpose in 1899 but remain important to some people, notably for county cricket.\nDevolution.\nThere is a network of local enterprise partnerships, some areas are further devolved:\nCatalyst South (strategic alliance):"}
{"id": "714731", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714731", "title": "/Aikwe language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714732", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714732", "title": "Delaware state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714733", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714733", "title": "Higher order logic", "text": ""}
{"id": "714734", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714734", "title": "//Ai//en language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714735", "revid": "1306352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714735", "title": "Quantum system", "text": ""}
{"id": "714736", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714736", "title": "Georgia state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714737", "revid": "73469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714737", "title": "John W. Brown (Ohio politician)", "text": ""}
{"id": "714738", "revid": "433328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714738", "title": "//Aisan language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714739", "revid": "93143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714739", "title": "N\u01c0hai-Ntse\u2019e language", "text": ""}
{"id": "714741", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714741", "title": "Hawaii state Legislature", "text": ""}
{"id": "714742", "revid": "17287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714742", "title": "South England", "text": ""}
{"id": "714743", "revid": "1273126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714743", "title": "Krasnoyarsky District", "text": "Krasnoyarsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "714744", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714744", "title": "Indiana state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714745", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714745", "title": "Maryland state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714746", "revid": "42522270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714746", "title": "Kursky District", "text": "Kursky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "714748", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714748", "title": "Michigan state Legislature", "text": ""}
{"id": "714749", "revid": "50222168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714749", "title": "Spezi", "text": "Spezi () is the brand name for a soft drink first produced by Brauhaus Riegele in Augsburg, Germany. Spezi is a genericized trademark and the name is used as a generic term for a mixture of cola and orange soda in German-speaking countries.\nHistory.\nWhen the brand was registered in 1956, Riegele at first sold beer under the trademark. However, in 1965, Riegele brought out the special mixture of cola and orange soda \"KM\" (for \"Kola-Misch\", translated \"Cola-Mix\" in German). Since 1977, Spezi has been produced and bottled by different local breweries under a franchising agreement. The first TV commercial for Spezi aired in 1989.\nPaulaner also sells Spezi, based on an agreement with Riegele from 1974 that a German court declared still valid in 2022. The same product is available in the United States under the name \"Paulaner Sunset\" since 2024.\nIn 2018, Almdudler acquired the rights to the Spezi brand in Austria. PepsiCo also sells a mixture of cola and orange soda in Germany, Austria and Switzerland called \"Schwip Schwap\" and The Coca-Cola Company has also been producing a mixture of cola and orange soda in Germany since 1973 called \"Mezzo Mix\". Mezzo Mix is also sold under other names in Spain, Belgium, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Most grocery store chains sell generic brand versions of the drink, usually called \"Cola-Mix\".\nIngredients.\nSpezi contains water, glucose-fructose syrup, sugar, orange juice concentrate (2.3%), lemon juice from lemon juice concentrate (0.8%), carbon dioxide, caramel color, phosphoric acid and citric acid, natural flavoring, caffeine, citrus extract, locust bean gum (stabilizer). There are also different versions, including a sugar-free one."}
{"id": "714752", "revid": "1461430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714752", "title": "University of western sydney", "text": ""}
{"id": "714756", "revid": "23129483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714756", "title": "Kuybyshevsky District, Russia", "text": "Kuybyshevsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The districts are generally named for Valerian Kuybyshev, a Soviet statesman."}
{"id": "714761", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714761", "title": "Dalitz Plot", "text": ""}
{"id": "714764", "revid": "12104074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714764", "title": "Leninsky District", "text": "Leninsky District may refer to:"}
{"id": "714765", "revid": "10951369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714765", "title": "European University Association", "text": "The European University Association (EUA) represents more than 800 institutions of higher education in 48 countries, providing them with a forum for cooperation and the exchange of information on higher education and research policies. Members of the Association are European universities involved in teaching and research, national associations of rectors, and other organisations active in higher education and research.\nEUA is the result of a merger between the Association of European Universities and the Confederation of European Union Rectors' Conferences. The merger took place in Salamanca on 31 March 2001.\nMembership.\nThe following is a breakdown of EUA membership between EU and other countries:\nSome universities in Kosovo are listed as \"Individual Full Members\" or \"Individual Associate Members\".\nIn March 2022, the EUA suspended 12 Russian members following the 2022 address of the Russian Union of Rectors (RUR) supporting the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, for being \"diametrically opposed to the European values that they committed to when joining EUA\"."}
{"id": "714769", "revid": "565799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714769", "title": "Edward H. Watson", "text": "Edward Howe Watson (February 28, 1874 \u2013 January 7, 1942) was a career United States Navy officer, who led a squadron of destroyers aground off Point Honda on the California coast in 1923.\nEarly life and marriage.\nWatson was born in Frankfort, Kentucky, a son of U.S. Navy Commander John Crittenden Watson. He married Hermine Cary Gratz, whose half-sister, Helen Gratz, married Godfrey S. Rockefeller of Greenwich, Connecticut.\nNavy career.\nAcademy and early career.\nWatson graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy in June 1895 and served on several ships during the rest of the decade, including Spanish\u2013American War service on board the cruiser . He attended the Naval War College in 1908. Watson commanded the storeship in 1912\u201313, then returned to the Naval War College to attend the long course, graduating in 1914. He also saw duty as executive officer of the battleship and as Commanding Officer of the gunboat .\nWorld War I.\nDuring World War I, he commanded the troop transport USS \"Madawaska\" from August 1917 to January 1918. CAPT Watson was then in command of the battleship , receiving the Navy Cross \"for exceptionally meritorious service in a duty of great responsibility as Commanding Officer of the U.S.S. \"Alabama\" in the Atlantic Fleet\". In March 1919, he became U.S. Naval Attach\u00e9 in Japan, remaining in that post until May 1922. In July of that year, he took command of Destroyer Squadron 11, based on the West Coast.\nHonda Point disaster.\nOn September 8, 1923, dead reckoning navigation errors on Watson's flagship led seven of his squadron's destroyers to ground on the rocky coast at Honda Point, California, a loss that came to be known as the Honda Point Disaster. Watson was convicted at court martial for his role.\nNot all observers agreed with the Navy's decision to punish Watson. In 1960, the authors of \"Tragedy at Honda\" argued that the causes of the tragedy lay in the failure of new technology from a navigational radio station to supply necessary data to ships operating in dense fog, but that Watson displayed outstanding honor and leadership by taking full responsibility, quoting at length the editors of the \"Army and Navy Journal\", who wrote at the time of the court martial:\nPost-Honda Point career and retirement.\nAfter the Honda Point disaster, Captain Watson served as Assistant Commandant of the Fourteenth Naval District in Hawaii until he left active duty in November 1929.\nHe retired to New York City, where he was in the New York Social Register. He and his family spent their summers on Walcott Avenue in Jamestown, Rhode Island, where he was a member of the Conanicut Yacht Club.\nDeath.\nWatson died in 1942 at the Brooklyn Naval Hospital in Brooklyn, New York. He was interred at Arlington National Cemetery."}
{"id": "714771", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714771", "title": "G\u01c0ui dialect", "text": "G\u01c0ui or G\u01c0wi (pronounced in English, and also spelled \"\u01c0Gwi, \u01c0\u1ab6Ui, Dcui, Gcwi,\" or \"Cgui\") is a Khoe dialect of Botswana with 2,500 speakers (2004 Cook). It is part of the G\u01c1ana dialect cluster, and is closely related to Naro. It has a number of loan words from \u01c2\u02bcAmkoe. G\u01c0ui, \u01c2\u02bcAmkoe, and Taa form the core of the Kalahari Basin sprachbund, and share a number of characteristic features, including extremely large consonant inventories.\nPhonology.\nG\u01c0ui has 93 consonants (with 56 clicks) or 52 consonants (and 20 clicks), depending on analysis. There are ten vowels, and two to six tones, again depending on analysis.\nClicks.\nG\u01c0ui has 24 simple click consonants, plus complex clicks variously analyzed as consonant clusters or airstream contours. As with many of the Tshu\u2013Khwe languages, clicks have lost some of their importance under the influence of neighboring Bantu languages. Many words which previously began with clicks (as shown by cognates in related languages) have lost them over the past few centuries in G\u01c0ui. Nonetheless, G\u01c0ui has the largest known inventory of clicks of any Khoe language.\nG\u01c0ui has been described with a contrast between velar and uvular clicks. However, all G\u01c0ui clicks are uvular (or pharyngeal); the 'uvular' part of the latter is part of an airstream contour, a transition from a click to a non-click release: effectively, the click transitions into a non-click consonant. (See N\u01c1ng language for a similar situation in another language.) Nakagawa proposes that the contour and glottalized clicks are not single sounds, but sequences of a click and a uvular or glottal consonant, though Miller (2011) notes that such an analysis creates problems when extended to other languages with clicks.\nAltogether there are thirteen such series, or \"accompaniments\", and all 52 possible combinations are found. Except for the lack of bilabial clicks, the inventory is nearly identical to that of some speakers of \u01c2\u02bcAmkoe, which is in intense contact with G\u01c0ui and may have borrowed some of its clicks from G\u01c0ui, and lost others not found in G\u01c0ui.\nMiller (2011), in a comparative study with other languages, interprets Nakagawa's description as follows. (Nakagawa's and are analyzed as and , respectively.)\nThe voiced contour ('uvular') clicks tend to be prenasalized, .\nAs in the majority of languages with clicks, the glottalized nasal series are pronounced with a glottal release in initial position, and prenasalized after a vowel. The contrast between glottalized oral and glottalized nasal clicks is unusual, but has also been reported from \u01c2\u02bcAmkoe and Yeyi since Nakagawa announced its discovery in G\u01c0ui. The Khute dialect of G\u01c0ui also has preglottalized nasal clicks allophonically. They developed from glottalized nasal clicks before pharyngealized vowels, perhaps under \u01c2\u02bcAmkoe influence:\nOther consonants.\nMost words are of the form CV, CVV, CVCV, CVN, where C stands for a consonant, V for a vowel, and N for a nasal consonant /m, n/. In CVCV words, only a limited set of consonants // may occur in medial position (the second syllable). Of these, two // may not occur at the beginning of a word, and due to restrictions with nasal vowels may be argued to be allophonic. The // is pronounced after a lateral click or a pharyngeal vowel. only occurs in mimesis. occurs in a single word, \"t'aa\" 'to carve', which is not widely known.\nThe palatals, which are unique among Khoisan languages to G\u01c1ana-G\u01c0ui, derive historically from the alveolars before non-pharyngealized vowels. In G\u01c1ana this shift has only partly occurred.\n and have also been analyzed as and , the ejective homologues of and . However, their pronunciation is and .\nVowels.\nG\u01c0ui has five modal vowels, , three nasal vowels, , and two pharyngeal vowels, . There are diphthongs and , but they are allophones of . G\u01c0ui also has breathy-voice vowels, but they are described as part of the tone system.\nOnly the five modal vowels occur in monomoraic (CV or V) roots, which except for the noun \"\u03c7\u00f2\" 'thing, place, case' are all grammatical morphemes. These are reduced to three nasal vowels after nasal consonants, including the glottalized nasal clicks.\nThe modal vowels and the pharyngeal vowels, , occur as the first vowel (V1) of bimoraic roots, CVCV, CVV, and CVN, though the modal vowels are reduced to before a nasal coda, CVN. This corresponds to in G\u01c1ana. Pharyngeal and are also in complementary distribution: in CVV words and in CVCV and CVN words; some speakers use in CVV roots too, so that their pharyngeal vowels are reduced to .\nThe modal and nasal vowels (but not the pharyngeals) occur as the second vowel (V2) of bimoraic roots, CVCV or CVV, though only modal vowels may follow the medial consonants , and only nasal vowels follow the medial consonants . Either oral or nasal vowels may follow or null (CVV roots). That is, medial may be seen as allophones of .\nThe initial consonant (C1) may be any but . The medial consonant (C2) may be . N may be .\nThere are other vowel restrictions. V1 is always in CVCV words when C1 is non-click palatal, for example. (This is because those sounds arose historically from alveolars followed by , which are still found in Naro.) Uvular(ized) consonants cause vowel lowering.\nTone.\nG\u01c0ui may be analyzed as having two abstract phonemic tones, plus breathy voice, which is covered here rather than under vowels.\nMonosyllabic morphemes carry one of two tones, high and low. Bimoraic roots carry one of six tones: high-level, high-mid (or \"high falling\"), mid-low (or \"mid\"), low-mid dipping/rising, high falling (or \"falling\"), and low falling (or \"low\"). Low falling and low-mid are accompanied by a breathy voice phonation, the other four with a clear phonation. The high and low falling tones form a natural class, triggering for example a high tone on the suffix -si, whereas the other four root tones trigger a low tone on -si.\nThat is, there are two tones on CV and V roots; two tones on bimoraic roots with breathy vowels, one of them falling; and four tones on bimoraic roots with other vowels, one of them falling. Thus there are four phonemic tones on CVCV, CVV, and CVN roots, the number expected if there are two possible tones on each mora, with moraic N carrying tone, though their contours are not simple juxtapositions of high/low + high/low."}
{"id": "714777", "revid": "668752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714777", "title": "Brother Twelve", "text": ""}
{"id": "714784", "revid": "50590189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714784", "title": "Coulsdon South railway station", "text": "Coulsdon South railway station serves Coulsdon in the London Borough of Croydon, and is in London fare zone 6, on the Brighton Main Line. It is measured from . The station is served by Southern and by Thameslink. It is the most southerly mainline station in London.\nHistory.\nCoulsdon is on a stretch of line between Croydon and Redhill which the UK Parliament insisted should be shared by the London and Brighton Railway (L&amp;BR) route to Brighton, and the South Eastern Railway (SER) route to Dover. As a result, there have been a number of railway stations at Coulsdon.\nCoulsdon South.\nThis station was opened by the South Eastern Railway (SER) on 1 October 1889. The line is on a steep gradient climbing towards Merstham Tunnel. It is from , and has two platforms each long enough for a 12-coach train. It was originally called Coulsdon and Cane Hill, referring to the nearby psychiatric hospital: a covered way connected the station to the hospital. By the 1960s, the covered way had been removed.\nTicketing.\nThe station remains staffed for most of the operational day, with a booking office located on the up (west) side of the station. At the entrance to the ticket office from the station approach road, there are two self-service ticket machines. Automatic Ticket Barriers were installed at the station in 2011.\nMiscellaneous.\nOn 16 January 1985, David Bowie's schizophrenic half-brother, Terry, died by suicide when he walked in front of a train at Coulsdon South railway station.\nIn May 2019, work began to install a new accessible footbridge with lifts and tactile paving. The work was completed in August 2020 having been delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.\nServices.\nServices at Coulsdon South are operated by Southern and Thameslink using and EMUs.\nThe typical off-peak service in trains per hour is:\nOn Sundays, the service between London and Reigate reduces to hourly. In addition, the Peterborough to Horsham service also reduces to hourly and northbound, runs only as far as London Bridge\nConnections.\nLondon Buses routes 60, 404, 405, 463 and night route N68 serve the station."}
{"id": "714791", "revid": "50697950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714791", "title": "Ali\u02bbi", "text": "The were the traditional nobility of the Hawaiian islands. They were part of a hereditary line of rulers, the . There were many classes of (or chief) and the position could be held by a man or a woman. \nCognates of the word have a similar meaning in other Polynesian languages; in M\u0101ori it is and in Tahitian .\nBackground.\nIn ancient Hawaiian society, the were hereditary nobles (a social class or caste). The consisted of the higher and lesser chiefs of the various levels on the islands. The were the ruling chiefs. The were believed to be descended from the deities.\nThere were eleven classes of , of both men and women. These included the (priestesses and priests, experts, craftsmen, and canoe makers) as part of four professions practiced by the nobility. Each island had its own , who governed their individual systems. continued to play a role in the governance of the Hawaiian islands until 1893, when Queen Lili\u02bbuokalani was overthrown by a coup d'\u00e9tat backed by the United States government.\nIn Hawaiian, means 'grand', 'great', or 'supreme', so were ruling chiefs. The title could be passed on by right of birth.\nSocial designations of (ruling line).\nHistorians David Malo, Samuel M. Kamakau and Abraham Fornander wrote extensively about the different lines and their importance to Hawaiian history. The distinctions between the ranks and lines comes from their writings.\nOne line descended from Moana K\u0101ne, son of Ke\u0101kealanik\u0101ne, became secondary to the Kamehameha rulers of the kingdom and were responsible for various ('service tasks'). Members of this line married into the Kamehamehas, including Charles Kana\u02bbina and Kek\u016bana\u014d\u02bba. Some bore , royal standards made of feathers, and were attendants of the higher-ranking . During the monarchy some of these chiefs were elevated to positions within the primary political bodies of the Hawaiian legislature and the king's Privy Council. All Hawaiian monarchs after Kamehameha III were the children of Kaukauali\u02bbi fathers who married higher ranking wives."}
{"id": "714794", "revid": "48143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714794", "title": "Ulus (term)", "text": ""}
{"id": "714795", "revid": "17287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714795", "title": "Roger Maurice Knapman", "text": ""}
{"id": "714796", "revid": "1273126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714796", "title": "Lensky District", "text": "Lensky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "714797", "revid": "353866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714797", "title": "Hawai\u02bbi State Library", "text": "The Hawaii State Library is a historic building in Honolulu, Hawaii, United States, that serves as the seat of the Hawaii State Public Library System, the only statewide library system and one of the largest in the United States. The Hawaii State Library building is located in downtown Honolulu, adjacent to Iolani Palace and the Hawaii State Capitol. Originally funded by Andrew Carnegie, the building was designed by architect Henry D. Whitfield. Groundbreaking took place in 1911 and construction was completed in 1913. In 1978, the building was added to the National Register of Historic Places, as a contributing property within the Hawaii Capital Historic District.\nThe building holds over 525,000 cataloged books. The entire Hawaii State Public Library System has a collection of over 3 million books. Nearby is the Hawaii State Archives which holds book collections of historical significance to Hawaii. The Edna Allyn Children's Room houses murals by artist Juliette May Fraser depicting Hawaiian legends while the garden courtyard features a mosaic of ocean currents by Hiroki Morinoue. Barbara Hepworth's cast bronze sculptures, named \"Parent I\" and \"Young Girl\", greet visitors at the lawn in front of the building.\nHistory.\nBefore the Hawaii State Library was constructed, library facilities were provided by the Honolulu Library and Reading Room Association, founded in 1879 by the Kingdom of Hawaii. Prior to this, the site was the location of H\u0101li\u02bbimaile, the residence of Boki and Liliha and later, Victoria Kam\u0101malu and her father and brothers before they ascended Kamehameha IV and Kamehameha V. Hawaii's royalty (King Kalakaua, Queen Kapiolani, Queen Emma, and Princess Bernice Pauahi Bishop) gave both financial support and their personal book collections to the association. King Kalakaua also provided tax exemptions and a land grant for a permanent site in downtown Honolulu.\nThe Hawaii State Library was funded by a grant from Andrew Carnegie. The Library met the government-related requirements for the grant with the cooperation of Walter F. Frear. Edna Allyn was the head librarian when it opened in 1913.\nIn 1921, the County Library Law established separate libraries on the islands of Kauai, Maui, and Hawaii, under minimal supervision by the Library of Hawaii, which restricted its services to Oahu. Even so, the latter quickly outgrew its quarters. In 1927, the Territorial legislature approved funding to expand and renovate the building. Construction was completed in 1930. Architect C.W. Dickey tripled its size by new wings to create an open-air courtyard in the center.\nAfter statehood in 1959, the Hawaii State Legislature created the Hawaii State Public Library System, the only statewide system in the United States, with the Hawaii State Library building as its flagship branch. Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, the library continued to outgrow its facility. In 1990, it funded a second major renovation and expansion, which was completed in 1992. The renovations addressed air-conditioning, roofing, asbestos removal, plumbing, better access for the handicapped, and landscaping, while the expansion added a large wing to the rear of the building that blended well with the older wings.\nLibrary development in Hawaii.\nThe library system of Hawaii State Library, which was established in June 1965, called for a new concept of organization that had to be created by the state librarian. This system would provide complete service to all aspects of society. Ideas were sourced from other established libraries and organizations, then integrated to create best practices for the library system. Although the Library System is an independent State agency, the state librarian is appointed by the Board of Education, and reports directly to the Superintendent of Education. Other government agencies that the state librarian reports to are the seven appointed School Advisory Councils, the four Library Advisory Commissions, and others that are engaged in education. The state librarian is responsible for the operation, planning, programming, and budgeting of all public libraries within the State; however, there are no local funds in Hawaii, and as such, the governor and legislature approve the funding and budget of the State Library."}
{"id": "714800", "revid": "159678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714800", "title": "Minnesota state Legislature", "text": ""}
{"id": "714802", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714802", "title": "Missouri state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714814", "revid": "266416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714814", "title": "Debby Meyer", "text": ""}
{"id": "714817", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714817", "title": "Stuttgart Region", "text": "Stuttgart Region (Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, Germany) is an urban agglomeration at the heart of the Stuttgart Metropolitan Region. It consists of the city of Stuttgart and the surrounding districts of Ludwigsburg, Esslingen, B\u00f6blingen, Rems-Murr and G\u00f6ppingen (each 10\u201320\u00a0km from Stuttgart city center). About 2.7 million inhabitants live in that area (3,700\u00a0km2). In fact, with 708 people per square kilometre, the Stuttgart Region () is one of the most densely populated areas in Germany. Stuttgart Region is governed by a directly elected parliament.\nSituated at the heart of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, the \"Stuttgart Region\" is the hub of economic, scientific, and political life in Southwest Germany. The area currently has Germany's highest density of scientific, academic and research organisations, and tops the national league for patent applications.\nGeography.\nFrom northwest to southeast the region is 90 kilometers long and from southwest to northeast 80 kilometers. The size of the area is 3.654\u00a0km2. According to calculations made by the land surveying office, the geographical center is located in the south of the district Rems-Murr a few hundred meters east from the village Weinstadt-Str\u00fcmpfelbach in a vineyard. An erratic placed after the vine field reform - the so-called \"Vogelstein\" - lays by accident almost exactly in that center.\nThe Neckar flows through the region for about 90 kilometers, of which about 70 kilometers are navigable waterway. The longest tributary in the region is the Fils (50\u00a0km), followed by Murr (45\u00a0km), the Rems (35\u00a0km) and the Enz (30\u00a0km).\nTopographically the Region lays between 170 m above sea level (Neckar near Kirchheim am Neckar) and 835 m above sea level (swabian albs plateau near Hohenstadt).\nDemographics.\nAbout 2.7 million people live in the Stuttgart Region, which corresponds to a quarter of the entire population of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg at about on tenth of its size. 749 people/km2 is the regions average population density.\nThe numbers of inhabitants are census results (\u00b9) or official updates of the statistical state office of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg (only primary residence).\nVerband Region Stuttgart.\nThe Verband Region Stuttgart (VRS) a public body, is as one of 12 regional associations in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg political and administrative instance of the Stuttgart Region. Its predecessor is the \"Regionalverband Mittlerer Neckar\" founded in 1973 which was renamed to \"Regionalverband Stuttgart\" in 1992. By law it was transferred into the \"Verband Region Stuttgart\" on February, 7th 1994. Thereby the new association besides the regional planning, received additional tasks and has as the only regional association in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg a directly elected parliament. The \"regional assembly of the Verband Region Stuttgart\" is elected every five years.\nFurther association bodies besides the regional assembly are the honorary chairman elected by the assembly out of its members for 5 years and the regional director elected for 8 years who is temporary full-time public official. The regional director represents the association and leads the Administration. His office is located in the associations office in Stuttgart. The association additionally has an office in Brussels.\nThe Budget of the VRS for 2016 was 389 million Euro (2015: 323 million Euro).\nTasks.\nImportant compulsory tasks of the VRS are amongst others:\nSpatial Planning.\nThe VRS is the representative for the regional spatial planning (regional planning). Most important tool herefore is the regional plan according to \u00a7 9 ROG. This plan names the following central places.\nTransport.\nThe VRS is responsible for the regional transport planning and the regional significant local public transport. In the regional transport plan it makes forecasts of the traffic development for longer periods of time and names and evaluates urgent measures to cope with traffic. The VRS is sponsor of the S-Bahn Stuttgart and stakeholder of the Verkehrs- und Tarifverbund Stuttgart (VVS). Moreover, he co-finances Stuttgart 21.\nOut of the 323 million Euro in the budget of 2015, 300.4 million Euro went to the transport budget. Of those, 80.5 Million Euro was for the operation of the S-Bahn, the Schuster and the small Teckbahn.\nAccording to a financing agreement the VRS receives for the S-Bahn Stuttgart 9,1 % of the states regionalization budget from 2018 until 2031, 88 million Euro in 2018.\nEconomic promotion.\nIn order to exercise as required by law, the regionally important task of economic promotion, the VRS founded together with other Stakeholders the die \"Wirtschaftsf\u00f6rderung Region Stuttgart GmbH (in 1995).\" Besides the recruitment and the guidance of companies which want to locate in the Stuttgart Region (Exogenic economic promotion) the about 50 employees of WRS consult and assist within the scope of site development already locally based companies (endogenous economic promotion).\nBesides the classical economic promotion in the narrower sense (e.g. through the marketing of industry sites, guidance of investors at their search for a location as well as location marketing) one focus is on the economic promotion activities of the Stuttgart Region and the Support of certain business clusters. Amongst others.:\nIn order to support these Clusters, the WRS initiates, coordinates and mentors the WRS branch networks (e.g. the \"Clusterinitiative Automotive CARS\", the \"MedienInitiative Region Stuttg\"art or the \"Initiative Open Source Region Stuttgart\"), organises Symposiums (as for example the annual fuel cell congress f-cell) and gathers and publishes a variety of branch information.\nIn order to promote the employer attractiveness of the regions small and medium-sized employers to the pupils, students and graduates, the Wirtschaftsf\u00f6rderung Region Stuttgart GmbH hosts an online Stuttgart Region employer directory. There organizations have the possibility to present themselves and their current offers for junior employees.\nIn order to improve the knowledge transfer and contacts between industry and science, 15 competence and Innovation Centers have been established in the Region within which organisations, universities and research facilities work together interdisciplinary on industries related projects. Examples for such competence and Innovation Centers are the Virtual Dimension Center (VDC, competence Center for virtual reality in Fellbach), the Kompetenznetzwerk Mechatronik in G\u00f6ppingen, the Packaging Excellence Center (PEC, competence Center for packaging and automation technology) in Waiblingen or the Software center B\u00f6blingen/Sindelfingen.\nFurther activities aim at the supply of skilled employees (for example through advancing the compatibility of family and careers and model projects on professional development). As well as the support of company foundations (for example through the partner network \"Partnernetz f\u00fcr Unternehmensgr\u00fcndungen aus Stuttgarter Hochschulen (PUSH)\" or the agency of founders and private Investors; see also Business Angels). In order to sponsor the music and film industry the Region has established two separate institutions: The \"Film Commission Region Stuttgart\" and the \"Popb\u00fcro Region Stuttgart\".\nHonorary Chairmans.\nThe designations were: 1974\u20131994 \u201eVorsitzender des Regionalverbands Mittlerer Neckar\u201c respectively \u201eVorsitzender des Regionalverbands Stuttgart\u201c; since 1994 \u201eVorsitzender des Verbands Region Stuttgart\u201c.\nRegional Directors.\nThe designations were: 1974\u20131994 \"Verbandsdirektor des Regionalverbands Mittlerer Neckar\" respectively \"Verbandsdirektor des Regionalverbands Stuttgart\"; since 1994 \"Regionaldirektor des Verbands Region Stuttgart\".\nInfrastructure.\nThe Stuttgart Region is accessed through a dense roadenetwork of controlled access highways (Autobahn), federal Highway (Bundesstra\u00dfen), district roads (Kreisstrassen). The Bundesstra\u00dfen, enhanced to four to six lanes run in a star pattern towards the states capital. There are only few efficient tangential Connections. The two Autobahns A 8 and A 81 meet in the Region at the Leonberg triangle, one of the most used Autobahn junctions in Germany. Stuttgarter Hauptbahnhof, the main railway station is hub for the long-distance, regional and S-Bahn-Verkehr. Within a radius of 100\u00a0km you thereby can reach about 12 million people. Stuttgart Airport has become a European hub for almost 60 airlines. 10 Million passengers use it annually and 65,000 tons of air freight is shipped here. Flights are offered to over 120 destinations in more than 40 countries. Through the Stuttgarter Harbour the Region is connected to the inner German and western European waterway network. Cargo ships with a tonnage of up to 2,800 t are loaded and unloaded here daily. In order to accommodate the large number of commuters in the Region and relieve the roads, the Verkehrs- und Tarifverbund Stuttgart (VVS) offers, counting only the S-Bahn already a network of 215\u00a0km length and Services 83 stops.\nThe leisure traffic accumulates the majority of the distances taken by the regions 2.7 Million inhabitants. About 800,000 People, roundabout three quarters of the socially insured employees, do not work where they live.\nEconomic significance.\nThe Gross Domestic Product for Stuttgart Region was recorded at about \u20ac35,000 per capita, about \u20ac64,000 per employed person and \u20ac120 billion total. The unemployment rate is 4.8 per cent. Stuttgart Region is one of Europe's economic centres. This is due not only to the influence of international companies, such as Daimler, Porsche, Robert Bosch, Celesio, Hewlett-Packard and IBM (all of whom have their world or German headquarters here), but also to the influence of medium-sized enterprises such as Behr, K\u00e4rcher, M\u00e4rklin, Stihl, Festo, and Trumpf. In total, approximately 150,000 companies are located in the Stuttgart Region. 24 per cent of employees in the Stuttgart Region work in the high-tech sector \u2013 a European record.\nThe \"Verband Region Stuttgart\" as a political entity is responsible for regional transportation planning and for the basic network of public transport in Stuttgart Region.\nResearch and development.\nOut of the total Investments in R&amp;D of German companies, more than 10% is invested by companies from the Stuttgart Region, which is one of the reasons for its leading high patent application amount. Two institutes of the Max Planck Society, six of the Fraunhofer Society, for industrial development institutes where several companies work together, one large research institution, 88 transfer centers of the Steinbeis foundation for economic Promotion and many research facilities at Universities and Universities of Applied sciences are located in the region..\nAdministrative District of Stuttgart.\nStuttgart Region shouldn't be confused with the Administrative District of Stuttgart.\nThe German state of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg is sub-divided into four districts:\nStuttgart Region is part of the \"Administrative District of Stuttgart\" (Regierungsbezirk Stuttgart, 4 million inhabitants, 11,000\u00a0km2).\nStuttgart Metropolitan Area.\nThe Stuttgart Metropolitan Area (pop. 5.3 million), according to the definition of the European Union, is neither identical with the \"inner\" Stuttgart Region nor with the Administrative District of Stuttgart.\nThe Stuttgart Metropolitan Area consists i.a. of the following larger cities (approx. 50\u00a0km from Stuttgart City Center):\nand their surrounding counties.\nMaps.\nmap of Baden-W\u00fcrttembergLeft: Stuttgart Region - Right: Stuttgart Administrative District\nTourism.\nA selection of regional attractions:"}
{"id": "714819", "revid": "57108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714819", "title": "2000 Millennium celebration terrorist attacks plot", "text": ""}
{"id": "714824", "revid": "44328505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714824", "title": "Nitrofurantoin", "text": "Nitrofurantoin, sold under the brand name Macrobid among others, is an antibacterial medication of the nitrofuran class. It is used primarily to treat lower urinary tract infections (UTIs) but it is also used in bladder infections. It is not indicated for kidney infections nor is it as effective for them. It is taken by mouth.\nCommon side effects include nausea, loss of appetite, diarrhea, and headaches. Rarely numbness, lung problems, or liver problems may occur. While it appears to be generally safe during pregnancy its use is not recommended near time of delivery. While it usually works by slowing bacterial growth, it may result in bacterial death at the high concentrations found in urine, provided forced fluid dilution of urine is avoided.\nAs the name or branding suggests, nitrofurantoin (due to the brand name macrobid) should be taken twice per day, or bis in die (B.I.D.). Nitrofurantoin was first sold in 1953. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication. In 2023, it was the 143rd most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 3million prescriptions.\nMedical uses.\nUrinary tract infections.\nUses of nitrofurantoin include the treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infections (UTIs) and prophylaxis against UTIs in people prone to recurrent UTIs. It is a first-line therapy for acute uncomplicated cystitis. It is not recommended for empiric treatment of hospital-acquired UTIs.\nIncreasing bacterial antibiotic resistance to other commonly used agents, such as trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and fluoroquinolones, has led to increased interest in using nitrofurantoin in the contemporary treatment of UTIs. The efficacy of nitrofurantoin in treating UTIs combined with a low rate of bacterial resistance to this agent makes it one of the first-line agents for treating uncomplicated UTIs as recommended by the Infectious Diseases Society of America and the European Society for Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.\nIn meta-analyses of clinical trials, nitrofurantoin has shown clinical UTI cure rates of 79 to 92% and bacterial eradication rates of 80 to 92%. Treatment with nitrofurantoin for 7days was not more effective than treatment for 5days, whereas treatment for 5days was superior to treatment for 3days (which showed clinical cure rates of 61\u201370%). The effectiveness of nitrofurantoin for 5days is equivalent to that with single-dose fosfomycin.\nAs a prophylactic against UTIs, nitrofurantoin was similarly effective to other antibiotics, with a UTI risk ratio of 0.38. Taken daily long-term as a prophylactic, there were no differences in effectiveness between different doses of nitrofurantoin (50mg/day, 75mg/day, 100mg/day, or 50mg twice daily). Although similarly effective as other antibiotics, prophylactic nitrofurantoin showed an increased risk of adverse effects compared to other antibiotics (risk ratios = 2.17 to 2.24). The adverse effects of nitrofurantoin were mostly gastrointestinal in nature.\nOther bacterial infections.\nNitrofurantoin is not recommended for the treatment of pyelonephritis (kidney infection), and intra-abdominal abscess, because of extremely poor tissue penetration and low blood levels.\nNitrofurantoin appears likely to minimally penetrate the prostate gland. As such, nitrofurantoin is not recommended for eradication of chronic bacterial prostatitis. In any case, in men with antibiotic-refractory or relapsing chronic bacterial prostatitis, prophylactic nitrofurantoin may be useful in preventing UTIs and managing symptoms. However, supporting data were lacking as of 2020.\nAntibacterial activity.\nNitrofurantoin has been shown to have good activity against:\nIt is used in the treatment of infections caused by these organisms.\nMany or all strains of the following genera are resistant to nitrofurantoin:\nSpecial populations.\nPregnancy.\nNitrofurantoin is pregnancy category A in Australia. It is one of the few drugs commonly used in pregnancy to treat UTIs. There is a potential risk of hemolytic anemia in the newborn when used near time of delivery. Newborns of women given this drug late in pregnancy had a higher risk of developing neonatal jaundice.\nEvidence of safety in early pregnancy is mixed as of 2017. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists states that while they can be used in the first trimester other options may be preferred. They remain a first line treatment in the second trimester. A 2015 meta analysis found no increased risk from first trimester use in cohort studies that was a slight increase of malformations in case control studies.\nContraindications.\nNitrofurantoin is contraindicated in patients with decreased renal function (CrCl &lt; ) due to systemic accumulation and subtherapeutic levels reached in the urinary tract. However, a retrospective chart review suggests the data for this cutoff are slim and a cutoff of CrCl &lt; would be more appropriate. Many of the severe side effects of this drug are more common in the elderly and those with renal impairment, as this causes the drug to be retained in the body and reach higher systemic levels. Thus, the drug is not recommended for the elderly population according to 2012 AGS Beers Criteria.\nNitrofurantoin is also contraindicated in babies up to the age of one month, as they have immature enzyme systems in their red blood cells (glutathione instability), so nitrofurantoin must not be used because it can cause haemolytic anaemia. Nitrofurantoin is contraindicated in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD) because of risk of intravascular hemolysis resulting in anemia.\nAdverse effects.\nThe most common side effects of nitrofurantoin are nausea, headache, and flatulence. Less common adverse events (occurring in less than 1% of those taking the drug) include:\nTaken daily long-term as a prophylactic, side effects of nitrofurantoin occur at rates of 0 to 29%. They are generally mild, reversible, and are predominantly gastrointestinal.\nLung toxicity.\nPulmonary toxicity caused by nitrofurantoin can be categorized into acute, subacute, and chronic pulmonary reactions. The acute and subacute reactions are thought to be due to a hypersensitivity reaction and often resolve when the drug is discontinued. Acute reactions have been estimated to occur in about one in 5000 women who take the drug. These reactions usually develop 3\u20138 days after the first dose of nitrofurantoin, but may occur from a few hours to a few weeks after starting the drug. Symptoms include fever, dyspnea, chills, cough, pleuritic chest pain, headache, back pain, and epigastric pain. Chest radiograph will often show unilateral or bilateral infiltrates similar to pulmonary edema.\nChronic pulmonary reactions caused by nitrofurantoin include diffuse interstitial pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, or both. This uncommon reaction may occur 1 month to 6 years after starting the drug and is usually related to its total lifetime dose. This reaction manifests with progressive shortness of breath. It is important to recognize nitrofurantoin as possible cause of symptoms and discontinue the drug when the suspicion of pulmonary side effects arises as it can be reversible if the drug is stopped early.\nLiver toxicity.\nNitrofurantoin can be hepatotoxic in rare circumstances. Symptoms include hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, chronic active hepatitis, and hepatic necrosis.\nNeuropathy.\nNeuropathy is a rare side effect of taking nitrofurantoin. Patients may experience numbness and tingling in a stocking-glove pattern, which may or may not improve upon discontinuation of the drug.\nGut microflora.\nNitrofurantoin has been found to modify the gut microbiota composition. Effects in three clinical studies have included increased abundance of Actinobacteria, \"Bifidobacterium\" species, and \"Clostridium\" species, decreased abundance of \"Faecalibacterium\" species, and no changes. Similarly to other antibiotics, nitrofurantoin has been associated with increased risk of \"Clostridioides difficile\" infection and associated diarrhea. However, this was based on a single study in which only two cases occurred. Other sources state that nitrofurantoin has a low risk of \"Clostridioides difficile\" infection.\nInteractions.\nNitrofurantoin has historically been reported to be a disulfiram-like drug and to produce alcohol intolerance-type reactions when combined with alcohol. However, subsequent clinical studies failed to replicate these findings and the earlier results have been deemed erroneous.\nPharmacology.\nOrganisms are said to be susceptible to nitrofurantoin if their minimum inhibitory concentration is 32 \u03bcg/mL or less. The peak blood concentration of nitrofurantoin following an oral dose of nitrofurantoin 100mg is less than 1\u03bcg/mL and may be undetectable. Its bioavailability is about 90% and the urinary excretion is 40%. Tissue penetration is negligible. The drug is well concentrated in the urine: 75% of the dose is rapidly metabolised by the liver, but 25% of the dose is excreted in the urine unchanged, reliably achieving levels of 200\u03bcg/mL or more. In studies of dogs, the majority of urinary excretion is through glomerular filtration with some tubular secretion. There is also tubular absorption which is increased with urine acidification. However the activity of nitrofurantoin is also pH dependent and mean inhibitory concentration rises sharply with increased pH above 6. Nitrofurantoin cannot be used to treat infections other than simple cystitis.\nAt the concentrations achieved in urine (&gt;100\u03bcg/mL), nitrofurantoin is a bactericide. It is bacteriostatic against most susceptible organisms at concentrations less than 32\u03bcg/mL.\nNitrofurantoin and the quinolone antibiotics are mutually antagonistic \"in vitro\". It is not known whether this is of clinical significance.\nResistance to nitrofurantoin may be chromosomal or plasmid-mediated and involves inhibition of nitrofuran reductase. Acquired resistance in \"E. coli\" continues to be rare.\nNitrofurantoin and its metabolites are excreted mainly by the kidneys. In renal impairment, the concentration achieved in urine may be subtherapeutic.\nMechanism of action.\nNitrofurantoin is concentrated in the urine, leading to higher and more effective levels in the urinary tract than in other tissues or compartments. With a oral dose, plasma levels are typically less than while in the urine it reaches .\nThe drug works by damaging bacterial DNA, since its reduced form is highly reactive. This is made possible by the rapid reduction of nitrofurantoin inside the bacterial cell by flavoproteins (nitrofuran reductase) to multiple reactive intermediates that attack ribosomal proteins, DNA, respiration, pyruvate metabolism and other macromolecules within the cell. Nitrofurantoin exerts greater effects on bacterial cells than mammalian cells because bacterial cells activate the drug more rapidly. It is not known which of the actions of nitrofurantoin is primarily responsible for its bactericidal activity. The broad mechanism of action for nitrofurantoin is likely responsible for the low development of resistance to its effects, as it affects many different processes important to the bacterial cell.\nHistory.\nA method for preparing Nitrofurantoin was patented in 1952. It has been available for the treatment of lower UTIs since 1953.\nSociety and culture.\nBrand names.\nNitrofurantoin is marketed under many names in countries worldwide.\nAnimal feed.\nResidues from the breakdown of nitrofuran veterinary antibiotics, including nitrofurantoin, have been found in chicken in Vietnam, China, Brazil, and Thailand. The European Union prohibited the use of nitrofurans in food producing animals by classifying it in ANNEX IV (list of pharmacologically active substances for which no maximum residue limits can be fixed) of the Council Regulation 2377/90. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States has prohibited furaltadone since February 1985 and withdrew the approval for the other nitrofuran drugs (except some topical uses) in January 1992. The topical use of furazolidone and nitrofurazone was prohibited in 2002. Australia prohibited the use of nitrofurans in food production in 1992. Japan did not allocate MRLs for nitrofurans leading to the implementation of a \"zero tolerance or no residue standard\". In Thailand, the Ministry of Health issued in 2001 Proclamation No. 231 MRL of veterinary drug in food which did not allocate MRL for nitrofurans. The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives had already prohibited importation and use of furazolidone and nitrofurazone in animal feed in 1999 which was extended to all nitrofurans in 2002. Several metabolites of nitrofurans, such as furazolidone, furaltadone and nitrofurazone cause cancer or genetic damage in rats."}
{"id": "714828", "revid": "42695817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714828", "title": "Maureen Reagan", "text": "Maureen Elizabeth Reagan (January 4, 1941 \u2013 August 8, 2001) was an American political activist and the first child of U.S. president Ronald Reagan and his first wife, actress Jane Wyman. Her younger brother was Michael Reagan and her half-siblings were Patti Davis and Ron Reagan, from her father's second marriage (to Nancy Reagan).\nEarly life.\nReagan was born January 4, 1941, in Los Angeles, where she was raised. She graduated from Marymount Secondary School, Tarrytown, New York, in 1958 and briefly attended Marymount University in Virginia. She worked for Walker &amp; Dunlop and entered the Miss Washington competition in 1959.\nHer parents also had another daughter, Christine, who died shortly after birth.\nActing career.\nReagan pursued a career in acting in her youth, appearing in films such as \"Kissin' Cousins\" (1964) in which she featured alongside Elvis Presley. She played Mrs. Moss on \"The Love Boat\" S2 E6 \"Ship of Ghouls\" opposite Vincent Price as The Amazing Alonzo. The episode aired on 10/27/1978.\nPolitical activities.\nIn the 1960s, Reagan would serve as the first President of the Walter Knott Republican Women's Club.\nReagan was the first son or daughter of a U.S. president to be elected co-chair of the Republican National Committee. However, both of her attempts at election to political office ended in defeat. She ran unsuccessfully for the United States Senate from California in 1982 (which was eventually won by Pete Wilson) and in 1992 for California's 36th congressional district.\nIn 1983, she given the title of Special Consultant to the Republican National Committee, serving as committee advisor on women's issues, and took up some residency at the family quarters of the White House. During the 1980s she also served as a member of California's World Trade Organization. In 1985, she would lead the United States delegation to the 1985 United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Nairobi, Kenya, and in early 1986 became the U.S. representative to the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. In January 1987, Reagan would be elected co-chairman of the Republican Party, and served in this role until 1989. Through this post, Reagan would help organize the 1988 Republican National Convention. In 1989, Reagan began serving as the chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.\nAlthough they maintained a united front, Maureen Reagan differed from her father on several key issues. Although reared Roman Catholic following her mother's conversion, she was pro-choice on abortion. She also held the belief that Oliver North should have been court-martialed.\nAfter her father announced his diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in 1994, Maureen Reagan became a member of the Alzheimer's Association board of directors and served as the group's spokeswoman. While hospitalized for melanoma cancer towards the end of her life, Maureen was only floors away from her father who had suffered a severe fall.\nPersonal life.\nIn 1960, Maureen's by-then divorced parents became concerned about her. Ronald Reagan used his connections at the FBI \u2212 established during his work as an anti-communist informant \u2212 to request the agency to investigate her romantic life. The agency did so on condition that the FBI not be cited as a source, and reported that she was living with an older, married man who was a police officer.\nMaureen Reagan was married three times:\nTogether with her adopted brother Michael, Maureen, unlike her more liberal half-siblings Patti and Ron, was the only of Ronald Reagan's children who was a Republican and who agreed more with her father's conservative political views. In 2004, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" described Maureen as the child who Reagan was \"closest -- politically and personally - - with.\" However, she would differ from her father when it came to support for women's rights issues such as the Equal Rights Amendment and abortion rights.\nDeath.\nIn 1996, she was diagnosed with melanoma skin cancer. Reagan died in Granite Bay, California, on August 8, 2001, aged 60, from melanoma. She is interred at Calvary Catholic Cemetery and Mausoleum in Sacramento, California.\nReagan volunteered with actor David Hyde Pierce, of TV's \"Frasier\", at the Alzheimer's Association. At her funeral on August 19, 2001, Pierce spoke to the mourners at the Cathedral of the Blessed Sacrament in Sacramento, and recalled his friend's attitude to her illness. \"When she was given lemons, she did not make lemonade. She took the lemons, threw them back and said, 'Oh, no you don't.'\""}
{"id": "714829", "revid": "69007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714829", "title": "Patsy T. Mink", "text": ""}
{"id": "714836", "revid": "1273126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714836", "title": "Manturovsky District", "text": "Manturovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "714838", "revid": "11183869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714838", "title": "Megola", "text": "The Megola was a German motorcycle produced between 1921 and 1925 in Munich. Like Bimota, the name is a portmanteau derived from the names of its designers Meixner, Gockerell, and Landgraf.\nDesign.\nThe Megola had a unique design, laid down in 1920 by Fritz Cockerell, whose real name was Friedrich Gockerell. He used a rotary engine mounted within the front wheel. It has a five-cylinder flathead engine. Each cylinder has a bore and stroke of and displaces , making the total displacement . The cylinders rotate around the front axle at six times the wheel speed; thus while the cylinders are at maximum of 3,600 rpm the front wheel turns at 600 rpm, or roughly (given the wheel diameter). A hand-controlled butterfly valve in the hollow crankshaft regulates the throttle. Power output was , applied directly to the wheel. This creates a very low centre of gravity and gives excellent handling.\nThe first prototype was the \"PAX\", built in 1918 with a three-cylinder engine within the rear wheel. This was followed in 1920 by a five-cylinder prototype, but still with the engine in the rear wheel. For the production model, the engine was relocated in the front wheel.\nUnusual features on the production models included two fuel tanks. The main tank is hidden inside the extensive bodywork, and the fuel from it is hand-pumped to a smaller tank above the engine. The rear wheel has two independent brakes. Megolas came well-equipped, with a fuel gauge, tachometer and ammeter as standard equipment. Two models were offered: sporting and touring. The touring model has a sprung rear wheel and soft saddle. The sport lacks rear suspension but has a more powerful engine. The top speed is . Motorcycle racer achieved on a sports-model on the AVUS racing circuit in Berlin. In 1924 he won the over-500cc-class on a Megola at the .\nThe engine was very flexible, lacking both a clutch and a transmission. To start the engine, the rider had to either spin the front wheel while the cycle was on its stand, or push-start the cycle. The cylinders could be disassembled without having to remove all the wheel spokes to reach them. The lack of a clutch meant the engine had to be stopped when the cycle was stationary. As an alternative, the owner's manual suggested the rider make small orbits in the road if at any point they had to halt.\nThe tires were tubed with the front inner-tube being a circular sausage-shape rather than a complete doughnut-like torus shape, so that it could be changed without removing the wheel and engine. At the time, this type of tube was produced commercially so it was likely not created specially for the Megola. The box-section frame contained the main fuel tank which fed by gravity a smaller tank mounted on the axle. The front suspension consisted of semi-elliptical springs.\nLegacy.\nDuring less than five years of production, about 2,000 machines were built and sold. About 15 survive. One was displayed at the Guggenheim Museum 'Art of the Motorcycle' exhibition in New York City. An example of a sport version of the Megola is part of the automotive collection of Jay Leno. About eight replica Megolas have been built between the 1980s and the present day. One replica, fitted with an original engine, was sold by Bonhams auction house in London in 2016 for \u00a382,140.\nKillinger and Freund.\nIn 1935 a group of engineers tried to make an improved version, the Killinger and Freund Motorcycle. World War II ended their plans."}
{"id": "714839", "revid": "14770366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714839", "title": "Ahoghill", "text": "Ahoghill ( or ; ) is a small town and civil parish in County Antrim, Northern Ireland, four miles from Ballymena. It is located in the Mid and East Antrim Borough Council area. It had a population of 3,521 people at the 2021 census.\nIn early documents, Ahoghill is referred to as \"Magherahoghill\" meaning \"the plain of the yew forest.\"\nDemography.\nAhoghill had a population of 3,521 people at the 2021 census, an increase of 3.7% on the 2011 census population of 3,403. At the 2021 census:\nHistory.\nReligious revival.\nThe 1859 Revival which swept through Ulster has strong connections with Ahoghill. Thousands of ordinary folk had their lives changed at this time. Especially notable is the reports of men and women weeping in the streets of Ahoghill. On Monday 14 March 1859 a thanksgiving service took place in the new First Ahoghill Presbyterian Meetinghouse at which some of the converts from Connor spoke. It was estimated that 3,000 people attended and the commotion was such that the minister ordered the building to be emptied out of fear of the crowded gallery giving way. The crowd spent upwards of three hours in the rain continuing in prayer and praise. The gallery of First Ahoghill still bears the effects of this event; it is visibly sunken to one side.\nToday Ahoghill has three Presbyterian churches, First Ahoghill on Straid Road, Brookside on Brook Street and Trinity on Church Street. There is also St Colmanell's Church of Ireland on Church Street, a Gospel Hall on Glenhugh Road and a Roman Catholic Chapel on Ballynafie road.\nThe Troubles.\nOn 19 April 1977 William Strathearn (39), a Catholic shop owner was shot and killed by the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) while at his home in Ahoghill. The murder was carried out by Billy McCaughey who was a UVF member despite also being a former police officer.\nThe village has seen frequent sectarian attacks, particularly in 2005 when several Catholic families left after attacks on their homes, and is considered a staunchly loyalist area.\nSport.\nAhoghill Thistle F.C. and Ahoghill Rovers F.C. are two local association football teams. The local Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) clubs include St. Mary's GAC and Clooney Gaels GAC."}
{"id": "714842", "revid": "41132577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714842", "title": "Relocation of professional sports teams", "text": "Relocation of professional sports teams occurs when a team owner moves a team, generally from one metropolitan area to another, but occasionally between municipalities in the same conurbation. The practice is most common in North America, where a league franchise system is used and the teams are overwhelmingly privately owned. Owners who move a team generally do so seeking better profits, facilities, fan support, or a combination of these.\nNorth America.\nUnlike most professional sport systems, North America lacks comprehensive governing bodies whose authority extends from the amateur to the highest levels of a given sport. North American sports generally do not operate a system of promotion and relegation in which poorly performing teams are replaced with teams that do well in lower-level leagues.\nA city wishing to get a team in a major professional sports league can wait for the league to expand and award new franchises. However, such expansions are infrequent, and generally limited to a narrow window in time. Many current owners believe 32 is the optimal size for a major league due to playoff structure and ease of scheduling. , each of the major leagues has 30 or 32 franchises. The National Hockey League (NHL) has expanded to 32 teams, with the Vegas Golden Knights having become the league's 31st team in 2017 and the Seattle Kraken becoming the 32nd team in 2021.\nIn past decades, aspiring owners whose overtures had been rejected by the established leagues would respond by forming a rival league in hopes that the existing major league would eventually agree to a merger; the new league would attain major league status in its own right; or the established league was compelled to expand. The 1960s American Football League (AFL) is perhaps the most recent example of a successful rival league, having achieved each of the three goals listed above in reverse order. However, all major sports have had a rival league achieve at least some of these goals in the last half of the 20th century. Baseball's proposed Continental League did not play a game, but only because Major League Baseball (MLB) responded to the proposal by adding teams in some of the new league's proposed cities. The American Basketball Association (ABA) and World Hockey Association (WHA) each succeeded in getting some of their franchises accepted into the established leagues, which had both unsuccessfully attempted to cause their upstart rivals to fold outright by adding more teams.\nHowever, the upstart leagues owed their success in large part to the reluctance of owners in the established leagues to devote the majority of their revenues to player salaries and also to sports leagues' former reliance primarily on gate receipts for revenue. Under those conditions, an ambitious rival could often afford to lure away the sport's top players with promises of better pay, in hopes of giving the new league immediate respect and credibility from fans. Today, however, established leagues derive a large portion of their revenue from lucrative television contracts that would not be offered to an untested rival. Also, the activism of players' unions has resulted in the established leagues paying a majority of their revenues to players, thus the average salary in each of the big four leagues is now well in excess of $1\u00a0million per season.\nUnder present market and financial conditions, any serious attempt to form a rival league in the early 21st century would likely require hundreds of millions (if not billions) of dollars in investment and initial losses, and even if such resources were made available the upstart league's success would be far from guaranteed, as evidenced by the failure of the WWF/NBC-backed XFL in 2001 and the UFL from 2009 to 2012. The current major leagues have established lucrative relationships with all of the major media outlets in the United States, who subsidize the league's operations because their established fame ensures strong ratings; the networks are far less willing to provide such coverage to an unproven upstart league, often requiring the upstart league to pay the network for those leagues to be covered.\nTherefore, as long as leagues choose not to expand or reject a city's application, the only realistic recourse is to convince the owner(s) of an existing team to move it (or convince a prospective owner to purchase a team with the intent of moving it). Owners usually move teams because of weak fan support or because the team organization is in debt and needs an adequate population for financial support or because another city offers a bigger local market or a more financially lucrative stadium/arena deal. Governments may offer lucrative deals to team owners to attract or retain a team. For example, to attract the NFL's Cleveland Browns in 1995, the state of Maryland agreed to build a new stadium in Baltimore and allow the team to use it rent-free and keep all parking, advertising and concession revenue. (This move proved so unpopular in Cleveland that the move was treated as the Baltimore Ravens being awarded an expansion franchise, and the Browns name and their official lineage would remain in Cleveland for a \"reactivated\" team that rejoined the NFL three years later.) A little more than a decade earlier, the Baltimore Colts left for Indianapolis (NFL owners voted to give Colts owner Robert Irsay permission to move his franchise to the city of his choosing after no satisfactory stadium would be built).\nMoving sports teams is often controversial. Opponents criticize owners for leaving behind faithful fans and governments for spending millions of dollars of tax money on attracting teams. However, since sports teams in the United States are generally treated like any other business under antitrust law, there is little sports leagues can do to prevent teams from flocking to the highest bidders (for instance, the Los Angeles Rams filed suit when the other NFL owners initially blocked their move to St. Louis, which caused the NFL to back down and allow the move to proceed). Major League Baseball, unique among the major professional sports leagues, has an exemption from antitrust laws won by a Supreme Court decision but nonetheless has allowed several teams to change cities. Also recently, courts denied the attempted move of the team then known as the Phoenix Coyotes by siding with the NHL, which claimed that it had final authority over franchise moves.\nNewer sports leagues tend to have more transient franchises than more established, \"major\" leagues, but in the mid-1990s, several NFL and NHL teams moved to other cities, and the threat of a move pushed cities with major-league teams in any sport to build new stadiums and arenas using taxpayer money. The trend continued in the 2000s, when three National Basketball Association (NBA) teams moved in a seven-year span after there were no moves at all in the 16 prior years. Critics referred to the movement of teams to the highest-bidding city as \"franchise free agency.\"\nAustralia and New Zealand.\nThe two major professional sporting leagues in Australia are the Australian Football League (AFL) and National Rugby League (NRL). \nBoth competitions were originally based in one city (Melbourne and Sydney respectively) and expanded to a national level, and through that process, there have been team moves, mergers and closures in both leagues. The clubs are owned by members, not privately, but the North American franchise model exists, which means entry to the league is restricted. The hybrid model has meant that the leading promoter of moving is the league itself, trying to grow the football code by encouraging poorly performing clubs to move interstate.\nThe most significant moves in Australian history were the interstate moves of the South Melbourne Football Club to Sydney (in 1982:) and the Fitzroy Football Club's move of its playing operations to Brisbane (in 1996: ), both that crossing the cultural divide known as the Barassi Line.\nEurope.\nIn Europe, moves are very rare because of the different relationship between clubs and their league in the European system of professional sports league organization. The practice is considered anathema. In most European sports, teams can be relegated from their current league to a lower one or promoted to the one above.\nLatin America and the Caribbean.\nTeam moves in Latin America occur very rarely for the established teams with established bases. Smaller teams, either small team from large agglomerations or provincial teams with little or no fan base frequently move in search of a larger market and/or more affordable facilities, as frequently, there are only large complexes available with a necessity to groundshare with a larger club. The practice is considered anathema.\nBrazil.\nThe first move of a first division football team was in 2010. Gr\u00eamio Barueri moved to Presidente Prudente, becoming Gr\u00eamio Prudente, only to return as Gr\u00eamio Barueri in the middle of 2011.\nEsporte Clube Dom Pedro II, named after Pedro II of Brazil was founded on February 22, 1996, in Guar\u00e1. The club moved to N\u00facleo Bandeirante in 2009, and it was renamed to Esporte Clube Dom Pedro Bandeirante. On November 1, 2016, after achieving promotion back to the first division of the Campeonato Brasiliense, the club changed its name to Real Futebol Clube and moved to Bras\u00edlia. Ahead of the 2020 campaign, the club again changed name to Real Bras\u00edlia Futebol Clube.\nGuaratinguet\u00e1 Futebol on October 15, 2010 announced its move from Guaratinguet\u00e1 to Americana, and their change of name to Americana Futebol. On November 28, 2011, after more than a year in Americana, the club's administrator, Sony Sports, announced the team's return to Guaratinguet\u00e1 to compete in the 2012 Campeonato Paulista and other competitions, as Americana city and its main stadium, Est\u00e1dio D\u00e9cio Vitta was not able to support the club and the city's club, Rio Branco, and also because most of the supports of the club live in Guaratinguet\u00e1.\nIn other sports, such as volleyball, basketball or futsal, moving is more common, although it does not occur frequently.\nColombia.\nIn Colombia historic teams from first division are rarely moved, but newer teams created in second division are often moved from city to city looking for a responding fan base.\nJamaica.\nHazard United, founded in 1985 in May Pen, moved in 2001 to Clarendon and renamed itself Clarendon United. JFF regulations stipulated that each club have stands to seat at least 1,500, which Clarendon lacked. So the team moved again, to St. Catherine and began to use the Ferdi Neita Sports Complex. Initially, Clarendon and the St. Catherine football club agreed to share the stadium. In 2002, St. Catherine suggested Clarendon change its affiliation to become a St. Catherine team, as the club's name was not locally identifiable and the club itself was only slowly gaining followers. Instead, Clarendon moved in 2003 to Portmore and renamed itself Portmore United. The club has since won four Premier League titles.\nMexico.\nLiga MX has a relegation system but its teams have some territorial rights recognized, perhaps due to U.S. influence as many league matches are aired in the U.S., where only traditional top-flight teams are perceived to most effectively reach the immigrant fan-base. \nPeru.\nIn Peru several teams have had to use already built large stadiums, including ones in the interior of the country, to be able to participate in Peruvian Primera Divisi\u00f3n; this includes several teams from the capital, Lima, who have not been able to establish fanbases in their districts due to the required moves.\nAsia.\nTeam moves in Asia are done according to the type of sport played and/or the predominant style of league organization, as well as individual economic circumstances. For instance, in Japan there is a difference between Nippon Professional Baseball which is run like MLB, and the J.League which is run like European football leagues.\nClub moves are also common when an amateur or semiprofessional club tries to acquire its own facilities to become a professional club, and no money and/or space is available to build their own in a long-established location.\nChina.\nTeam moves in China are very common. Although China has a European-style promotion and relegation league system, the teams themselves are North American-style franchises, which means the teams are overwhelmingly privately owned and therefore more prone to moving. Owners who move a team generally do so seeking better profits, facilities, fan support, or a combination of these. There are neither rules regarding moves nor many established fan bases, outside a handful of top teams.\nIndonesia.\nThe club currently known as Madura United F.C. has several home bases (and names) throughout the years, first formed in 1986 as Pelita Jaya with home base in Jakarta. It then moved to Solo in 2000, Cilegon in 2002, Purwakarta in 2006, Bandung in 2008, and Karawang in 2009, before moving back to Bandung in 2012. Throughout those years, the team retained the \"Pelita\" name until it was rebranded as Persipasi Bandung Raya for the ultimately abandoned 2015 Indonesia Super League, although the club's home base was actually in Bekasi at the time. The current iteration of the club began in 2016, ahead of the temporary Indonesia Soccer Championship.\nJapan.\nAssociation football.\nThe J.League is run similarly to European football leagues. In contrast to the baseball league it has allowed only a few teams to move out of crowded or unprofitable markets:\nBaseball.\nNippon Professional Baseball is run in similar fashion to MLB and has moved several franchises out of crowded markets. Moves also happened when the teams changed ownership (which also sometimes involved changing the team name).\nSouth Korea.\nAssociation football.\nFootball club moves were frequent in the 1980s and 1990s. South Korea has three national tiers, but as in the North American system, there was initially no promotion or relegation between them.\nThere were three professional football clubs Ilhwa Chunma (currently Seongnam FC), LG Cheetahs (currently FC Seoul), Yukong Elephants (currently Jeju United) in Seoul by 1995. However, due to K League's decentralization policy, these three clubs were forced to move to other cities in 1996, changing their name in the process. These moves are done under the accord that if any of these teams build a football specific stadium in Seoul, they can return there, of which two clubs took advantage of. As a result, the following moves occurred:\nOther sports.\nIn South Korean major professional sports such as Korea Professional Baseball, Korean Basketball League, V-League, moves were common.\nIn ice hockey, Mando Winia were a team based in Mok-dong, Seoul, which moved to Anyang, Gyeonggi in 2005 and became Anyang Halla.\nAfrica.\nSouth Africa.\nIn South Africa most football clubs are privately owned, and club moves are relatively common. Several clubs, including top division Premier Soccer League clubs have moved and taken on new identities. There are many other cases of South African moves. The ease of selling and buying of club licences make moves common and sometimes difficult to determine what determines whether a new club represents an existing one that has moved or an entirely separate new entity."}
{"id": "714843", "revid": "44428017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714843", "title": "Historical federal electoral districts of Canada", "text": "This is a list of past arrangements of Canada's electoral districts. Each district sends one member to the House of Commons of Canada.\nThis article contains a list of all the lists of the federal electoral districts that were in used at various time since confederation, and a summary table of provincial seat allocations over the history of Canada. \nThe allocations and adjustments of electoral districts in Canada are based on the principle of representation by population. Federal electoral districts are re-adjusted every ten years based on the decennialcensus and proscribed by various constitutional seat guarantees for provinces with declining share of the national population. Information on the process and the various rules are consolidated in Electoral district (Canada)."}
{"id": "714845", "revid": "49002355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714845", "title": "Aswang", "text": "Aswang is an umbrella term for various shape-shifting evil and malevolent creatures in Filipino folklore, such as vampires, ghouls, witches, viscera suckers, and transforming human-beast hybrids (usually dogs, cats, pigs). The aswang is the subject of a wide variety of myths, stories, arts, and films, as it is well known throughout the Philippines. Spanish colonists noted that the aswang was the most feared among the mythical creatures of the Philippines, even in the 16th century. Although with no specific motive other than harming others, their behavior can be interpreted as an inversion of the traditional Filipino's values. The aswang is especially popular in southern parts of Luzon, and some parts of Mindanao and Visayas, especially the Visayan province of Capiz.\nHistorical accounts.\n\"The sixth was called \"silagan\", whose office it was, if they saw anyone clothed in white, to tear out his liver and eat it, thus causing his death. This, like the preceding, was in the island of Catanduanes. Let no one, moreover, consider this a fable; because, in Calavan, they tore out in this way through the anus all the intestines of a Spanish notary, who was buried in Calilaya by father Fray Juan de M\u00e9rida.\nThe seventh was called \"manananggal\", and his purpose was to show himself at night to many persons, without his head or entrails. In such wise the devil walked about and carried, or pretended to carry, his head to different places; and, in the morning, returned it to his body remaining, as before, alive. This seems to be a fable, although the natives affirm that they have seen it, because the devil probably caused them so to believe. This occurred in Catanduanes.\nThe eighth they called \"osuang\", which is equivalent to 'sorcerer;' they say that they have seen him fly, and that he murdered men and ate their flesh. This was among the Visayas Islands; among the Tagalos these did not exist.\"\nFr. Juan de Plasencia, Customs of the Tagalogs (1589)\nAsuang. It is the name of an elf, sorcerer or demon, known in almost the entire archipelago, particularly among the Tagalogs, Pampangos, Bicoles, Visayas and Mandayas. It is a nocturnal demon that takes the forms that it wants, like those of a dog, cat, bird or other animal. The Asuang preferably picks up abandoned children and lonely walkers. With his tongue, horribly dilated, black and flexible as silk, he removes fetuses from women who are on tape. The birth pains are attributed to him. Many very different and even contrary fables refer to the Asuang, because the civilized nations of the Archipelago confuse under the name of Asuang the memories of various demons other than their ancient and primitive religion; so that today Asuang is usually, for both Spaniards and Indians, the generic denomination of a series of goblins, or equivalent to the meaning of the Spanish voice sorcerer or goblin. It seems that in Tagalog it was Osuang or Usuang, the oldest name that that Malaysian demon also carries in the Dutch countries of Indonesia. The bird Tiktik, night bird, announces with its song the proximity of the Asuang.\nFerdinand Blumentritt 1895\nDescription and taxonomy.\nAccording to Maximo Ramos, the term \"aswang\" can be thought of as an aggregate term for a multitude of Filipino supernatural creatures. These creatures can be organized into five categories that parallel creatures from Western traditions. These categories are the vampire, the self-segmenting viscera sucker, the weredog, the witch, and the ghoul.\nThe vampire.\nThe vampire aswang disguises itself as a beautiful woman. It shares a diet of blood with vampires from Western cultures; however, it differs in that it sucks blood using a proboscis-like tongue rather than sharpened teeth. Furthermore, aswang do not reside in tombs. Some live in forests far from human communities, but the aswang can infiltrate human society by marrying into a community, either slowly draining their husband of blood or using him strictly as a hideout and leaving at night to raid other villages, thereby maintaining their cover. One example of a vampire aswang is the Tagalog \"mandurugo\", said to live in the region of Capiz.\nThe viscera sucker.\nThe viscera sucker, also known as \"manananggal\", is said to have a diet of internal organs, or the phlegmatic discharge of the sick. Like the vampire aswang, it consumes its food with its tongue, narrow and tubular, but not pointed like the vampire. By day, it takes the shape of an attractive, light-skinned, and long-haired woman. By night, it grows wings and segments itself, leaving behind its body from the waist downwards. It takes great care to hide its lower half, then flies in searches for victims. It is particularly attracted to the fetuses growing inside pregnant women. Viscera suckers are said to live in domiciles deep in the jungle, if not the trees themselves. But like the vampire aswang, most infiltrate human communities via marriage.\nThe weredog.\nMaximo Ramos refers to this category as the weredog, though the creature does not necessarily transform into a dog. Ramos reasons that the werecreature of a given region is named after their most ferocious creature. As such, for example, Europe has werewolves, India has weretigers, and Africa has wereleopards. The Philippines has no indigenous wolf population, thus making weredog the more appropriate term. Like the previous aswang, the weredog infiltrates villages and turns into a creature by night, around midnight. The creature is most commonly a dog, but a cat or pig is also possible. The weredog then kills and eats people, particularly pregnant women on the road in the night, and do not let their long hair hang loose. (Doing so is said to protect against these aswang.) The weredog is said to develop a taste for human flesh by eating food spat on, or licked, by another weredog. (The same is said of the viscera sucker.) Unlike the previous aswang, the weredog does not infiltrate human communities through marriage, but as a traveler of some sort, such as a peddler or a construction labourer.\nThe witch.\nWitch aswangs are characterized by extreme vindictiveness; they curse those who have crossed them by causing objects such as rice, bones, or insects to emerge from their victims' bodily orifices. They possess eyes that reflect images upside down and have elongated irises, and they dwell on the outskirts of towns and villages. In the Philippines, these witches are feared, shunned, and hated. A woman can become an aswang only if she already possesses certain traits associated with aswangs. Upon transformation, her powers intensify, making her even more formidable than other witches. If an aswang is captured, she is executed immediately without question. Ordinary witches, by contrast, are simply avoided and regarded with fear; however, if an incident occurs near a witch's residence, the community may seek her out to blame and punish.\nThe ghoul.\nGhoul aswang are described as humanoid but generally hidden. Their diet consists of human corpses, they are carrion-eaters. Their nails and teeth are sharp and strong to help with the theft and consumption of the corpses. Their diet makes them smell rank and pungent. They gather in trees near cemeteries to exhume and consume the fresh burials.\nBehaviour.\nAswang commonly dwell at night in locations such as cemeteries and woods, as their powers are significantly, or sometimes totally, reduced during the daytime. However, despite being described as wild monsters that often live in the wilderness and outskirts of society, aswang are also described as creatures that are capable of living within close proximity of or even within the confines of a village, leading to several reports of aswang attacks within large, populated towns and cities. Their ability to adapt and live within the urban and rural environments populated by humans while still maintaining their feral, monstrous nature is cited as a feature that distinguishes aswang from most other monsters. Aswang also generally have a fear of light. Wakes were often brightly lit to ensure that aswang would not come to the funeral to steal and devour the corpse. They also have a disdain for noise, but rare occasions describe aswang attending noisy parties.\nAswang are traditionally described as one-dimensional monsters and inherently evil by nature with no explicable motives beyond harming and devouring other creatures. Their overtly evil behaviour may be described as an inversion of traditional Filipino values. Traditional aswang have no bias when selecting their prey and will not hesitate to target their own kin: an inversion of the traditional Filipino value of strong kinship and family closeness. Aswang are described to be unclean and favor raw human meat to the food found in traditional Filipino culture. The aswang are also often described to be lewd in behaviour, with female aswang often exposing their genitals to contrast values of traditional modesty.\nCountermeasures.\nThere are several remedies and countermeasures to drive away or slay aswang. The different countermeasures often vary depending on the cultural and symbolic significance of each tool. Holy objects, spices, salt, ash, the tail of a sting-ray, large crustaceans, vinegar, betel nut chew, and urine are all listed as tools for protection against aswang. The reversal of a ladder leading to the house was also said to be a countermeasure against aswang.\nBecause aswang were believed to be the cause of miscarriages, countermeasures to drive aswang away and prevent them from prowling during childbirth were developed. One method is for the husband of the child-bearing wife to remain under the house naked while furiously waving a sword. Sharp sticks or bolos should be inserted between the bamboos of the house floor to prevent aswang from lurking under the house. Additionally, sick people should not stay in houses with holes and are told not to groan in order not to attract aswang.\nThere is also a special anti-aswang oil that can be developed. To make this oil, select a particular coconut and watch it grow. Pick it at twilight during a full moon when it is wet and gloomy; the breeze should also be chilly. The coconut should be grated and its juice must be squeezed out. Boil the mixture until it becomes oil. Recite secret prayers and throw all the waste into the ocean so that aswang cannot trace whoever made the oil. Once complete, the oil should be hung at the door of the house; it will boil when an aswang is near.\nThere are other methods of detecting aswang without the use of the special oil. Scratching noises heard from the ceiling of a house is often a sign of a nearby aswang. Aswang in disguise can be detected by seeing if your reflection in the creature's eye is inverted. Additionally, dogs, cats, and pigs with no tails are said to be aswang in disguise. During holy masses, aswang will also attempt to dodge the blessings.\nTo kill a witch aswang, a bolo knife can be used to strike the middle of the witch's back; if that area is not struck, the witch can lick its wounds to heal its injuries. After slaying an aswang with a bolo, the bolo must be planted under the ground. Firearms are not advised for killing aswang and it is useless to stab and slash at an aswang while it is in the form of an animal. Magic prayers can be used to make the aswang vulnerable; while it is in this helpless state, its body must be cut into pieces. If the aswang is cut into two pieces, each piece must be separated and taken to opposite river banks.\nOrigins and influences.\nBecause of the archipelagic geography of the Philippines, and the primarily oral mode of inheriting and imparting narratives from the past for preservation or didactic purposes, stories about the aswang have evolved and adapted according to the locality in question.\nThe aswang was born out of Philippine folklore, with stories of this terrifying creature dating back to at least the 16th century, when Spanish colonizers created the first written record of the monster. The Spanish noted that of all the monsters in their folklore, the aswang was the most feared by native people. \nOne of the most famous origins of the term aswang came from the aswang tradition in the Bicol region during the sixteenth century. The Bicolanos believed in the God named Gugurang, who was the good God that acted as the beneficent of their region, the defender and guardian of their homes, and their protector against the evil of the God Asuang. The God Asuang, however, was the evil God and rival, who attempted to always cause harm to Gugurang and found pleasure in doing so. Gugurang was always praised by the Bicolanos, and Asuang shunned and cursed.\nHowever, in another story, Gugurang is portrayed as a fire-wielding God who, if displeased with the humans, would cause Mt. Mayon to erupt. The aswang had no control over the people and became jealous of Gugurang's power. As the aswang begged for Gugurang's fire, Gugurang felt that the aswang was only trying to have fire to win the favor of the people, and the two began to argue for centuries. But the aswang was able to steal fire by turning himself invisible and hiding the fire in a coconut shell. However, the aswang was unable to control the power and caused the entire world to catch flames. Gugurang followed the flames which led him to the aswang and took the fire back. He called the Gods to help him put out the fire with rain and take revenge on the aswang by making thunder and lightning to strike the mountains. The act brought upon all the evils and destruction in the land, which the people had never forgotten the aswang for.\nHome of the aswang.\nAswang are most commonly associated with the province of Capiz, which lies on the island of Panay at the Western Visayas region, so much so that Capiz has come to be dubbed as the creature's \"hometown\". In an April 29, 2019, documentary of \"Kapuso Mo, Jessica Soho\" (KMJS), aswang are also allegedly sighted in Himamaylan, Negros Occidental, which also lies at Western Visayas, where several residents have been reportedly terrorized by the appearance of the aswang at night. The KMJS team tried to substantiate the resident's claim by installing cameras to capture the alleged creature, but to no avail.\nFrom the lens of social anthropology, what inspired the legends of the aswang can be traced back to two possible sources: the behaviour of the wildlife within the region, and the prominence of X-linked dystonia parkinsonism within the region.\nWildlife behaviour.\nSounds attributed to the aswang's hunting calls (\"tiktik\" and \"wakwak\") are similar to the sounds of nocturnal forest wildlife such as bats and Philippine flying lemurs (which is locally called \"kagwang\"). The sounds they make have resulted in them being hunted, under the suspicions that these creatures are aswang in disguise.\nProminence of X-linked dystonia parkinsonism.\nX-linked dystonia parkinsonism (XDP) is a genetic form of dystonia found almost entirely among males of Filipino descent (XDP Canada). It is also known as the Dystonia of Panay, due to the fact that most current cases today can be traced back to a common ancestor in Panay. According to most recent studies, 93% of current cases today are located on Panay Island, with 63% of those being located in Capiz.\nIndividuals diagnosed with this disease exhibit debilitating symptoms that put them in a \"transforming state\", which results in their \"bod[ies] twisting, tongue[s] protruding from their mouth[s], [and] salivating.\" With the disorder being endemic to the region for generations, the visible symptoms have been interpreted as a major contribution to the prevalence of narratives surrounding Capiz as the home of the aswang. Individuals afflicted with this disease are branded as aswang and are socially ostracized, which prevent their families from seeking effective medical treatment and forcing them to isolate themselves from the larger community.\nInfluences in contemporary society.\nThe folklore of the aswang has been interpreted as having influenced certain idiosyncrasies of the Filipino people. Maximo Ramos, focusing on the ghoul-aspect and viscera-sucker aspect of the aswang, proposes that certain behaviours of modern-day Filipinos can be traced back to older traditions and customs that were geared towards protecting themselves from the aswang. Some of the contemporary behaviours he mentions include:\nPortrayals in media.\nIn film.\nThe aswang have been the focus of Philippine horror and thriller films:\nThe aswang are also featured in the following Western films:"}
{"id": "714848", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714848", "title": "Gustav VI of Sweden", "text": ""}
{"id": "714854", "revid": "38567265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714854", "title": "Department of Jun\u00edn", "text": "Jun\u00edn (; ) is a department of Peru. It is located in the central highlands and westernmost Peruvian Amazon. It is governed by a regional government. Its capital is Huancayo.\nGeography.\nThe region has a very heterogeneous topography. The western range located near the border with the Lima Region, has snowy and ice-covered peaks. On the east, there are high glacier valleys which end up in high plateaus (\"Altiplano\"). Among them is the Jun\u00edn Plateau that is located between the cities of La Oroya and Cerro de Pasco.\nThe Mantaro Valley becomes wider before Jauja up to the limit with the Huancavelica Region. This area concentrates a large share of the region's population. Towards the east, near the jungle, there is an abundance of narrow and deep canyons, with highly inclined hillsides, covered by woods under low-lying clouds.\nThe Waytapallana mountain range is located in the south central area of the region. This range holds a great fault which is the reason earthquakes happen in the area. The upper jungle, with valleys of great length, modelled by the Tulumayu, Pawqartampu, Peren\u00e9 and Ene rivers, is located on the eastern side of the region.\nLake Junin, the largest lake entirely within Peru, is located in the region, except for its northernmost tip which belongs to the Pasco Region. Jun\u00edn Region is also home to Mount Toromocho.\nIt is rich in minerals, including silver, copper, mercury, bismuth, molybdenum, lead and coal.\nBoundaries.\nThe Jun\u00edn Region borders the regions of Pasco in the north, Ucayali in the northeast and Cusco in the east. The Mantaro River marks the border of the region with the Ayacucho and Huancavelica regions in the south and in the west it is bordered by the Lima Region.\nClimate.\nThe Jun\u00edn Region has an average annual temperature of 13.1\u00a0\u00b0C (56\u00a0\u00b0F), a maximum high of 17\u00a0\u00b0C (62\u00a0\u00b0F) and a minimum low of 0\u00a0\u00b0C (32\u00a0\u00b0F).\nThe rainy season runs from November to April, and from December to March in tropical areas.\nPolitical division.\nThe region is divided into nine provinces (, singular: ), which are composed of 123 districts (\"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\"). The provinces and their capitals are:\nDemographics.\nLanguages.\nAccording to the 2007 Peru Census, the language learnt first by most of the residents was Spanish (86.63%) followed by Quechua (9.29%). The Quechua varieties spoken in Jun\u00edn are Huanca Quechua (in the Southwest), Yaru Quechua (in the Northwest, especially in Tarma Province). The following table shows the results concerning the language learnt first in the Jun\u00edn Region by province:\nHistory.\nUntil the arrival of the Incas the eastern plains of the Jun\u00edn region, known in Quechua as \"Pampas,\" were inhabited by the Yanesha' and the Ash\u00e1ninka people, who lived a hunter-gatherer lifestyle and tended to be hostile towards outsiders. Meanwhile, the southwestern Mantaro Valley was inhabited by the Huancas. Sapa Inca Pachacuti conquered this region in 1460, bringing it under the domain of the Inca Empire. Huancayo became the region's main highway rest stop on the Inca Trail.\nWoolen mills (known in Spanish as \"obrajes\" or \"mills\") were created during the viceroyalty, where the tissue and its craft became a tradition that continues today. On September 13, 1825, Sim\u00f3n Bol\u00edvar issued a decree creating what is now the Jun\u00edn Region, to commemorate his victory in the Battle of Jun\u00edn, the last real cavalry charge in South America where no shot was fired. Major events of national importance occurred during this period: Huancayo hosted the Assembly that issued the 1839 Constitution and on December 3, 1854, Ram\u00f3n Castilla signed a decree that granted freedom to Afro-Peruvian slaves."}
{"id": "714862", "revid": "6488475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714862", "title": "Poecilia", "text": "Poecilia is a genus of fishes in the family Poeciliidae of the order Cyprinodontiformes. These livebearers are native to fresh, brackish and salt water in the Americas, and some species in the genus are euryhaline. A few have adapted to living in waters that contain high levels of toxic hydrogen sulfide () and a population of \"P. mexicana\" lives in caves (other populations of this species are surface-living).\nSome common and widespread species are often kept as aquarium fish, while other have very small ranges and are seriously threatened. Species in \"Poecilia\" are called \"mollies\" (e. g. \"P. sphenops\") or \"guppies\" (e. g. \"P. reticulata\") depending on body shape.\n\"Micropoecilia\" has been proposed to be included as a subgenus of \"Poecilia\".\nTaxonomy and etymology.\n\"Poecilia\" was first proposed as a genus in 1801 by the German naturalists Marcus Elieser Bloch and Johann Gottlob Theaenus Schneider when the described \"Poecilia vivipara\" as a new species. \"P. vivipara\" was subsequently designated as the type species of the genus by Pieter Bleeker in 1864. It is the type genus of the subfamily Poeciliinae and of the family Poeciliidae. \"Poecilia\" refers to the Greek word \"poikilos\", which means \"variegated\" or \"speckled\", an allusion to the coloration and pattern of the type species, as well as that of and other related fishes, such as \"Fundulus heteroclitus\" which Bloch &amp; Schneider classified in this genus.\nIn aquaria.\nFish of this genus have extremely variable coloration and have been selectively bred to create many different varieties. The most commonly kept species are guppies (\"P. reticulata)\", mollies (\"P. sphenops\" or \"P. latipinna\"), and Endler's livebearers (\"P. wingei\"). Members of the genus readily hybridize with each other and so most commercially offered fish are hybrids (with guppies having some Endler, and mollies being a mix of common and sailfin mollies).\nThey are easy to sex as males have a prominent gonopodium, a modified anal fin used to inseminate females. They mature quickly and breed readily, with females giving birth to a dozen or more fry every month. Some poecilids are cannibalistic and will eat any of their fry that are unable to flee in time (with females often eating the fry they just gave birth to, especially in a cramped aquarium setting).\nSpecies.\nThe following species are recognized in the genus \"Poecilia\":\nIf \"Poecilia\" in the wider sense is used then the species would be divided up into subgenera as follows:"}
{"id": "714863", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714863", "title": "Angosian", "text": ""}
{"id": "714871", "revid": "49726413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714871", "title": "Shooting guard", "text": "The shooting guard (SG), also known as the two, two guard or off guard, is one of the five traditional positions in a regulation basketball game.\nA shooting guard's main objective is to score points and steal the ball on defense. Shooting guards typically play the \"wing\" of the court and are generally expected to play better in isolation than other positions. Some shooting guards are tasked with being a \"spot up\" shooter assigned to catch and shoot the ball, either on an open shot or in transition. They are also expected to have skills driving to the basket or creating separation on an isolation defender.\nSome teams ask shooting guards to inbound the ball and bring it up the court; these players are known colloquially as combo guards. A player who can switch between playing shooting guard and small forward is known as a swingman. In the NBA, shooting guards usually range from to while in the WNBA, shooting guards tend to be between and .\nCharacteristics and styles of play.\n\"The Basketball Handbook\" by Lee Rose describes a shooting guard as a player whose primary role is to score points. As the name suggests, most shooting guards are good long-range shooters, typically averaging 35\u201340 percent from three-point range. Many shooting guards are also strong and athletic, and have the ability to get inside the paint and drive to the basket.\nTypically, shooting guards are taller than point guards. Height at the position varies; many bigger shooting guards also play small forward. Shooting guards should be good ball handlers and be able to pass reasonably well, though passing is not their main priority. Since good shooting guards may attract double-teams, they are frequently the team's back-up ball handlers to the point guard and typically get a fair number of assists.\nShooting guards must be able to score in various ways, especially late in a close game when defenses are tighter. They must have a high free throw percentage too, to be reliable in close games and discourage opposing players from fouling them. Because of the high level of offensive skills shooting guards need, they are often a team's primary scoring option, and sometimes the offense is built around them.\nIn the NBA, there are some shooting guards referred to as \"3 and D\" players. The term 3 and D implies that the player is a good 3 point shooter who can also play effective defense. The 3 and D player has become very important as the game sways to be perimeter oriented.\nGood shooting guards can often play point guard to a certain extent. It is usually accepted that point guards should have the ball in their hands at most times in the game, but sometimes the shooting guard has a significant enough influence on the team to handle the ball extremely often, to the point that the point guard may be reduced to a backup ball handler or a spot-up shooter, a player who \"spots-up\" for catch-and-shoot shots to provide spacing for the offense. Notable shooting guards include Michael Jordan, Kobe Bryant, Dwyane Wade, Manu Ginobili, James Harden, Klay Thompson, Tracy McGrady, Joe Dumars, Clyde Drexler, Jerry West, Sam Jones, Donovan Mitchell, Allen Iverson, and Anthony Edwards in the NBA and Diana Taurasi, Jewell Loyd, Seimone Augustus, Cynthia Cooper, and Cappie Pondexter in the WNBA.\nSkills and qualities.\nIt is important for a shooting guard to develop skills in defense, passing and strength in addition to shooting ability. This position displays the most movement offensively when trying to get an open shot, along with keeping things under control on the defensive end.\nUnderstanding that this position is shaped around the shooting ability of the athlete, many external abilities implemented into the player will overall help construct the potential the athlete possesses. External abilities would consist of strong ball handling, a sharp mind, and the development of a high basketball intelligence.\nShooting guards are often used as the secondary ball handler to help eliminate pressure of the 1 guard."}
{"id": "714873", "revid": "51182849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714873", "title": "To the Struggle Against World Terrorism", "text": "To the Struggle Against World Terrorism (also known as the Tear of Grief and the Tear Drop Memorial) is a 10\u2013story sculpture by Zurab Tsereteli that was given to the United States as an official gift from the Russian government as a memorial to the victims of the September 11 attacks in 2001, and the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. It stands at the end of the former Military Ocean Terminal in Bayonne, New Jersey. Ceremonial groundbreaking occurred on September 16, 2005, in a ceremony attended by Russian president Vladimir Putin. The monument was dedicated on September 11, 2006, in a ceremony attended by former U.S. president Bill Clinton, coinciding with the 5th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks.\nDesign.\nThe sculpture comprises a bronze-clad tower split with a jagged opening in the middle, in which hangs a -tall nickel-surfaced teardrop. The eleven sides of the monument's base bear granite name plates, on which are etched the names of those who died in the September 11 attacks and the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. However, like some other 9/11 memorials, the dedication was based on an outdated compilation and contains about forty people who were removed from later victim listings.\nTsereteli did not disclose the cost of the sculpture except to say that he paid for labor and materials. A lawyer for the sculptor released the cost at about $12 million. Tsereteli said metals for the sculpture were obtained \"From a military factory that did airplanes. In Dzerzhinsk. A secret city.\"\nFurther information.\nThe monument was initially given to the local government of Jersey City, but was rejected. It was then relocated to its present placement in Bayonne. In August 2010 the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey announced it had plans to build a container facility on the location and the monument would most likely have to be moved. However, Robert \"Captain Bob\" Terzi, a Bayonne taxi driver started an online petition to prevent the relocation. \nIt was listed as one of the world's ugliest statues by \"Foreign Policy\" magazine, while \"The New Yorker\" said that it looked like \"a giant tea biscuit\" from a distance. Pro Arts Jersey City called it \"an insensitive, self-aggrandizing piece of pompousness by one of the world's blatant self-promoters\".\nIn September 2011, a section of steel from the World Trade Center was placed adjacent to the sculpture.\nIn response to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the city of Bayonne had Vladimir Putin's name covered on the two plaques in the park."}
{"id": "714878", "revid": "51877850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714878", "title": "Department of La Libertad", "text": "La Libertad () is a department of Peru. Located on the country's northwestern coast, it is the ninth smallest department in Peru, but is also its second-most populous after Piura, and the second-most densely populated after Lambayeque. Its capital is the coastal city of Trujillo, the nation's third biggest city.\nLa Libertad is the site of many of Pre-Columbian Peru's significant cultures, such as the Moche, the Wari, the Chim\u00fa and, ultimately, the Inca Empire. It was ultimately conquered by the Spanish Empire during the 16th century and, after a series of administrative changes, ultimately incorporated as the Intendancy of Trujillo in 1784. It played a significant role in the Peruvian War of Independence, after which it was created as one of the foundational provinces of the Protectorate of Peru. In 1825, it was given its current name.\nIts territory was that of the intendancy, which originally included most of Peru's territory north and east of Lima, including that of the former General Command of Maynas. Due to its large size, its territory gradually shrank from 1832 to 1874, with the creation of the departments of Piura (1837), Amazonas (1832), Cajamarca (1855) and Lambayeque (1874), after which it virtually acquired its current borders.\nIt is the site of two important heritage sites designated as World Heritage Sites by UNESCO: Rio Abiseo National Park (designated in 1983) and Chan Chan (designated in 1986). Salaverry, its main port, is one of Peru's largest ports.\nEtymology.\nThe department's name honours its contribution to the Peruvian War of Independence. Prior to 1825, it was known as the Department of Trujillo.\nHistory.\nAs with most of the country's coastal and central region, the area was once the home to a number of Pre-Columbian peoples, notably the Chav\u00edn, Moche, Sican, and Wari peoples. The latter established an empire whose area would eventually be absorbed into the Inca Empire, the last pre-Columbian entity to exist prior to the arrival of the Spanish Empire.\nSpanish period.\nFollowing the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire, the area as a whole was incorporated into the Intendancy of Trujillo, a subdivision of the Viceroyalty of Peru. At the time, the area under its jurisdiction included present-day Lambayeque, Piura and Tumbes, as well as Guayaquil and El Oro in Ecuador.\nRepublican period.\nDuring the Peruvian War of Independence, the intendancy was instrumental in assisting Jos\u00e9 de San Mart\u00edn's military campaign against Spain. Following his landing at Paracas Bay in September 1820, intendant Jos\u00e9 Bernardo de Tagle y Portocarrero and the city mayor led an rebellion that culminated with the declaration of the Independence of Trujillo on December 29 of the same year.\nOn February 12, 1821, San Mart\u00edn issued a Provisional Regulation, providing for the creation of the Department of Trujillo, among others. San Mart\u00edn's regulations divided the department into seven provinces:\nThe Governorate of Bracamoros supported Trujillo's independence and declared its own from the Real Audiencia of Quito on June 4, 1821. It was later incorporated into the department.\nThe department existed under its original name until March 9, 1825, when a law by Sim\u00f3n Bol\u00edvar changed it to its current name to honour its contribution to the independence of Peru. This law also renamed its capital city to Ciudad Bol\u00edvar. While the city's name change was undone through another law on July 21, 1827, the department's name was not changed, and has since remained.\nGeography.\nLa Libertad is the only Peruvian region that includes all three natural regions of the nation: coast, Sierra (highlands), and \"selva\" (rainforest).\nTrujillo, the capital, has a strategic location, near where the Andes come closest to the coast. Seen from Trujillo, the Andes appears as a row of low-elevation hills. The Andean Plateau increases altitude sharply to the east, in the provinces of Otuzco and Santiago de Chuco. These two provinces comprise the Pacific hydrographic watershed, which give rise to the Moche and Vir\u00fa rivers, to the south, and Chicama River to the north. Pacasmayo Province, located more to the north, is along the coast. To the east, S\u00e1nchez Carri\u00f3n Province waterways drain into the Amazon River and thus belong to the Atlantic Ocean watershed.\nDemographics.\nPopulation.\nLa Libertad region is the third-most populous in Peru; the census 2007 recorded 1,617,050 residents, representing 5.9% of the Peruvian population. It was surpassed only by the Department of Lima and Piura. In 2012 its capital Trujillo is the second-most populated metropolitan area in Peru and the largest city in northern Peru. The largest population is concentrated in provincial capitals and districts, which comprise the majority urban population in La Libertad region. The migrant population to the region comes from border departments and immigrants from other countries.\nPrincipal cities.\nThe principal cities in La Libertad region are shown in the next table.\nPolitical division.\nThe Region is separated into 12 provinces (\"provincias\"), political divisions that generally correspond to counties in the United States of America. A Peruvian Region has as its head political executive a governor (\"governador\"), an elected official. The head political executive of each province is a lieutenant governor (\"teniente governador\"), an official appointed by the governor. These 12 provinces comprise a total of 80 districts (\"distritos\"). The provinces, with their capitals are:\nEconomy.\nPrincipal companies.\nSome of the main companies in La Libertad Region are the following:\nArchaeology.\nThe coastal strip set the stage for the rise of many pre-Columbian cultures, such as the pre-Ceramic Huaca Prieta civilization, which is more than 5,000 years old &amp; the Cupisnique, which is more than 3,000 years old. From 200 A.C., the first one to expand beyond its cradle was the Moche or Mochica culture. It was basically an agriculture and/or a warrior culture, which built countless temples and palaces such as the \"Sol\" (Sun), \"Luna\" (Moon), \"El Brujo\" &amp; \"Cao Viejo\", and other huacas. The Chim\u00fa culture emerged later and built its capital in Chan Chan, the largest pre-Columbian city in South America, &amp; huacas like \"Esmeralda\" &amp; \"Arco Iris\" (Rainbow). At its zenith, Chan Chan was home to 60,000 inhabitants who stubbornly resisted the expansion of the Inca Empire. These ancient cultures used irrigation canals and water reservoirs, which systems were increasingly better engineered and extensive over the years. The technological acumen of these sophisticated agricultural systems was carried into the Inca Empire, which surrounded the remnants of the prior cultures. The Spanish colonizers destroyed most of the agricultural works to more effectively establish political control and provide \"de facto\" slave labor from the displaced native agriculturalists.\nThe archaeological remains of Chan Chan, 6\u00a0km (3.7\u00a0mi) northeast of downtown Trujillo, are rather well-preserved despite being built out of adobe (mud bricks), largely because 1) dearth of rainfall and consequent erosion, and 2) lack of significant re-use of its construction materials (adobes do not respond easily to removal and transport and are relatively cheap to make on-site in current methods of construction).\nDuring the Late Moche phase (AD 600 to 850), one of the largest power centers of the region was the fortified site of Cerro Chep\u00e9n in the Jequetepeque Valley. It is located to the south of the site of San Jos\u00e9 de Moro.\nCerro Chep\u00e9n has a sophisticated system of fortifications, and a dominant position on top of the hill, with many monumental buildings. Recent excavations at the site revealed that there was much internal conflict there that affected local communities.\nArcheological sites.\nSome of the archeological sites in La Libertad Region are:\nWater supply and sanitation.\nThe public company for water supply and sanitation in La Libertad Region is SEDALIB which is formed by shareholders of municipalities of the Region."}
{"id": "714881", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714881", "title": "Monte Hall Problem", "text": ""}
{"id": "714886", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714886", "title": "Nebraska State Legislature", "text": ""}
{"id": "714889", "revid": "51798770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714889", "title": "Jump shot (basketball)", "text": "In basketball (and derivatives like netball), a player may attempt to score a basket by leaping straight into the air, the elbow of the shooting hand cocked, ball in hand above the head, and launching the ball in a high arc towards the basket for a jump shot (colloquially, a jumper). Although early critics thought the leap might lead to indecision in the air, the jump shot replaced the earlier, less quickly released \"set shot\", and eventually transformed the game because it is the easiest shot to make from a distance and more difficult for a defender to block. Variations on the simple jump shot include the \"turnaround jumper\" (facing away from the basket, then jumping and spinning towards it, shooting the ball in mid-air); the \"fadeaway\" (jumping \"away\" from the basket to create space); and the \"leaning jumper\" (jumping towards the basket to move away from a trailing defender). With the \"hook shot,\" a player is turned sideways with the shooting arm away from the basket outstretched so that with a sweep he can launch the ball over his head. Since a defender must leap to block a jumper, the shooter may use a pump fake to get the defender in the air at the wrong time and so have a clear shot. If the shooter leaps into the defender, a foul is called on the defensive player, whereas the shooter is awarded two throws according to the value of a missed attempt, or a single free throw.\nTechnique.\nThough techniques differ from player to player, coaches and instructors stress \"BEEF\" when shooting: Balance, Eyes, Elbows, &amp; Follow Through. Because players have different builds, play styles, and individual preferences, not every player strictly adheres to this form.\nWhen performing the jump shot maneuver, balance is paramount. While elite shooters like Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson can get off shots from a myriad of angles, a solid base\u2014one with feet pointed towards the basket\u2014greatly increases the chance of making the shot: \"[p]roficient free throw shooters had greater knee and elbow flexion\". A strong base that uses legs and core improves the chances the jump shooter will have of making a shot from distance\u2014using legs and core to spring up will get the player enough power to get the ball in the basket. Eyes locked on the rim, shooters know what to aim for; some players elect to aim for the front of the rim, some the back. The elbow is considered the make-or-break aspect of a shooting form\u2014 having the elbow straight and in line with the rim keeps the ball on target, according to Steve Kerr. The shooting hand should be cocked onto the ball; when raising arms to shoot, the shooting arm should form an angle between 45\u00ba and 90\u00ba with the elbow straight. Following through on the shot puts rotation, or spin, on the ball to keep it on its trajectory. This is done by flicking the wrist and pointing fingers down.\nDebate still continues as to who invented the jump shot. In the NCAA collegiate archives, John Miller Cooper, who played at the University of Missouri in the 1930s, is recognized as the person to hoist the first jump shot. However, John Christgau, in \"The Origins of the Jump Shot\", makes a strong case that Ken Sailors did so in May 1934. Sailors went on to play for the University of Wyoming and was selected as MVP of their 1943 NCAA Championship team. Sailors also played for five different teams in the old American Basketball League. Other people that Christgau credits with the jump shot are Glen \"Glenn\" Roberts, Myer \"Whitey\" Skoog, John \"Mouse\" Gonzales, Bud Palmer, Davage \"Dave\" Minor, \u201cJumping\u201d Joe Fulks, Johnny Adams, and Belus Smawley. Hank Luisetti is credited with popularizing the jump shot. Paul Arizin popularized the running jump shot.\nAdvancement.\nIn the last ten years, the National Basketball Association has seen an increase in the percentage of three-pointers taken. With this increase \u2014from 22% in 2011 to 39% in 2021\u2014, the percentage of \u201cdeep twos\u201d, or midrange jump shots, has decreased. The advent of \u201csmall ball\u201d encourages a spread-out, open offense, lending itself to more perimeter shots.\nWith more guards and hybrid, utilitarian position-less players on the floor, shooting more jump shots is incorporated into game strategies by coaches. Traditionally, methodical half court offenses used to swing the ball around, pass it to the big man, who might score inside by sheer strength or footwork grace. Now, the game of basketball as a whole employs a more fast-paced, playstyle that emphasizes passing and perimeter (three point) based offenses.\nAs result, taller players are more comfortable shooters than their similarly statured predecessors. When a larger player is adept at shooting, they are known as a stretch four, as they stretch the floor by pulling their larger (interior) defender out on the perimeter. This opens up driving lanes for other players to attack the rim. Players like Dirk Nowitzki (right) break the mold of a traditional 7-footer; 40 years ago, Nowitzki would have been required to put on weight and become a heavyweight center, but his versatile offensive repertoire allowed him and Steve Nash to change the way opposing defenses guarded the pick and roll. Nowitzki had the ability to \"pick and pop\", spacing the floor for his teammates.\nReferences.\nHaefner, J. (n.d.). Proper Basketball Shooting Technique, Fundamentals, Form, Mechanics. Breakthrough Basketball. Retrieved August 13, 2025, from https://www.breakthroughbasketball.com/fundamentals/shooting-technique.html\nHageman, R. (n.d.). Biomechanics of the Basketball Jump Shot. Physiopedia. Retrieved August 13, 2025, from https://www.physio-pedia.com/Biomechanics_of_the_Basketball_Jump_Shot\nPenner, L. S. J. (2021). Mechanics of the Jump Shot: The \u201cDip\u201d Increases the Accuracy of Elite Basketball Shooters. Frontiers in Psychology, 12, 658102-. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2021.658102\nStruzik, A., Pietraszewski, B., &amp; Zawadzki, J. (2014). Biomechanical Analysis of the Jump Shot in Basketball. Journal of Human Kinetics, 42, 73\u201379. https://doi.org/10.2478/hukin-2014-0062"}
{"id": "714891", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714891", "title": "New York state Legislature", "text": ""}
{"id": "714894", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714894", "title": "North Carolina state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714896", "revid": "38567265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714896", "title": "Department of Lambayeque", "text": "Lambayeque (; ) is a department of Peru. Located in the country's northwest, it is known for its rich Moche and Chim\u00fa historical past. It is the second-smallest department in Peru after Tumbes, but it is also its most densely populated department and its eighth most populous department. It is administered by a regional government. Its capital is Chiclayo.\nEtymology.\nThe name \"Lambayeque\" is a Spanish derivation of the Mochica word for god \"Yampellec\" (\"\u00d1ampaxll\u00e6c\"), said to have been worshipped by the first Lambayeque king, \"Naymlap\". The Spanish gave the name to the early people. It is known as \"Lampalliqi\" in Cajamarca\u2013Ca\u00f1aris Quechua.\nGeography.\nThe vast plains that make up the department of Lambayeque's territory are watered by rivers that originate in the Andes; cultivation is only possible in a small portion of this parched region with irrigation. The fertile river valleys produce half of the sugar cane crop of Peru. In addition, Lambayeque and the department of Piura provide most of the rice crops consumed in Peru.\nIncreased agricultural harvest is expected with completion of the Olmos Transandino Project. The water supply project will transfer up to 2 billion m3 annually of water from the Huancabamba River in the department of Cajamarca east of Lambayeque.\nIn the smaller scale farming of earlier centuries, the Olmos Carob Tree Forest supported goat herds that fed on carobs. The fine goatskins were tanned to create the fine, pale, leather known as \"cordoban\" or \"cordovan\", from the Spanish town of C\u00f3rdoba, where the process was developed. Goat fat was used to make soap.\nThere are two small islands off the Pacific coast of the department of Lambayeque: Lobos de Afuera, and Lobos de Tierra; there was a dispute with the department of Piura over ownership of the latter island.\nThe region is bordered by the Piura Region on the north, the Cajamarca Region on the southeast, the La Libertad Region on the south and the Pacific Ocean on the west.\nHistory.\nLegend tells that in ancient times, a great float of balsa rafts arrived at the beaches of the existing San Jos\u00e9 cove. Formed by a brilliant cortege of nine foreign warriors, this float was led by a man of great talent and courage, named Naymlap, the mythical founder of the first northwest civilization.\nAmong the descendants of Naymlap were the Moche and the Chim\u00fa, the latter builders of a great civilization forged in Lambayeque before being conquered by the later Inca Empire. The Chim\u00fa grew to acquire a notable state parallel to the Inca. The Chim\u00fa moved their capital to the northern area, establishing great urban centers there. They were great farmers, textile experts and, wonderful goldsmiths, with extraordinary works in gold. \nThe Inca conquest of what today is Lambayeque, lasted almost four decades. Pachacuti, Tupac Inca Yupanqui and Huayna C\u00e1pac, successively, ruled during the process.\nIn the 16th century, the Spaniard leader Francisco Pizarro took his conquistadors across the region on the way to Cajamarca to conclude the defeat of the Inca empire. He was amazed by the gold exposed in vases and utensils.\nDuring Colonial times, a rivalry started between the people of the towns of Lambayeque and Santiago de Miraflores de Sa\u00f1a. The reason of the conflict was the opulence in which the latter lived, even provoking the greed of pirates. A flood in 1720, however, destroyed Sa\u00f1a and marked the end of a flourishing city.\nThe people of Lambayeque followed Juan Manuel Iturregui as their leader in the struggles for emancipation and independence from Spain. He spread the libertarian ideas and helped get arms for the cause.\nArchaeology.\nIn November 2019, Peruvian archaeologists led by Walter Alva discovered a 3,000-year-old, 130 feet long megalithic 'water cult' temple with 21 tombs in the Oyot\u00fan district in the Za\u00f1a Valley. Archaeologists assumed that the temple was abandoned around 250 BC and later used as a burial ground by the Chumy people. Twenty of the tombs belonged to the people of Chumy, and one to an adult male buried during the Formative period with a ceramic bottle with two spouts and a bridge handle. According to the excavations, as many as three construction phases took place in the temple: the first was between 1500 BC\u2013800 BC, when people built the foundations of the building from cone-shaped clay; second, between 800 BC\u2013400 BC, when the megalithic temple was built under the influence of the pre-Inca civilization known as the Chavin; and finally 400 BC\u2013100 BC, when people added circular pillars used to hold the roof of the temple.\nPolitical division.\nThe department is divided into 3 provinces (\"provincias\", singular: \"provincia\"), which are composed of 38 districts (\"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\"). The provinces, with their capitals in parentheses, are:\nMusic from Lambayeque.\nThe most famous composer from Lambayeque was Luis Abelardo Nu\u00f1ez, born in Ferre\u00f1afe on 22 November 1926. His songs are among the most popular ones in Peruvian music. These included the following:"}
{"id": "714898", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714898", "title": "Thorough-bass", "text": ""}
{"id": "714899", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714899", "title": "Ohio state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714903", "revid": "42478034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714903", "title": "Mezhdurechensky District", "text": "Mezhdurechensky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "714904", "revid": "38567265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714904", "title": "Department of Lima", "text": "Lima (; , ) is a department of Peru. Located in the country's central coast, it is administered by a regional government based in Huacho, whose jurisdiction does not include the quasi-autonomous special regime of the province of Lima, coterminous with the country's capital, Lima.\nEtymology.\nThe name comes from one of two sources: Either the Aymara language \"lima-limaq\" (meaning \"yellow flower\"), or the Spanish pronunciation of the Quechua word \"rimaq\" (meaning \"talker\", and actually written and pronounced \"limaq\" in the nearby Quechua I languages). It is worth nothing that the same Quechua word is also the source of the name given to the river that feeds the city, the R\u00edmac River (pronounced as in the politically dominant Quechua II languages, with an \"r\" instead of an \"l\"). It is known in Jaqaru, a language spoken in the department's districts of Catahuasi and Tupe, as \"Nimaja\".\nIt was also known simply as the \"Department of the Capital\" from 1821 until 1823.\nHistory.\nOn the northern coast of the region, the first known civilization in the Americas, Caral, emerged around the 4th millennium BC, with some characteristics that were maintained by later cultures of Pre-Columbian Peru: the use of the \"quipu\", regional trade, and monumental religious architecture. The Aymara and Quechua language families also originated in this region.\nThe remains of early Andean inhabitants, hunters and harpoon fishermen from more than 6500 years ago, are to be found in the department. Theey were found in Chivateros, near the Chill\u00f3n River, and in various other places. These persons incorporated nets, hooks, farming, ceramics and weaving to their everyday objects. The inhabitants of the coast lived in the \"lomas\" and the valleys, where they built temples and dwelling complexes, leading to huge ceremonial centres, such as the Huacoy and Anc\u00f3n ((where lithic prehistoric projectile points of Paijan were found) on the Chill\u00f3n River; Garagay and La Florida on the R\u00edmac River, Manchay on the Lur\u00edn River; and Chancay, Supe and many other valleys to the north and south. There are finely ornamented temples with figures modelled in clay. The 5,000-year-old ruins known as El Para\u00edso are also located in this area.\nThe Lima culture (100 to 650 AD) arose in this area, specially in the central valleys from Chancay to Lur\u00edn. It was distinguished by painted adobe buildings. During this time, the Huari conquest took place, thus giving rise to Huari-style ceramics, together with a local style known as Niever\u00eda. As the population grew, their culture changed. With the decline of the Huari, whose most important center was Cajamarquilla, new local cultures arose. The Chancay are the most well-known. They developed large urban centers and a considerable textile production, as well as mass-produced ceramics.\nAt this stage in the mid-15th century, the Incas arrived from their base in the Andes. They conquered and absorbed the regional cultures and occupied important sites such as Pachacamac, turning it into an administrative centre.\nSpanish period.\nThe Spanish conquered and occupied the area in the 16th century. From 1784 to 1821, the area (today part of Lima\u2014except Cajatambo and Oy\u00f3n\u2014and Ica, as well of the coast of Ancash) was administered as the Intendancy of Lima (the \"Cercado de la Capital\"), subdivided into \"partidos\". During the Peruvian War of Independence, the town of Huaura served as the location for the first proclamation of the independence of Peru. Jos\u00e9 de San Mart\u00edn made the announcement from a balcony on November 27, 1820. \n The Department of the Coast () was established on February 12, 1821, through an official document issued by San Mart\u00edn that also created the departments of Huaylas, Tarma and Trujillo, each headed by a president. Their jurisdiction extended to the territory occupied by the Liberating Expedition of Peru. Its capital was Huaura, the seat of its president, whose lone officeholder was . It was subdivided into three provinces: Santa, , and Canta. It was represented at the first Congress of Peru in 1822 by the following:\nSan Mart\u00edn's forces did not reach Lima\u2014located south of the department\u2014for five more months, where he again proclaimed the independence of Peru on July 28, 1821. This time, the announcement took place in four of the city's urban squares: La Merced, Plaza Mayor, Santa Ana and Inquisici\u00f3n. The announcement in the main square was made from the Casa del Oidor\nRepublican period.\nThe Department of the Capital () was created through the a Provisional Statute of August 4, 1821, composed of the \"partidos\" of Cercado de la Capital, Yauyos, Ca\u00f1ete, and Ica, also including the government of Huarochir\u00ed. On November 4, 1823, the department of the Coast was annexed into its territory. In 1835, Santa was transferred to Huaylas.\nOn August 11, 1836, the Republic of North Peru was created following a civil war. Nine days later, Callao was granted autonomy by Protector Andr\u00e9s de Santa Cruz. On October 28, North Peru, to which the department of Lima belonged, joined the Peru\u2013Bolivian Confederation. The War of the Confederation threatened the country's stability, with a seccessionist government headed by Luis Jos\u00e9 de Orbegoso taking control of North Peru. Orbegoso's forces were defeated in a confrontation that took place north of Lima. The Chilean\u2013dissident Peruvian alliance eventually defeated the Confederate forces, and the state dissolved in 1839.\nIn 1855, the province of Ica was separated from the department. It was elevated eleven years later by Mariano Ignacio Prado. The Villa de Huacho was elevated to city level through the law of November 10, 1874, which also made it the provincial capital. The law was passed by Manuel Pardo.\nIn 1879, a war between a Peruvian\u2013Bolivian alliance against Chile began, known as the War of the Pacific. The latter's miiltary campaign was successful, and Lima was occupied by the Chilean Army following a brief land campaign that began in Pisco.\nIn 1916, Cajatambo province, which also included what later became Oy\u00f3n province at the time, was transferred to Lima.\nContemporary period.\nDuring the Internal conflict in Peru, parts of the territory were occupied by the Shining Path. In 1985, Oy\u00f3n province was created. In 1988, Chancay province was dissolved.\nIn 2006, a team of archeological researchers led by Robert Benfer announced their findings from a four-year excavation at Buena Vista in the Chill\u00f3n River valley a few kilometres north of present-day Lima. They had discovered a 4200-year-old observatory constructed by an early Andean civilization, a three-dimensional sculpture, unique for the time period in this region, and sophisticated carvings. The observatory is on top of a 10-meter pyramidal mound and has architectural features for sighting the astronomical solstices. The discovery pushes back the time for the development of complex civilisation in the area and has altered scholars' understanding of Preceramic period cultures in Peru.\nPolitics.\nThe department is administered by a regional government based in Huacho. The province of Lima is administered by the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima. The former is headed by a regional governor, while the latter is headed by the metropolitan mayor.\nList of governors.\nSince 2023, the regional governor of Lima is .\nSubdivisions.\nThe department is divided into ten provinces, which are composed of 171 districts.\nGeography.\nThe department of Lima is bordered by the departments of Ancash on the north, Hu\u00e1nuco, Pasco, and Jun\u00edn on the east, Huancavelica on the southeast, Ica on the south, and the Pacific Ocean and the Lima Province on the west.\nThe department has a coastal and an Andean zone, and has a great diversity of natural regions: the Coast or \"Chala\" (0 to 500 meters above sea level) up to the \"Janka\" or \"Mountain range\" (, over 4800 meters). The predominating regions are the \"Yunga\" (500 to 2300 meters above sea level) and \"Quechua\" (2300 to 3500 meters)\nClimate.\nThe department's climate is subtropical, desert and humid; a microclimate with temperatures that fluctuate between temperate and warm. The average temperature is 18 \u00b0C. The coast has cloudy skies from June to November, with sporadic appearances of the sun in those months, although the areas and places far from the sea in the climatic region called Yungas, above 500 metres above sea level and where Chosica, Cieneguilla, La Molina and Canto Grande are located in San Juan de Lurigancho, they have sunny afternoons and higher average temperatures (especially if we are above 1310 meters above sea level). On the coastal coast, the mass of clouds is due to the cold waters of the Humboldt Current that run through the South Pacific Ocean, which reduces the ambient temperature between 6 and 9 \u00b0C, and therefore evaporation from the sea is less. The gar\u00faa or drizzle is the typical rain of the region. The humidity level has a permanent average of 80%. The usual average annual temperature is 14\u00b0C during winter and 25.5\u00b0C during all summers.\nEconomy.\nThe department is the main centre of economic-financial, service and manufacturing activity in the country. In agriculture, its tang\u00fcis cotton crops, its sugar crops, fruit trees and take-out bread products stand out. In livestock farming, the raising of cattle, sheep and pigs. In poultry farming, there are countless poultry farms; In artisanal fishing, fish and mollusks are extracted for immediate human consumption. 70% of the country's industries are concentrated in the region, from those that process fish oil and meal (in Chancay, Supe and Huacho), to others that refine oil (in La Pampilla and Conch\u00e1n) and zinc (in Cajamarquilla), or that are dedicated to metal-mechanics, textiles, manufacturing and food processing. In terms of energy, there are the Moyopampa, Huampani, Matucana, Huinco, Sheque and Cahua hydroelectric plants. In addition, there is the Santa Rosa thermal power plant. Because it is the first economy in the country, it is the most developed in areas that other departments do not consolidate and it is the most prone to suffer problems from abroad due to the importance of international trade for Peru, it controls the greatest development and at the moment the country can double its size in 2014.\nDemographics.\nAccording to the Instituto Nacional de Estad\u00edstica e Inform\u00e1tica, most of the country's inhabitants are located in the department's capital which, in 2025, was numbered at 10,432,133 people, or 30.4% of the total population.\nTransportation.\nThe department is served by a railway system operated by the Ferrocarril Central Andino consortium that connects Lima with Huancayo and Cerro de Pasco. A railway that would connect the city of Lima with Ica is also planned.\nMetropolitan Lima is serviced by the Metropolitano bus system, as well as a metro system it shares with Callao.\nCulture.\nEducation.\nIn 2020, Lima was the department where the monthly spending in education was the highest (S/. 108), followed by Arequipa (S/ 76.3), Callao (S/ 60.9), Jun\u00edn (S/ 52.0) and Ica (S/ 46.0).\nLandmarks.\nPoints of interest in the department include Caral, Lachay National Reserve and Nor Yauyos-Cochas Landscape Reserve.\nThe Lachay National Reserve, in the Huaura province, is a unique mist-fed eco-system of wild plant and animal species, is a natural reserve located in the north of the department.\nHuacho is the capital of the Lima Region and the most populous city of the department (excluding Lima which is administered by an autonomous government, the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima). Sitting at the bottom of a wide bay, it has a pleasant and dry climate. In its vicinity is the Huaura River where rice, cotton, sugar cane and different fruits and cereals are grown. This has given rise to an important cotton industry as well as soap and oil factories.\nLunahuan\u00e1 District of Ca\u00f1ete Province, is located away from the south city of San Vicente de Ca\u00f1ete. The Incahuasi Archeological complex is located there. Lunahuan\u00e1 has a dry climate and the sun shines during most of the year. Lately, Lunahuan\u00e1 has become an adventure sports paradise, such as: \"Canotaje\" (Whitewater Rafting), \"Parapente\" &amp; \"Ala Delta\". Whitewater rafting is possible due to the Ca\u00f1ete River, which has rapids up to level 4. The main settlement in this district is the town of Lunahuan\u00e1."}
{"id": "714905", "revid": "1189543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714905", "title": "John Dominis", "text": "John Dominis (June 27, 1921 \u2013 December 30, 2013) was an American documentary photographer, war photographer and photojournalist.\nLife.\nDominis was born 1921 in Los Angeles. He studied cinematography at the University of Southern California. In 1943 he enlisted in the United States Army Air Forces. After the war, he worked as a freelance photographer for several publications, such as \"Life\" magazine. In 1950 he went to Korea as a war photographer in the Korean War.\nLater he worked in Southeast Asia, in America, Africa and Europe, including President John F. Kennedy's 1963 West Berlin speech. Dominis went to six Olympic Games. One of his best-known pictures was shot during the 1968 Summer Olympics, when Dominis pictured Tommie Smith and John Carlos during their Black Power salute.\nDominis worked for \"Life\" magazine during the Vietnam War and later also went to Woodstock. In the 1970s he worked for \"People\" magazine. From 1978 to 1982 he was an editor for the \"Sports Illustrated\". He often pictured stars like Steve McQueen or Frank Sinatra, and these photo series were later published as illustrated books. Together with Giuliano Bugialli he published several books about the Italian cuisine, with Dominis being responsible for the food photography.\nIn John Loengard's book \"Life Photographers: What They Saw\", Dominis reported about the staging of his picture \"A leopard about to kill a baboon\". The picture was shot in 1966 in Botswana when a hunter had brought a captured leopard to a bunch of baboons. Most fled immediately but one faced the leopard and was killed subsequently. Dominis was heavily criticized after the staging became public and apologized for it. He mentioned that during the 1960s the staging of pictures was very popular and he wouldn't use this method today.\nDominis died December 30, 2013, in New York City of complications from a heart attack. He was 92."}
{"id": "714908", "revid": "51387849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714908", "title": "Ridge", "text": "A ridge is a long, narrow, elevated geomorphologic landform, structural feature, or a combination of both separated from the surrounding terrain by steep sides. The sides of a ridge slope away from a narrow top, the crest or ridgecrest, with the terrain dropping down on either side. The crest, if narrow, is also called a ridgeline. Limitations on the dimensions of a ridge are lacking. Its height above the surrounding terrain can vary from less than a meter to hundreds of meters. A ridge can be either depositional, erosional, tectonic, or a combination of these in origin and can consist of either bedrock, loose sediment, lava, or ice depending on its origin. A ridge can occur as either an isolated, independent feature or part of a larger geomorphological and/or structural feature. Frequently, a ridge can be further subdivided into smaller geomorphic or structural elements.\nClassification.\nAs in the case of landforms in general, there is a lack of any commonly agreed classification or typology of ridges. They can be defined and classified on the basis of a variety of factors including either genesis, morphology, composition, statistical analysis of remote sensing data, or some combinations of these factors.\nAn example of ridge classification is that of Schoeneberger and Wysocki, which provides a relatively simple and straightforward system that is used by the USA National Cooperative Soil Survey Program to classify ridges and other landforms. This system uses the dominant geomorphic process or setting to classify different groups of landforms into two major groups, \"Geomorphic Environments\" and \"Other Groupings\" with a total of 16 subgroups. The groups and their subgroups are not mutually exclusive; landforms, including ridges, can belong to multiple subgroups. In this classification, ridges are found in the Aeolian, Coastal Marine and Estuarine, Lacustrine, Glacial, Volcanic and Hydrothermal, Tectonic and Structural, Slope, and Erosional subgroups."}
{"id": "714909", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714909", "title": "Community Telegraph", "text": "The Community Telegraph was a free distribution newspaper published by Independent News &amp; Media.\nThe newspaper, a sister paper of the paid-for title, \"The Belfast Telegraph\", was created in order to replace its direct predecessor, the now defunct \"Herald and Post\", also a freesheet.\nThe \"Community Telegraph\" was distributed weekly in four editions throughout north, south, east Belfast and County Down, Northern Ireland. Its paid-for competitors were the \"North Belfast News\" and \"South Belfast News\" from the Andersonstown News group, and the \"Bangor Spectator\" and \"Newtownards Chronicle\". In April 2007 the paper was relaunched as The CT and in June that year a website was launched.\nOne journalist was assigned to each edition and was responsible for all aspects of editorial production - writing stories, taking photographs, designing pages and publishing on the internet. Leading UK media commentator Roy Greenslade has highlighted the model as one which other newspapers may adopt due to the potential for huge cost savings.\nThe \"Community Telegraph\" (and its four editions) was closed in December 2013, with INM describing the titles as \"no longer sustainable\" in light of falling print advertising revenues."}
{"id": "714913", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714913", "title": "Rhode Island state General Assembly", "text": ""}
{"id": "714917", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714917", "title": "Texas state Legislature", "text": ""}
{"id": "714923", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714923", "title": "Endothelial microparticle", "text": ""}
{"id": "714927", "revid": "50593863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714927", "title": "Small forward", "text": "The small forward (SF), also known as the three, is one of the five positions in a regulation basketball game. Small forwards are typically shorter, quicker, and leaner than power forwards and centers but taller, larger, and stronger than either of the guard positions. They are strategic and are often relied upon to score, defend, create open lanes, and rebound for their team.\nThe small forward is considered to be perhaps the most versatile of the five main basketball positions as they contribute offensively and defensively. In the NBA, small forwards typically range from 6' 6\" (1.98 m) to 6' 9\" (2.06 m); in the WNBA, they are usually between 6' 0\" (1.83 m) to 6' 2\" (1.88 m). This puts them at the average height of all professional basketball players because they are taller than the guards, but shorter than the power forward and center. \nSmall forwards are responsible for scoring points and defending, and often are secondary or tertiary rebounders behind the power forward and center. In professional basketball, some have considerable passing responsibilities, and many are prolific scorers.\nStyle of play.\nThe styles with which small forwards score vary widely. Some are very accurate shooters, such as Kevin Durant, and some prefer to initiate physical contact with opposing players, such as LeBron James. Other small forwards are often primarily slashers who also possess jump shots. In some cases, small forwards position on the baseline; in other cases, they operate as off-ball specialists. The defensive specialists among them are notably versatile, often being able to guard multiple positions using their size, speed, and strength. Having adequate footwork and a solid defensive stance contributes to why small forwards are successful. When it comes to statistics, small forwards must be all over the map and at least have stats in most categories.\nThere are many excellent small forwards that are well known for their contributions and versatility. Top small forwards in the history of the WNBA include: Maya Moore, Angel McCoughtry, Tamika Catchings, Elena Delle Donne, and DeWanna Bonner. Small forwards inducted in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame include Julius Erving, Larry Bird, James Worthy, Elgin Baylor, Paul Pierce, Vince Carter, John Havlicek, Scottie Pippen, Alex English, Bernard King, Chris Mullin, Dominique Wilkins, Rick Barry, Grant Hill, Tamika Catchings, Cheryl Miller, and Sheryl Swoopes."}
{"id": "714928", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714928", "title": "Greenland Dog", "text": "The Greenland Dog (Greenlandic: \"Kalaallit Qimmiat\", Danish: \"Gr\u00f8nlandshund\") is a large breed of husky-type dog kept as a sled dog. They were brought from Siberia to North America by the Thule people 1,000 years ago, along with the Canadian Eskimo Dog. The Canadian Eskimo Dog is considered the same breed as the Greenland Dog since they have not yet diverged enough genetically to be considered separate breeds, despite their geographic isolation.\nToday, the breed is considered nationally and culturally important to Greenland and efforts are made to safeguard its purity. In western Greenland north of the Arctic Circle and the entirety of eastern Greenland, it is illegal to import any dog from outside (except for police and assistance dogs with a special permit), and since 2017 all dogs have to be microchipped and registered in the Greenland dog database. In the southwest, such restrictions are not in place and the purity of dogs is not monitored. As the population has been falling ( 15,000 in Greenland as of 2016), a number of projects have been initiated in an attempt of ensuring that Greenland's dog sledding culture, knowledge and use, along with the breed itself, are not lost.\nHistory.\nAn Esquimaux bitch was exhibited at one of the earliest dog shows held in Darlington, Britain on 29 July 1875, which was reported in the \"Live Stock Journal\" and \"Fanciers Gazette\" published on 6 August 1875. They were recognized by the Kennel Club at its foundation in 1880.\nThe Greenland dog has been a draught animal in the Arctic regions for centuries and consequently they have developed a powerful body and heavy coats, with a natural capacity for load pulling and endurance in a harsh working environment. Roald Amundsen later used Greenland dogs to great success on his 1912 expedition to the Antarctic, where he became the first person to reach the South Pole. The men started with more dogs than they technically needed to pull the sledges, killing them along the way to use as food for dogs and men.\nLineage.\nThe first dogs arrived in the Americas 12,000 years ago. However, people and their dogs did not settle in the Arctic until the Paleo-Eskimo people 4,500 years ago and then the Thule people 1,000 years ago, both originating from Siberia. Dogs first appeared in Greenland around 4,000 years ago. The Inuit dogs from Canada (Canadian Eskimo Dog) and Greenland (Greenland Dog) descended from dogs associated with Thule people, who relied on them for transportation from Siberia. In 2015, a study using a number of genetic markers indicated that these were both the same dog and should not be treated as separate breeds, that they maintain an indigenous heritage that predates colonization and the timing corresponds with the arrival of the Thule people, and that they were distinct from Siberian Huskies, Alaskan Huskies and Malamutes. The maternal mitochondrial DNA sequences of the Inuit dogs were classified as haplotype A31 that indicates a common female ancestor, and this haplotype could not be found in other modern dogs but the nearest match was with a 1,000 year-old dog from Florida.\nNearly all dog breed's genetic closeness to the grey wolf is due to admixture. However, several Arctic dog breeds show a genetic closeness with the now-extinct Taimyr wolf of North Asia due to admixture. These breeds are associated with high latitudes \u2013 the Siberian Husky and Greenland Dog that are also associated with Arctic human populations, and to a lesser extent the Shar Pei and Finnish Spitz. An admixture graph of the Greenland dog indicates a best-fit of 3.5% shared material, however an ancestry proportion ranging between 1.4% and 27.3% is consistent with the data. This indicates admixture between the Taymyr wolf population and the ancestral dog population of these 4 high-latitude breeds. This introgression could have provided early dogs living in high latitudes with phenotypic variation beneficial for adaption to a new and challenging environment. It also indicates the ancestry of present-day dog breeds descends from more than one region.\nIn 2020, a genetic study found that Greenland sled dogs have been kept isolated from other breeds since their arrival in Greenland with the Inuit 850 years ago. Their lineage traces more genomic history than other arctic-breeds to their ancestor's remains which were found on Zhokhov Island, arctic northeastern Siberia and dated to be 9,500 years old. Based on this study, the Greenland Dog is considered one of the oldest dog breeds according to Guinness World Records.\nDescription.\nAppearance.\nThe Greenland Dog is a powerful, heavy-built dog. It has a broad, wedge-shaped head, slightly tilted eyes and small, triangular ears covered with thick fur that prevents frostbite. It has strong, muscular, short-haired legs. The tail is usually rolled along/across its back. When it lies down and curls up to rest, the tail often covers the nose. Its coat is of medium length and consists of two layers. The inner layer consists of short wool-like fur, the outer layer of longer, coarser, water-repellent fur. The Greenland Dog comes in all colors, from black to fawn (excluding albino dogs and merle patterning). Blue eyes and heterochromia are not permitted, and are considered disqualifications based on standard.\nA characteristic of most Greenland Dogs is the \"\u00falo\", a triangular shaped area on the shoulders. It is named after a common woman's-knife from Greenland which is of the same shape.\nMales are significantly larger than females at 60cm (23.6in) and up at the withers; females are 55cm (21.7in) and up.\nStamina.\nAs is common among sled dogs, Greenland Dogs are able to traverse very difficult terrain with ease and with a high tempo. As working dogs they are especially valued for their physical strength and endurance, with a tireless and bold mentality."}
{"id": "714936", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714936", "title": "James W. Huffman", "text": "James Wylie Huffman (September 13, 1894May 20, 1980) was an American lawyer and Democratic Party politician from Ohio. He represented Ohio in the United States Senate from 1945 until 1946.\nEarly life.\nHuffman was born in Chandlersville, Ohio on September 13, 1894 and attended the schools of Rich Hill Township in Muskingum County as well as schools in Ashland County. He was a student at Ohio Wesleyan University and Ohio State University, then worked as a high school teacher and principal for three years.\nWorld War I.\nHuffman joined the United States Army for World War I. He completed officer training, received his commission as a second lieutenant, and was assigned as a machine gun officer for the 329th Infantry Regiment, a unit of the 83rd Division. He was subsequently assigned to the 120th Machine Gun Battalion, a unit of the 32nd Division. Huffman participated in four major American Expeditionary Forces offensives -- Aisne\u2013Marne, Oise\u2013Aisne, Meuse\u2013Argonne, and Argonne Forest. In 1918, he was promoted to first lieutenant. After the Armistice of 11 November 1918 ended the war, Huffman remained in Germany for six months of occupation duty.\nCareer.\nHuffman was discharged from the army in 1919 and attended the University of Chicago Law School, from which he graduated with an LL.B. degree in 1922. He was admitted to the bar in Illinois and practiced in Chicago. He carried out a temporary appointment as an assistant state attorney general in 1923, then decided to return to Ohio.\nIn 1925, Huffman married Margaret Catherine Donahey, the daughter of Governor A. Victor Donahey. Huffman served as Donahey's executive assistant during his governorship, and was a member of the state public utilities commission from 1927 to 1929. At the expiration of his term, Huffman began to practice law in Columbus. In 1944, Huffman ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination for Ohio governor. He subsequently served as Ohio's director of commerce during the first term of Governor Frank Lausche.\nU.S. Senator.\nIn 1945, Senator Harold Hitz Burton resigned in order to accept appointment to the United States Supreme Court. Lausche appointed Huffman to fill the vacancy and he served in the U.S. Senate from October 8, 1945 to November 5, 1946, when Kingsley A. Taft defeated him in the election to complete the remainder of the term. After leaving the Senate, Huffman resumed practicing law until 1957, when he became president of the Motorists Mutual Insurance Company. He later became president of a newly-formed subsidiary, Motorists Life Insurance Company.\nDeath and burial.\nHuffman died in Pickerington, Ohio on May 20, 1980. He was buried at Arlington National Cemetery."}
{"id": "714937", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714937", "title": "Department of Loreto", "text": "Loreto () is a department of Peru. Covering almost one-third of Peru's territory, it is Peru's largest and northernmost department, occupying a large part of the country's portion of the Amazon rainforest. Slightly smaller than Japan or Germany, it is also one of the most sparsely populated regions due to its remote location in the region. Its capital is Iquitos.\nIts territory was once part of the General Command of Maynas, a subdivision of the Spanish Empire created in 1802. The overlapping claims over the region following the Spanish American wars of independence was the genesis for two different territorial disputes between Peru and its neighbours. The dispute with Colombia lasted until 1934, while the dispute with Ecuador only ended in 1999. Both disputes led to armed conflict in a number of occasions.\nThe territory of Maynas was first incorporated into Peru as part of the Department of La Libertad until 1825. On November 21, 1832, the Department of Amazonas was created, which included the province. This subdivision was granted autonomy through by a law issued by Ram\u00f3n Castilla on March 10, 1853, and was ultimately elevated to a department on September 7, 1866.\nHistory.\nThe first settlers in the region expanded through the various eastern slopes of the Andes. Many of these ethnic groups settled in the Pur\u00fas, Tur\u00faa and Yarav\u00ed river basins, receiving names different from those of their lineage.\nIt is hard to determine the number of indigenous peoples in the region when the first European explorers and missionaries arrived. Numbers given by chroniclers indicate that within the first century of contact, 100,000 natives were baptized. Presumably, when the Spanish arrived, the total population was almost 300,000. Later on, however, the natives were afflicted with diseases such as smallpox, malaria, and yellow fever, due to contact with the Spaniards.\nSpanish period.\nIt is argued that upon the arrival of the Spanish in America, various exogenous diseases\u2014such as malaria\u2014spread throughout the Amazon rainforest and the rest of the continent, decimating the indigenous population or at least significantly reducing it. During this period, Francisco de Orellana arrived in the area, departing from the city of Guayaquil on February 4, 1541. After reaching Quito, he reorganized his expedition and advanced into the jungle, navigating the Napo River to its mouth, where he discovered the Amazon River in 1542.\nThe Spanish Crown failed to impose its dominion in the region as it did in the Andes. The territory was part of the Viceroyalty of Peru from its inception, then became part of the Viceroyalty of New Granada for a period under ten years, before returning to the Viceroyalty of Peru. During its time in Gran Colombia, it was unable to establish \"de facto\" control from Quito; even Jesuit, Dominican and Franciscan missionaries departed to evangelize the various ethnic groups from the city of Moyobamba, which belonged to the Royal Audiencia of Lima. During these years, they contributed by opening travel routes and cutting down distances between Indian and Spanish settlements. This ecclesiastical presence was also the only significant Spanish presence in the Amazonian lowlands at that time and even until the founding of the republic. When the missions fell, a long period of relative national neglect followed, encompassing most of the 19th century. What would become Iquitos was founded in the 1750s.\nIn 1784, the \"corregimiento\" system was replaced by that of the intendancies. The area became part of that of Trujillo, divided into seven \"partidos\". In 1802, the General Command of Maynas and Quixos was created through a \"real c\u00e9dula\", separating it from the Audiencia of Quito and reincorporating it into Peru. The capital of the territory at the time was Moyobamba, and its territory encompassed the area currently part of Loreto, Amazonas, La Libertad and San Mart\u00edn.\nFollowing the establishment of a Peruvian state in 1821, what would later become the department of Loreto was central to two territorial disputes: one involving Colombia, which ended in 1934, and another one involving Ecuador, which ended in 1999. Maynas seceded from Spain following a 21-month military campaign that concluded in 1823.\nRepublican period.\nThe Department of Quijos and Maynas () was established through a Supreme Decree on April 26, 1822. Prior to its creation, its territory had been administered by the department of Trujillo. Its capital was Moyobamba. It was the site of a pro-Royalist sublevation following its establishment in 1822, which ultimately failed as Moyobamba was again occupied by troops of the Peruvian Army headed by on September 25. Shortly after the rebellion was suppressed, its first governor was named.\nMaynas was administered with ambiguity and without a clear political demarcation due to the confusion caused by the \"uti possidetis\" agreement of 1810. In Republican Peru, the name simply referred to an area mentioned by Torre Tagle's decree that mentioned a population of 15,000 people which allegedly had produced a deputy to represent them at the first Congress of the country. During its existence, it was administered by a total of two governors:\nIts territory was reincorporated into the department of Trujillo in 1825. At the time, Carlos del Castillo had been appointed as deputy representing the province within the department in Congress.\nIn 1828, the territorial dispute over the territory led to a full-scale war between Peru and Colombia. This had been preceded by the official visit of Joaqu\u00edn Mosquera in 1822, where he requested that Peru return Maynas to Colombia. On July 25, 1824, the Congress of Gran Colombia passed a territorial division law, intending to include the Canton of Quijos within the province of Pichincha in the department of Quito, according to its boundaries at the time of the creation of the Viceroyalty of New Granada. It also intended to incorporate the provinces of Ja\u00e9n de Bracamoros and Maynas into the department of Azuay.\nOn November 1, 1832, the territory made up of the provinces of Chachapoyas and Maynas were separated from the department of La Libertad to form the department of Amazonas, whose prefecture headquarters was established in the city of Chachapoyas. The province of Maynas was separated from the prefecture of Amazonas on March 10, 1853. On April 15, it was renamed the \"Provincia Fluvial de Loreto\" and, on July 7, 1857, Moyobamba was made the capital of Loreto province. In 1961, it was made a Maritime and Military Government ().\nOn September 7. 1866, the department was created, with its capital in Moyobamba. During the late 19th century, the rubber boom led to a 25-year period of prosperity, as the area was the centre of worldwide interest at the time. The city of Iquitos prospered as one of the most important centres of latex export at the expense of the department's capital, Moyobamba. Additionally, the feeling of abandonment by the Peruvian government, as well as threats from neighbouring countries had contributed to the development of a feeling of disconnect from the rest of Peru among the local population. During the electoral campaign during the 1895 Peruvian presidential election, candidate Nicol\u00e1s de Pi\u00e9rola had expressed his support in implanting the federalist system in the country. However, after becoming the president, Pi\u00e9rola had supported the centralist system instead. These events eventually led to the locals revolting against the government in 1896.\nFirst insurgent period.\nThe Federal State of Loreto () was the unrecognised government body proclaimed by insurrect locals, with Iquitos as its capital. Its goal was to gain more autonomy for the region as well as to reform Peru into a federal state. The proclamation was made on May 2, 1896, by colonel Ricardo Seminario y Arambur\u00fa and soldier Mariano Jos\u00e9 Madue\u00f1o. On May 8, the state had signed a provisional constitution, which stated that it was an integral part of Peru, subject to its constitution. By June 2, the movement had spread to the cities of Yurimaguas and Moyobamba. Following that, political organizations and public offices were established in those cities.\nNews about the proclamation reached Lima on May 18, 1896. The information came from Rio de Janeiro, being relayed through Par\u00e1. Pi\u00e9rola ordered the rerouting of three expeditions to counterattack the insurgents. The two of them were land campaigns. One\u2014led by army colonels Eduardo Jessup and Emilio Vizcarra\u2014travelled from Chiclayo to Cajamarca, following the river to reach Moyobamba. Another one travelled by railway and then by boat on the Pichis River. The third expedition of 292 men, had traveled on board of the gunboat \"Constituci\u00f3n\", crossing the Strait of Magellan and then entering the Amazon River on 29 June. The last expedition didn't arrive on time. The insurgent forces lacked local support and were defeated by the land expeditions on July 10, 1896. On July 16, it had been reported in Lima that the leaders of the rebellion had fled the country.\nFollowing the insurrection, colonel Vizcarra was appointed as the prefect of the department. Its capital was Moyobamba. He slowly began to adapt the local pro-regional views that had led to the insurrection. In 1897, the Department of San Mart\u00edn was created, with Iquitos becoming Loreto's new political capital.\nSecond insurgent period.\nThe Jungle Nation (), also known as the Jungle Republic (), was proclaimed by colonel Vizcarra on May 22, 1899, who then acquired the title of the Supreme Leader. His political campaign had been financed by businessman Juan Jim\u00e9nez Pimentel. In response, President Eduardo L\u00f3pez de Roma\u00f1a ordered colonel Teobaldo Guti\u00e9rrez to siege the southern territory of the self-proclaimed state. The reaction of the neighbouring countries of Brazil, Colombia, and Ecuador, was indifferent.\nOn February 27, 1900, while on a tour across Loretan cities to appoint new authorities, Vizcarra got involved in a civil revolt at the main square in Moyobamba in response to the abuse carried out by his militias against the local population. During the fighting, the supreme leader was lethally hit with a rock in the head, by a woman with the surname Tapullima. Following his death, the state had fallen a few days later and has been reincorporated into Peru.\nThird insurgent period.\nThe Third Federal State of Loreto was proclaimed in 1921 as a federated state within Peru by Army captain Guillermo Cervantes V\u00e1squez. The proclation was a response to the region's perceived neglect by the government, in both trade and its intent of ceding cerritory to Colombia. Cervantes had previously participated in a conflict against Colombia in 1911. The provisional government, headed in Iquitos, soon expanded its control to Amazonas and San Mart\u00edn.\nOn its second day of existence, after it withdrew twenty-thousand Peruvian pounds, the rebel authorities authorized the distribution of provisional banknotes made out of cardboard used by locals as currency. Martial law and a curfew were declared, and local ports were ordered shut, with local trade and navigation being tightly controlled. The revolution was quickly accepted by the local population, but was met negatively by President Augusto B. Legu\u00eda, who sent a few troops to the area, and shut down trade to the region. The local guerrillas' military inferiority soon became apparent, and by early 1922, a famished Iquitos had been occupied by Peruvian troops headed by captain Genaro Matos, while Cervantes had escaped on January 9, seeking refuge in the Ecuadorian jungle and with his army soon becoming little more than an insurgent force.\nContemporary period.\nThe rubber boom ended during the early 20th century. During this period, atrocities were commited against local Natives.\nIn late 1932, a civilian takeover of the port of Leticia in response to the 1922 border agreement led to an undeclared war between Colombia and Peru. Similarly, Ecuadorian claims over the region led to a full-scale war in 1941.\nIn 1964, the Peruvian government bombed Mats\u00e9s communities in Loreto due to clashes with anti-government protestors belonging to the community.\nIn 1980, the province of Coronel Portillo was separated from Loreto to form the Department of Ucayali.\nOn December 17, 2018, the Congress of the Republic eliminated the exemption from the payment of the IGV (General Sales Tax).\nGeography.\nLoreto's large territory comprises parts of the high and low jungle, and is largely covered with thick vegetation.\nThis territory has wide river flood plains, which are covered with rainwater and are usually swamped in summer. In these flood areas there are elevated sectors called \"restingas\", which always remain above water, even in times of the greatest swellings. There are numerous lagoons known as \"cochas\" and \"tipishcas\", surrounded by marshy areas with abundant grass vegetation.\nNumerous rivers cross Loreto's territory, all of which are part of the Amazonian hydrographical system. Most of them are navigable. The main river crossing the region is the Amazon, one of the world's most important rivers. Its numerous curves are always changing and sometimes make for a difficult journey. The width between banks of the Amazon sometimes measures a staggering . The Yavari River runs from Peru to Brazil, the Putumayo River serves as part of the border with Colombia, and the Ucayali and Mara\u00f1\u00f3n rivers penetrate Loreto after going through the Pongo de Manseriche.\nClimate.\nThe weather is warm and humid with an average temperature of to during the months of June and July, and up to a high of from December through March.\nThe average humidity level is 84%, with strong rain all year round.\nPolitics.\nThe department is administered by a regional government based in Iquitos. It is administered by the Catholic Church in Peru as part of the apostolic vicariates of Iquitos, Requena, San Jos\u00e9 de Amazonas and Yurimaguas.\nList of governors.\nSince 2023, the regional governor of Loreto is .\nSubdivisions.\n&lt;mapframe width=370 height=415 zoom=6 latitude=-4.587376 longitude=-73.900 text= \"Interactive map of the provinces: \" align=right&gt;\n&lt;/mapframe&gt;\nThe region is divided into eight provinces (, singular: ), which are composed of 53 districts (\"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\"). The provinces, with their capitals in parentheses, are:\nDemographics.\nLoreto is home to many Amazonian indigenous peoples such as the Amhuacas and the Urarina. As of the 2017 Peru Census, 82% of the population identifies as Mestizo, 11.4% identify as other (mostly Amazonian tribes), 2.9% identify as Afro-Peruvian, 2% identify as White, and 1.5% identify as Quechua.\nLanguages.\nAccording to the 2007 Peru Census, the mother tongue of most of the residents was Spanish (92.51%). The following table shows the mother tongue of the people of the Loreto Region by province:\nEthnicities\nCulture.\nGastronomy.\nThe typical dishes in Loreto are very similar to those of other places in the Amazon region. \"Motelo\" or turtle meat soup and \"juanes\" (rice tamales with chicken or fish) are typical Loretan dishes. Vendors in the local markets offer fried or steamed monkey or lizard meat considered delicious according to the local people.\nOther typical dishes include, \"cecina\" (dried and smoked pork), \"tacacho\" (coal cooked bananas, pork, and chopped onions), \"chonta\" salad, \"palometa\" (fish soup), carachama (fish) and \"paiche\" (a large fish). Among desserts there is a refreshing \"aguaje\" ice cream.\nTo drink, they serve \"masato\" (a beer made of cassava) or natural fruit juices such as aguaje, \"maracuy\u00e1\" (passion fruit), and \"cocona\" (\"Solanum sessiliflorum\")."}
{"id": "714940", "revid": "33959159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714940", "title": "Alfred Weber", "text": "Carl David Alfred Weber (; 30 July 1868 \u2013 2 May 1958) was a German economist, geographer, sociologist, philosopher, and theoretician of culture whose work was influential in the development of modern economic geography. \nHis other work focused on the sociology of knowledge and the role of intellectuals in society. In particular, he introduced the concept of free-floating intelligentsia (\"Freischwebende Intelligenz\"). \nHe was the brother of influential sociologist Max Weber. \nLife.\nAlfred Weber, younger brother of the well-known sociologist Max Weber, was born in Erfurt and raised in Charlottenburg. From 1907 to 1933, he was a professor at Heidelberg University. Weber started his career as a lawyer and worked as a sociologist and cultural philosopher.\nWork.\nWeber supported reintroducing theory and causal models to the field of economics, in addition to using historical analysis. In this field, his achievements involve work on early models of industrial location. He lived during the period when sociology became a separate field of science.\nThough his theory on 'Industrial Location' was strictly economic during his time it is widely studied in the field of geography now, mostly as a theoretical concept in the subdomain of economic geography.\nWeber maintained a commitment to philosophy of history. He contributed theories for analyzing social change in Western civilization as a confluence of civilization (intellectual and technological), social processes (organizations) and culture (art, religion, and philosophy).\nLeast cost theory.\nLeaning heavily on work developed by the relatively unknown Wilhelm Launhardt, Alfred Weber formulated a least cost theory of industrial location which tries to explain and predict the locational pattern of industry at a macro scale. It emphasizes that firms seek a site with minimum costs for transport and labor.\nMaterial index.\nThe point of optimal transportation is based on the costs of distance to the \"material index (MI)\" \u2013 the ratio of weights of the intermediate products (raw materials or RM) to finished product or FP.\na)\u00a0 RM is more than FP; \u00a0 MI&gt;1\nb)\u00a0 RM is equal to FP;\u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0MI=1\nc)\u00a0 RM is less than FP;\u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 MI&lt;1\nIn one scenario (a), the weight of the final product is less than the weight of the raw material going into making the product\u2014the \"weight losing industry\". For example, in the copper industry, it would be very expensive to haul raw materials to the market and process them there, so the processing occurs near the raw materials. (Besides mining, other primary activities (or extractive industries) are considered material oriented: timber mills, furniture manufacture, most agricultural activities, etc.. Often located in rural areas, these businesses may employ most of the local population. As they leave, the local area loses its economic base.)\nIn other cases, the final product is equally as heavy as the raw materials that require transport (i.e. the Material Index is equal to 1). Usually this is a case of some ubiquitous raw material, such as water, being incorporated into the product. This is called the weight-gaining industry. This type of industry might build up near a market or near a raw material source, and as a result might be called a foot-loose industry. Cotton industry is a prominent example of weight-gaining raw material.\nIn a third set of industries, including the heavy chemical industry, the weight of raw materials is less than the weight of the finished product. These industries always grow up near market.\nWeber's point of optimal transportation is a generalization of the Fermat point problem. In its simplest form, the Fermat problem consists in locating a point D with respect to three points A, B, and C in such a way that the sum of the distances between D and each of the three other points is minimized. As for the Weber triangle problem, it consists in locating a point D with respect to three points A, B, and C in such a way that the sum of the transportation costs between D and each of the three other points is minimized. In 1971, Luc-Normand Tellier found the first direct (non iterative) numerical solution of the Fermat and Weber triangle problems. Long before Von Th\u00fcnen's contributions, which go back to 1818, the Fermat point problem can be seen as the very beginning of space economy. It was formulated by the famous French mathematician Pierre de Fermat before 1640. As for the Weber triangle problem, which is a generalization of the Fermat triangle problem, it was first formulated by Thomas Simpson in 1750, and popularized by Alfred Weber in 1909.\nIn 1985, in a book entitled \"\u00c9conomie spatiale: rationalit\u00e9 \u00e9conomique de l'espace habit\u00e9\", Tellier formulated an all-new problem called the \"attraction-repulsion problem\", which constitutes a generalization of both the Fermat and Weber problems. In its simplest version, the attraction-repulsion problem consists in locating a point D with respect to three points A1, A2 and R in such a way that the attractive forces exerted by points A1 and A2, and the repulsive force exerted by point R cancel each other out. In the same book, Tellier solved that problem for the first time in the triangle case, and he reinterpreted spatial economics theory, especially, the theory of land rent, in the light of the concepts of attractive and repulsive forces stemming from the attraction-repulsion problem. That problem was later further analyzed by mathematicians like Chen, Hansen, Jaumard and Tuy (1992), and Jalal and Krarup (2003). The attraction-repulsion problem is seen by Ottaviano and Thisse (2005) as a prelude to the New Economic Geography that developed in the 1990s, and earned Paul Krugman a Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 2008.\nExternal links.\n "}
{"id": "714945", "revid": "4388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714945", "title": "Icosahedral group", "text": ""}
{"id": "714947", "revid": "48296011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714947", "title": "Belfast Telegraph", "text": "The Belfast Telegraph is a daily newspaper published in Belfast, Northern Ireland, by Mediahuis Ireland, which also publishes the \"Irish Independent\", the \"Sunday Independent\" and various other newspapers and magazines in Ireland. Its editor is Eoin Brannigan. Reflecting its unionist tradition, the paper has historically been \"favoured by the Protestant population\", while also being read within Catholic nationalist communities in Northern Ireland. It has been owned by Independent News and Media, a Dublin-based media company, since 2000, and is the company's only print title outside of the Republic of Ireland.\nHistory.\nIt was first published as the Belfast Evening Telegraph on 1 September 1870 by brothers William and George Baird. Its first edition cost half a penny and ran to four pages covering the Franco-Prussian War and local news.\nThe evening edition of the newspaper was originally called the \"Sixth Late\", and \"Sixth Late Tele\" was a familiar cry made by vendors in Belfast city centre in the past. Local editions were published for distribution to Enniskillen, Dundalk, Newry, and Derry.\nIts competitors are \"The News Letter\" and \"The Irish News\", and local editions of London-based red tops also compete in this market, in some cases selling at a cheaper price than the \"Tele\".\nSometimes described as having \"unionist leanings\", and operating an editorial policy supportive of \"moderate unionism\", the \"Belfast Telegraph\" was bought by the Dublin-based Independent News &amp; Media group in March 2000.\nThe \"Belfast Telegraph\" was entirely broadsheet until 19 February 2005, when the Saturday morning edition was introduced and all Saturday editions were converted to compact. The weekday morning compact edition was launched on 22 March 2005.\nIn 2015, the \"Telegraph\" launched the magazine supplement \"Family Life\".\nThe paper now publishes two editions daily, \"Belfast Telegraph\" final edition and the \"North West Telegraph\" which is distributed in Derry.\nIts editor, since April 2020, is Eoin Brannigan.\nAwards.\nThe \"Belfast Telegraph\" was named as Best UK Regional Newspaper of the Year 2012 by the Society of Editors Regional Press Awards.\nCirculation.\nReflecting a decline in newspaper sales generally, circulation of the \"Belfast Telegraph\" has declined as of the early 21st century, from 109,571 for the period July to December 2002, to 31,340 for the same period in 2019."}
{"id": "714948", "revid": "36623386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714948", "title": "Department of Madre de Dios", "text": "Madre de Dios (, ) is a department of Peru. Located in the country's southeast, it borders Brazil, Bolivia and the Peruvian departments of Puno, Cusco and Ucayali, in the Amazon Basin. It is also the third largest department in Peru, after Ucayali and Loreto. However, it is also the least densely populated department in Peru, as well as its least populous department. It has one of the lowest poverty rates in Peru. It is administered by a regional government. Its capital is the city of Puerto Maldonado. \nEtymology.\nThe name of the department is derived from the Madre de Dios River, ultimately a tributary of the Amazon, and named by ethnic Spanish colonists. It is a very common Spanish language designation for the Virgin Mary, literally meaning Mother of God.\nGeography.\nThe department is almost entirely low-lying Amazon rainforest. The climate is warm and damp, with average temperatures around [max.: , min.: ]. The rainy season is from December to March, when torrential rainfall causes rivers to swell and often overflow their banks. Annual precipitation can be as much as .\nThe north-western boundary with the Cusco Region is known as the Isthmus of Fitzcarrald, a series of small and low mountains that separate the Madre de Dios River and the Urubamba/Ucayali River basins.\nNotable rivers in the Madre de Dios River watershed are the Inambari, Tambopata, Manu, Tahuamanu, Las Piedras (also known as Tacuatimanu River), Heath, Acre and Los Amigos.\nDue to the vast size of the area and its low population density, rivers provide the best way of getting from one town to another. Human activity is invariably confined to riverbanks. A number of explorers have searched for the lost city of \"Paititi\" in the jungle within the region. A new road that opened in early 2011 through the area will connect Brazil and Peru for trade, and change the isolation of this area.\nThe only important highway is between the Peruvian cities of Puerto Maldonado and Cusco, away in the Cuzco Department. It is part of the newly built Interoceanic Road between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, passing by the border town I\u00f1apari on the Acre river. Flights between Cusco and Puerto Maldonado remain the most common and quicker method of transport between the two.\nFrom Puerto Maldonado a road about long leads to the mining town Laberinto (\"Labyrinth\"). A second road is between the village of Pillcopata and Itahuania (into the Man\u00fa National Park). It is a roughly -long single-track road that is hard to travel in the rainy season. It also has a dirt road to the native community of Infierno (\"Hell\"), where the Ese'ejas (or Guarayos) live. Their chief is Agust\u00edn Shapaja, who led the famous expedition (made into a TV special) to the Candamo. He was featured in the TV documentary \"El Candamo, la Ultima Tierra sin Hombres\" (The Candamo, The Last Land without Men).\nEconomy.\nMadre de Dios depends heavily on natural products and raw materials for its economy. There is virtually no manufacturing industry. The main agricultural products are:\nIllegal gold mining is the only other large industry of the region, confined mainly to alluvium adjacent to the Inambari and Madre de Dios rivers. Significant deforestation has resulted due to this activity. In addition, techniques for gold mining have been described as resulting in both a major environmental and public health problem. Most gold miners use liquid mercury to extract gold particles from the alluvium. They often handle the toxic liquid mercury with their bare hands. To purify the gold particles, the mercury is burned off. After being vaporized, mercury particles contaminate the surrounding ecosystems. Mercury bioaccumulates throughout the food chain to become concentrated in top predators, such as large river fish and carnivorous birds. The local people may be harmed by direct contact with the element, as well as by ingesting dangerous levels of mercury when they eat the fish. Mercury results in a variety of neurological and congenital health problems.\nEcotourism is a major emerging industry in Madre de Dios. A number of lodges in Manu and Tambopata are becoming part of what is described as the Vilcabamba-Ambor\u00f3 Corridor. Some of these EcoLodges offer adventure activities as well. New legislation encourages private investors to create concessions for conservation or ecotourism. This is to extend the reaches of the public protected areas. This integration includes native communities, which are increasingly involved in ecotourism. The importance of including the local population relies on the long-term incentives for leaving standing forest. The local population is integrated into conservation initiatives as well as economic cycles.\nPolitical divisions.\nThe region is divided into three provinces (provincias, singular: provincia), which are composed of 11 districts (distritos, singular: distrito). The provinces, with their capitals in parentheses, are:\nDemographics.\nLanguages.\nAccording to the national 2007 Peru Census, the language learnt first by most of the residents of the region was Spanish (80.00%), followed by Quechua (16.53%). The Quechua varieties spoken in Madre de Dios are Cusco\u2013Collao Quechua and Santarrosino Kichwa. The following table shows the breakdown by province of first languages:\nCulture.\nThe region is the location of many ancient Inca ruins. Several indigenous tribes survive in the jungle of the Amazon Basin. "}
{"id": "714949", "revid": "15708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714949", "title": "Mozibake", "text": ""}
{"id": "714950", "revid": "1754504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714950", "title": "Luan Ma", "text": ""}
{"id": "714952", "revid": "1754504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714952", "title": "Luan ma", "text": ""}
{"id": "714956", "revid": "45179772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714956", "title": "Minar-e-Pakistan", "text": "Minar-e-Pakistan (; ) is a national monument located in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. The tower stands in the Greater Iqbal Park, an urban park in Lahore. The tower was built during 1960\u20131968 on the site where on 23 March 1940, the All-India Muslim League passed the Lahore Resolution which was later called the Pakistan Resolution \u2013 the first official call for a separate and independent homeland for the Muslims of British India, as espoused by the two-nation theory. The resolution eventually helped lead to the creation of Pakistan in 1947.\nConstruction.\nOn 23 March 1960, the foundation stone of the tower was laid by Akhter Husain, the then\u2013governor of West Pakistan. The construction of the tower took eight years, and was completed on 22 March 1968 at an estimated cost of seven million Pakistani rupees. The money was collected by imposing an additional tax on cinema and horse racing tickets at the demand of the governor.\nMian Abdul Khaliq was assigned as the main contractor for the project. Mukhtar Masood, a well-known writer and the then\u2013deputy commissioner of Lahore, was one of the members who undertook important role for the completion of the project.\nDesign.\nThe tower reflects a blend of Mughal, Islamic and modern architecture. The tower was designed and supervised by, Nasreddin Murat-Khan, a Russian-born Pakistani architect and civil engineer. \nThe tower stands on a five-pointed star-shaped platform that is enclosed by two crescent-shaped pools facing each other. One crescent pool is lined with red marble, the other is lined with green marble. The lower portion of the tower itself is shaped into a flower. The area surrounding the monument is covered with flowers.\nStructure.\nConstruction material of the tower is chiefly of reinforced concrete alongwith work of marble and stones on the floors, walls and upstairs. The small dome on the top is made of steel with a pinnacle. The base of the tower rises from the ground while the tower stands at a height of on the base. This makes the total height of the tower around above the ground. The ten unfolding petals of the flower-like base are high. The circular diameter of the tower is about . The rostrum is built of patterned tiles, and faces the Mughal-era Badshahi Mosque. The base consists of four platforms that are made of different types of marble and stones. To symbolise the humble beginning of the struggle for freedom, the first platform is built with uncut stones from Taxila, the second platform is made of hammer-dressed stones, and the third platform is made of chiselled stones. The polished white marble used in the fourth and final platform of the base depicts the success of the Pakistan Movement. The structure uses the imagery of crescents, stars and signs that symbolise the culture of Pakistan, similarly seen in the national flag of the country.\nInscriptions.\nAt the base, there are floral inscriptions on ten converging white marble commemorative plaques. The inscriptions include the text of the Lahore Resolution in Urdu, Bengali and English, as well as the Delhi Resolution's text, which was passed on 9 April 1946. On different plaques, Quranic verses and 99 names of Allah are inscribed in the Arabic calligraphy. Other important inscriptions included on the monument are the national anthem of the country in Urdu and Bengali, excerpts from the speeches of Muhammad Ali Jinnah in Urdu, Bengali and English; and a few couplets written by Muhammad Iqbal.\nSignificance.\nMinar-e-Pakistan is considered the national emblem of Pakistan, and an expression of post-colonial national identity.\nNotable visits and events.\nOn 21 February 1999, the then Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee became the first Indian leader to visit Minar-e-Pakistan (previous Indian state visits to Pakistan had not included a visit to Lahore). Vajpayee's visit was compared to Nixon's visit to China in terms of significance.\nOn 9 September 2012, the erstwhile Indian Minister for External Affairs S. M. Krishna with Indian High Commissioner Sharat Sabharwal, also made a visit to the monument. Krishna wrote his remarks in visitors album of the monument.\nThe location is often used for political and religious events. It is also known as the \"Liberty Tower of Pakistan\". The monument has served as the location for a number of rallies. The rallies have often caused damage to the surrounding flora, according to the Parks and Horticulture Authority. In 2014, the Government of Punjab considered banning any large political or non-political gatherings. In the past, the tower was used to provide a panoramic view to visitors who could access the top by climbing up the spiral stairs or using an elevator. However, this facility was later withdrawn due to a few suicide incidents."}
{"id": "714958", "revid": "38567265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714958", "title": "Department of Moquegua", "text": "Moquegua (; ; ) is a department of Peru. It is located in the country's south, extending from the coast to its highlands. It is administered by a regional government. Its capital is the city of Moquegua, which is among the main Peruvian cities for its high rates of GDP and national education.\nGeography.\nThe department's volcanoes and its geomorphology make its geography remarkable. It is formed by upstream portion of the Tambo River, one of the most torrential coastal rivers, which forms deep valleys that can be divided into three sectors, the first one being in the northwest, forming the Puquina-La Capilla sector. These are veritable oasis enclaved in the rocks; arid hillsides and some terraces where horticulture is possible. High quality alfalfa as well as fruits, especially grapes, are produced here, due to a good climate and a rich soil. The second sector is the valley of Omate, one of the most populated and fertile soils of the department. The Ubinas Volcano, Peru's most active volcano, is located nearby. In the hillsides, the land is fertile in contrast with the desolation and sterility of its highlands. In the southern part of the Tambo River is located the town of Carumas, which along with Puquina and Omate, are the vital centers of this geography. The Moquegua River is a short run one and is formed by its tributaries: the Torata, Huaracane and Tumilaca rivers. After passing through the regional capital, it digs deep into a canyon called the Osmare.\nBoundaries.\nThe Department of Moquegua is bordered by the Arequipa Region in the north, the Puno Region in the east, the Tacna Region in the south and the Pacific Ocean in the west.\nPolitical division.\nThe region is divided into three provinces (, singular: ), which are composed of 20 districts (\"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\"). The provinces, with their capitals in parentheses, are:\nDemographics.\nPopulation.\nAccording to the 1993 census, the Moquegua Region has a population of 128,747 inhabitants, 51.9% of which (66,843) are male and 48.1% (61,904) are female.\n, the Instituto Nacional de Estad\u00edstica e Inform\u00e1tica estimates the region's population to be 156,750.\nLanguages.\nAccording to the last census in Peru in 2007, the languages learnt first by the residents were Spanish (79.37%), Aymara (10.71%), Quechua (9.57%) and Ash\u00e1ninka (0.04%). Other indigenous languages were learnt first by 0.19% and foreign languages by 0.04%. The Quechua variety spoken in Moquegua is Cusco\u2013Collao Quechua. The following table shows the results concerning the language learnt first in the Moquegua Region by province:\nImmigration.\nPersons originating from other regions of the country make up 37.8% of the population and 0.2% of residents were born abroad.\nThe largest immigrant groups come from the Puno Region (14.7% of the total population) and the Arequipa Region (9.9%).\nAge.\nThe population age distribution is 43.3% under the age of 20, 9.9% from 20 to 24, 28.6% from 25 to 44, 13.4% from 45 to 64, and 4.8% who are 65 years of age or older.\nEducation.\nSecondary education has been attended by 33.3% of the population and 5.5% also have graduated from non-university higher education, while 4.3% have complete university studies. 37.9% only have attended primary education and 7.1% have not had any education.\nThe illiteracy rate in the region is 10%.\nHistory.\nInca oral tradition as documented by the Spanish chroniclers has long held that the present-day Moquegua Region was inhabited by small groups of natives known as \"pukinas\" and \"qullas\" long before the arrival of the Incas. According to chronicler Garcilaso de la Vega, it was Inca Mayta C\u00e1pac who organized the military expedition to expand the domains of the Cusco monarchs along this part of the coast.\nSince these were fertile lands, capable of supporting a larger population, the Inca army officers in charge decided to establish the towns of Cuchuna and Moquegua. In doing so, they were also protecting the Inca domain over the conquered lands.\nArchaeological research conducted over the past several decades has shed considerable light on the ancient history of Moquegua, giving this remote section of Peru a unique place in the history of Peru. Archaeological surveys and excavations, documented in myriad professional publications, as well as books for the public available at Moquegua's Museo Contisuyo, demonstrate a sequence of occupation stretching from more than 10,000 B.C. through the present day.\nThere is no accurate data on the Spanish conquest or the founding of the city of Moquegua by its army. Presumably, it was founded on 25 November 1541 by Pedro Cansino and his wife, Josefa de Bilbao.\nDuring the War of the Pacific, Moquegua suffered the invasion of Chilean troops. They looted all buildings \u2014including churches\u2014 tortured women, and took people's jewelry.\nTourism.\nIn the city.\nThe attractions in the city of Moquegua are Main Square which features a fountain made and built in France by the Engineer Gustave Eifel, Santo Domingo Church contains the image of Santa Fortuna, a martyr, from the first centuries of Christianity who is worshipped by the faithful. The Jose Carlos Mariategui Museum is located in the main square and it presents the life and works of who is widely considered one of the most influential intellectuals of the 20th Century in Latin America. Contisuyo Museum is also located in the city of Moquegua. The museum exhibits a variety of archaeological remains of the Uros and Puquina cultures as well as an explanation of the time period in which different cultures settle in this region.\nOther attractions in the city are casa del regidor perpetuo de la ciudad and casa de Alayza, which are houses built with architecture of the eighteenth century.\nOutside the city.\nAttractions outside the city are Samegua which has the best typical food restaurants for tourists. Samegua also produces good quality avocados which are the reason why it's called the avocado territory. Another attraction located from Moquegua is Torata that is a district that offers the visitor a picturesque environment in which the visitor can admire the traditional ridged roof houses, the Torata Church, the stone windmills from the viceroyal period, and Sabaya and Camata an Inca administrative center known as the Machu Picchu of Moquegua. In addition at about northeast of Moquegua is found Mount Baul a geological formation which appear to have been cut perpendicular in the top area and it also bears a resemblance to the type of chest of trunk that was utilized all over Peru in the old days.\nAnother attraction outside of the city is Ilo located from Moquegua. Ilo is one of the most tourist visited places in Moquegua. The main places to visit in this town are: Punta Coles, Los Olivares, and El Puerto, La Glorieta Jose Galvez, San Geronino church and beautiful beaches like Roca del Rio.\nAlso at about northwest of Moquegua is Omate, town known as Villa de Omate that produces pisco and wine. The town is also considered to be one of the most important producing centers in Peru. The attractions in Omate are The Viceroyal Church, the Quinistacas Sanctuary, the Utucam Thermal baths, and the Tambo river. Other places of interest in the Outskirts of Moquegua are Puente Bello, Putina, Ichuna and Tolapalca thermal baths.\nFestivities.\nIn Moquegua there are two main Festivities that attract tourist; one of them is Santo Domingo Fortunata Festival. This festival is held on 14 October; it is an important religious festival in which the faithful from not only Moquegua but different places in Peru traveled to this town to join the Procession of the Image of the virgin and martyr St. Fortunata. Activities such as fairs, cultural and recreational events occur in this festival too.\nThe other main festival for the region of Moquegua is Moquegua Tourism Week. This festival starts in November and it holds competitions of typical dishes and beverages, a show with typical dances, and fairs.\nGastronomy.\nThe Region of Moquegua offers a variety of typical food to his visitors. Some of the typical dishes offered are patasca moqueguana or Caldo de Mondogo, which is a soup made with cow innards, corn, and mint and Picante de Cuy that is Guinea pig stew cooked in a peanut and hot pepper sauce. Other typical dishes are Chupe de Camarones that is a shrimp soup made with eggs, milk, and oregano. There is also the well known, Cebiche de Jurel or Mixto, Parihuela, Chupin de Pejesapo, Sudado de machas, Aguadito de Mariscos, Chicharron de Pulpo, Picante de Mariscos, and Cuy Frito.\nThe most typical desserts in the Moquegua region are majarblanco which is a sweetened, condensed milk cooked down and used as a spread, alfar de penco which is a soft cookie, corn cake, guargueros, and oquendos. The most traditional drinks are macerado de damasco which is a peach liqueur made with Pisco, leche de monja, a liqueur that is made with a cordial, eggs, and lemon. Other traditional drinks are Chimbango de tres higos a liqueur combined of red, black, and green figs. In addition wine, pisco, licorice, cognac, and other pisco based fruit liqueurs are traditional drinks of this region.\nTransportation and Tourist Information.\nModes of transportation to Moquegua Region are by air or overland transport. The Moquegua Region has two airports: Hernan Turque Podesta Airport in Moquegua city and Ilo Airport located in Ilo. Overland transportation in Moquegua city is by bus, and in Ilo there is a bus station called Pampa Inalambrica."}
{"id": "714959", "revid": "3492060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714959", "title": "Mikhaylovsky District", "text": "Mikhaylovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The name is generally derived from or is related to the male first name Mikhail."}
{"id": "714963", "revid": "48643156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714963", "title": "Sooke", "text": "Sooke () is a district municipality on the southern tip of Vancouver Island, Canada, by road from Victoria, the capital of British Columbia. Sooke, the westernmost of Greater Victoria's Western Communities, is to the north and west of the Sooke Basin. It is a regional centre for residents in neighbouring communities, including Otter Point, Shirley and Jordan River.\nGeography.\nClimate.\nSooke has a Mediterranean climate, with warm summers and mild winters, defined by the K\u00f6ppen climate classification as \"Csb\". Although its precipitation is more like dry summer climates, its temperatures resemble oceanic climates as found in Ireland, for example.\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Sooke had a population of 15,086 living in 6,129 of its 6,431 total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of 13,001. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nReligion.\nAccording to the 2021 census, religious groups in Sooke included:\nGovernance.\nThe District of Sooke was incorporated as a municipality on December 7, 1999. It is one of 13 municipalities within the Capital Regional District and is located in the traditional territories of the T'Sou-ke and Scia'new First Nations.\nMunicipal.\nSooke is governed by a mayor and six councillors, who are elected every four years. The current council was elected on October 15, 2022.\nDana Lajeunesse, who had served on council since replacing the late Brenda Parkinson following a September, 2019 by-election, was elected to the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in the 2024 British Columbia general election. His successor on Sooke council, Herb Haldane, was elected in a by-election on July 12, 2025.\nFederal.\nFederally the District is in the riding of Esquimalt-Saanich-Sooke, represented by Stephanie McLean (Liberal) since April 28, 2025.\nProvincial.\nSooke was part of the riding of Langford-Juan de Fuca, represented by the BC NDP's Ravi Parmar. He succeeded John Horgan, the former Premier of British Columbia (2017\u20132022) who first won the seat in 2009 and retired from politics for health reasons in 2023.\nIn April 2023, the BC Electoral Boundaries Commission created the new riding of Juan de Fuca-Malahat. It encompasses 44,980 people in Sooke, Port Renfrew, Jordan River, Otter Point, East Sooke, Metchosin, Malahat, Mill Bay and Shawnigan Lake. Its first elected representative, Dana Lajeunesse, won election in a tight race in October, 2024 following a recount.\nTourism and recreation.\nWell-known destinations in Sooke include Whiffin Spit Park, the Sooke Potholes Regional Park and adjacent Sooke Potholes Provincial Park.\nSooke is home to the Sooke Region Museum.\nThe area is the base for visiting the wilderness parks of Vancouver Island's southwest coast \u2014 the West Coast Trail and the Juan de Fuca Provincial Park, which includes the Juan de Fuca Marine Trail. Beaches near Sooke include Sandcut, French Beach, Fishboat Bay, China Beach, and Mystic Beach.\nThe Galloping Goose Regional Trail, part of the Trans-Canada Trail, runs through Sooke as far as Leechtown, the former site of a gold-rush town circa 1865. Once a rail line, the Goose is now a popular pedestrian and cycling route connecting Sooke to Victoria.\nArts and culture.\nThe Sooke Fall Fair was first held in 1913 and continues on Labour Day weekends annually at the Sooke Community Hall.\nReal estate.\nIn April 2022, an average single-family home in Sooke costs $887,500 based on the home price index, drawing from data from the Victoria Real Estate Board (VREB). By June 2022, that number (directly from VREB) increased to $938,000. The average home value as of July 1, 2022 as determined by BC Assessment was $831,000.\nEducation.\nSooke is a part of the School District 62 Sooke. There is one high school, Edward Milne Community School, and one junior high school, Journey Middle School. The four elementary schools in the area are John Muir (in the town's west end), Sooke Elementary (town centre), the French immersion Ecole Poirier (town centre), and Saseenos Elementary (east end). In 2018, SD62 announced it had purchased land to build the future Sunriver Elementary in the Sunriver neighbourhood. Continuing adult education programs are offered by the Edward Milne Community School (EMCS) Society, which also operates with day, evening and weekend programs. The closest post-secondary institutions are Royal Roads University and Camosun College's Interurban campus. The non-profit Sooke Region Lifelong Learning offers a diverse set of educational programs and workshops both virtually and at the Sooke library."}
{"id": "714965", "revid": "45364314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714965", "title": "Lilith Clay", "text": "Lilith Clay, also known as Omen, is a superheroine appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by Robert Kanigher and Nick Cardy, Lilith made her first appearance in \"Teen Titans\" #25 (February 1970) and commonly appears as a member of the eponymous group. She is depicted as the best friend of Donna Troy (the first Wonder Girl) and the second hero to join the original Teen Titans after its founders, following Roy Harper (the first Speedy). Although her origin and powers have varied significantly throughout her history, she is consistently seen as both precognitive and psychic.\nFictional character biography.\nPre-\"Crisis\".\nLilith Clay is a metahuman who manifested psychic superpowers at the age of 13. After reading her parents' minds, Lilith learns that she is adopted and leaves home to find her birth parents. Lilith joins the Teen Titans, but later leaves the team and becomes a founding member of Titans West.\nPrior to the disbanding of the original Teen Titans and Titans West, Lilith has a vision of her teammate Donna Troy (Wonder Girl) marrying a red-headed man, who is murdered along with their child. At the time, Donna is dating her teammate (and red head) Roy Harper. Fearing Lilith's prophecy, Donna breaks up with Roy.\nLilith later manifests pyrokinesis, which alerts her birth mother, Thia, of her daughter's location. Thia kidnaps Lilith and reveals that Lilith is one of many children who she sired to do her bidding. Lilith helps the Titans defeat Thia and stays on Mount Olympus, where she is recognized as a demigod.\nPost-Crisis.\nIn Dan Jurgens' \"Teen Titans\" series (1996), Lilith operates under the codename Omen and works for Loren Jupiter, the sponsor of the Teen Titans. Omen is unmasked as Lilith after being captured by the supervillain Haze and is revealed to be the illegitimate daughter of Loren Jupiter and the half-sister of Haze. As Omen, Lilith possesses telekinesis and the ability to create illusions.\nDuring the storyline \"Titans/Young Justice: Graduation Day\", the Teen Titans attacked by an android from the future called Indigo who accidentally activates a Superman android believed to be long destroyed. The rampaging Superman android kills Lilith and Donna Troy, causing the Titans to disband.\nIn the \"Blackest Night\" event, Lilith is resurrected as a member of the Black Lantern Corps and attacks the Titans. However, her body is destroyed by a burst of white light emanating from Dawn Granger.\nThe New 52.\nA new incarnation of Omen appears in the series \"The Culling\" as an agent of the villainous organization N.O.W.H.E.R.E. Omen possesses the ability to create illusions and control the minds of others. This makes her a valuable member of N.O.W.H.E.R.E., as she enforces Harvest's will amongst his henchmen and prisoners, conditioning and preparing them for the Culling.\nThe original Lilith Clay is reintroduced in \"DC Rebirth\" as a drug counselor who has been secretly keeping tabs on Roy Harper, Donna Troy, Dick Grayson, Mal Duncan, Karen Beecher, Hank Hall, and Gnarrk. It is revealed that Lilith and those she has been watching were founding members of the Teen Titans until they fell victim to the villain Mister Twister, who ensnarled them in an occult ritual that threatened the world. To stop the ritual, Lilith erased all memories the Titans had of their existence and of each other. When Mister Twister resurfaced and restored their memories, Lilith began attempting to gather the Titans together to stop their enemy once and for all.\nIn \"Dawn of DC\", Lilith and Power Girl establish a psychic counseling service where Power Girl enters the minds of others and physically defeats their problems.\nPowers and abilities.\nLilith Clay possesses various psychic abilities, including telepathy, precognition, and energy projection. Furthermore, she can teleport and generate illusions and fire. \nIn the 2024 \"Power Girl\" series, she uses her psychic powers to conjure giant telekinetic fists and flying disks, similar to a Green Lantern power ring."}
{"id": "714968", "revid": "24043204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714968", "title": "Vicugna vicugna", "text": ""}
{"id": "714969", "revid": "38567265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714969", "title": "Department of Pasco", "text": "Pasco (; ) is a department of Peru. It is located in the country's central highlands. It is administered by a regional government. Its capital is Cerro de Pasco.\nPolitical division.\nThe region is divided into 3 provinces (, singular: ), which are composed of 28 districts (\"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\").\nProvinces.\nThe provinces, with their capitals in parentheses, are:"}
{"id": "714971", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714971", "title": "Bombay Electricity Supply Transport", "text": ""}
{"id": "714974", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714974", "title": "Spiroch\u00e6tes", "text": ""}
{"id": "714975", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714975", "title": "Boyfriends of Friends", "text": ""}
{"id": "714977", "revid": "1285555542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714977", "title": "Jarlsberg", "text": "Jarlsberg was a former countship that forms a part of today's Vestfold county in Norway. The name translates as \"Earl's Hill\".\nThe former countships of Jarlsberg and Larvik were merged into a county in 1821. Jarlsberg and Larvik's County (\"Jarlsberg og Larviks amt\") were renamed Vestfold in 1919.\nCreated in 1673 as Griffenfeldt Countship (\"Griffenfeld grevskap\"), it was after a few years known as T\u00f8nsberg Countship (\"T\u00f8nsberg grevskap\") until 1684, when the name became Jarlsberg. Dating to 1681, the countship was associated with members of the Dano-Norwegian noble family, Wedel-Jarlsberg. The countship was abolished in 1893 in accordance with Norway's nobility law, but the manor is still in its own family.\nHouse of Griffenfeld.\nJarlsberg was originally created as a countship in 1673 for Peder Schumacher Griffenfeld, a Danish statesman and Chancellor of Denmark during the reign of King Christian V of Denmark. Schumacher received in 1671 an armorial grant with the name Griffenfeld. The creation involved that Count Griffenfeld, in addition to owning 14 percent of the countship's land, received large tax revenues and also the right to appoint all civil and ecclesiastical officials, including officers and judges, who would serve within the countship. \nHouse of Gyldenl\u00f8ve.\nAfter Griffenfeld's arrest in 1676, in the aftermath of the Scanian War, his properties and the countship was renamed T\u00f8nsberg Countship and were transferred by King Christian V to Ulrik Fredrik Gyldenl\u00f8ve, the Count of Larvik. Gyldenl\u00f8ve, an illegitimate son of King Frederick III of Denmark, was the Viceroy (\"Statholder\") of Norway. \nHouse of Wedel Jarlsberg.\nIn 1683, Ulrik Fredrik Gyldenl\u00f8ve sold T\u00f8snberg countship to Gustav Frederik Wilhelm Wedel. Von Wedel was an ancient nobility from Holstein, which received naturalization patent in 1681 as Friherre von Wedel by king Christian V. Field Marshal Wedel, who had become commanding General in Norway in 1681, received the title Lensgreve patent with the name \"Wedel af Jarlsberg\" in 1684 and introduced the name Jarlsberg, which translates as \"Earl's Hill\"."}
{"id": "714981", "revid": "22841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714981", "title": "SRV records", "text": ""}
{"id": "714987", "revid": "38567265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714987", "title": "Department of Piura", "text": "Piura () is a department of Peru. Located on the country's northwestern coast, it is known for its tropical and dry beaches. It is the most populous department and region in Peru, its twelfth smallest department, and its fourth-most densely populated department, after Tumbes, La Libertad, and Lambayeque. It is administered by regional government. Its capital is Piura and its largest port cities, Paita and Talara, are also among the most important in Peru.\nHistory.\nThe country's latest decentralization program is in hiatus after the proposal to merge departments was defeated in the national referendum in October 2005. The referendum held on October 30, 2005, as part of the ongoing decentralization process in Peru, to decide whether the region would merge with the current regions of Lambayeque and Tumbes to create a new \"Regi\u00f3n Norte\" was defeated.\nGeography.\nThe Piura Region is bordered to the north by the Tumbes Region and Ecuador, to the east by Cajamarca Region, to the south by the Lambayeque Region, and to the west by the Pacific Ocean. \"Punta Pari\u00f1as\" in Piura is South America's most western point.\nThe territory of the Piura Region has many climate variations due to its geographical location. It is just 4 degrees south of the equator, yet receives two ocean currents at the same time: the cold Humboldt Current () and the warm El Ni\u00f1o Current (). This makes the Piura Region a land that is both tropical and arid at the same time, \"The Land where the Tropics meets The Desert\"\nThe coast is divided by the Peruvian \"subtropical desert\" of Sechura on the south and savanna-like scrub Tumbes\u2013Piura dry forests to the center and north of the region. There are also small valleys of tropical climate, where rice and coconut fields are common, especially around the Piura and Sullana rivers.\nThere is montane forest (\"selva alta\") as one goes away from the coast onto the sierra. P\u00e1ramo climates and cooler temperatures appear higher in the sierra.\nTopography is smooth in the coast and rough in the Sierra. There are many arid plains in the southern region. The Sechura Desert, located south of the Piura River, is Peru's largest desert and one of the world's few examples of a tropical desert; it borders a tropical terrain to the north. The Bay\u00f3var Depression, which is the lowest point in Peru and all of the Southern Tropics, is located in this desert.\nThe morphological forms most common in the coast are the dry ravine that suddenly become copious when there are heavy rains, forming tropical dry forests all over. Other features are half-moon shaped dunes, the marine terraces such as those of M\u00e1ncora, Talara and Lobitos. Valleys have been formed by fluvial terraces of the Chira River and Piura River.\nTo the east, valleys are more or less deep and have been eroded by rivers forming \"equatorial tropical-dry-forests\". The major peak surpasses 3000 m. The Paso de Porculla, in the southwest of the territory is only 2,138 meters high and is the lowest pass of the Peruvian Andes.\nThe rivers crossing its territory belong both to the Pacific watershed and to the Amazon Basin. The Chira River is the most important and flows into the Pacific Ocean. The Piura River also flows into the Pacific Ocean although the flow varies greatly with the changing seasons and during severe droughts will dry up.\nClimate.\nThe climate is subtropical and tropical savanna in the center and north coast, Semi-arid in the southern coast near Lambayeque Region. Piura has a tropical dry or tropical savanna climate monsoon weather that averages throughout the whole year. Pleasant warm winters (June to October) that average between during the daytime and lows around during the night.\nIn 2013 and 2016, Chulucanas and the Lancones District, two places in the Department of Piura, recorded a temperature of . This is the highest temperature to have ever been recorded in Peru.\nPiura is covered by deserts, tropical valleys, dry equatorial forests, tropical montane climates as you reach between 1000 and 1500 meters, and a humid subtropical sierra climate if you reach over 2,000 meters. The P\u00e1ramo climate is found in the higher regions of the Sierra.\nRain is scarce from May to November: it rains only from December to April at discontinuous rates due to the influence of the El Ni\u00f1o Current, but every so often, when the El Ni\u00f1o phenomenon arrives, rain is copious and makes the dry ravines become alive, giving rise not only to the impressive forests but to many floods and great landslides. El Ni\u00f1o occurs when ocean waters reach . When ocean water temperatures elevate 1 or 1.5 degrees Celsius higher than , the consequence could be catastrophic rains.\nAlthough ocean waters can drop to during the dry winter months (May to October), they can also rise to during the humid summer months (December to April); this calls for pleasant rains; yet if the temperatures rise 1 or 1.5\u00a0\u00b0C degrees above that, El Ni\u00f1o is assured.\nDuring the hottest days of summer (December to April), temperatures can reach almost inland. During night time, 30s or even high 20s may seem unpleasant, which urge people to go to beach resorts such as M\u00e1ncora or Col\u00e1n.\nThe rest of the months have pleasant summer temperatures in the low 30s and mid 20s \u00b0C (77\u201390\u00a0\u00b0F).\nNatural resources and wildlife.\nPiura is a land of unique algarrobo trees, a variety of mesquite similar to the carob, and it is the region with the most equatorial tropical dry forests in the whole Pacific.\nThese ecoregions carry a unique variety of orchids, birds, reptiles, plants and mammals. Piura is known for the best and oldest lime-lemons in South America as well as South America's finest mango (tropical dry). With Lambayeque, it is the original home of Pima cotton. Piura also produces bananas, coconuts, rice and other fruits as local income.\nThe \"Manglares de San Pedro de Vice\" in Sechura Province of Piura are the southernmost mangroves on the Pacific coast of South America.\nIts development has been favoured also by the petroleum found in the ocean of Talara Province, fishing is blessed by two ocean currents, silver mines are common and the current Bayovar Deposits are present as well.\nHistory.\nThe most important culture that developed in the Piura region was Vic\u00fas, which stood out for its ceramics and delicate work in gold. The Tallanes or Yungas, however, were the first settlers, who migrated from the Sierra. During a period that is still vague, they lived in \"behetrias\", which were primitive settlements without a head or an organization. Later they were conquered by the Mochicas and, centuries later, by the Incas, during the rule of Tupac Inca Yupanqui.\nIn 1532, Francisco Pizarro founded the first Spanish city in South America on the banks of the Chira River in the Tangarar\u00e1 Valley. He named it San Miguel de Piura. The founding date is still subject of controversy. However, during the 450th anniversary celebrations, July 15 was adopted as the official date.\nIn 1534, due to a lack of sanitary conditions, the capital was moved to Monte de los Padres (Morrop\u00f3n); in 1578, and for the same reason, it was moved again, this time to San Francisco de la Buena Esperanza (Paita). In 1588, the permanent attacks of the English pirates and privateers forced a final relocation of the capital to Piura.\nDuring colonial times, life went by peacefully. Yet, the raids against the Spanish authorities led by Admirals Borran and Cochrane, members of the libertarian expedition of Jos\u00e9 de San Mart\u00edn, woke the longing for liberty in the minds of the local people.\nCulture and customs of Piura.\nPiura is host to a stunning \"mestizo\" culture, since all races mix here.\nLocal \"Piuranos\" have a different accent from their neighbours at both sides since: they tend elongate their syllables in a similar ways to northern Mexicans. \"Piuranos\" have their own proud slang. Locals for example, call themselves \"Churres\" (popular term used for a young Piuran or northern person).\n\"Piuranos\" are characterized by their witty minds, melancolic \"Tondero music\" and welcoming personalities. Like many Peruvians, they enjoy drinking chicha de jora, pisco or beer and many of them have a tendency towards creativity and art as their source of income.\nLocal gastronomical dishes include the Piuran Secho de Chavelo (the capital's dish), Algarrobina cocktails, many types of ceviches and other seafoods like Majarisco and Pasao al Agua. Piura is famed for its natilla sweets as well.\nThe warm climate of this region forbids hard labour from 1:00\u00a0p.m. to 4:00\u00a0p.m., so it is common tradition to take \"siestas\" and better to wake up early to get important stuff done before noon.\nProcessions and religious folk are passionately practiced by some of the locals. One of them is Cristo de Ayabaca.\nPopular crafts are the Chulucana Pottery and handy hats and silversmith arts made from the Catacaos Province.\nNorthern cowboys can still be seen today wandering the deserts of Sechura, Catacaos and the forests of Morropon transporting their goods using donkeys and mules. They seem to resemble physically the \"American Southwest\" cowboys, or Argentinian gauchos and Mexican charros. They are noted not only for their abilities to sing and play \"Cumanana and Tondero\" but as silversmiths that work the filigree earrings, leathers, hats, wooden and silver utensils of Catacaos region.\nMusic.\nThe Tondero and Cumanana are the traditional music of the Piura Region.\nChicha music, now called Tecnocumbia (originally a Peruvian styled cumbia with electronic elements), is the modern version of popular music all over, as well as \"Salsa\" among youngsters.\nAnother great tradition that is sung by all northern Peruvians is the famous \"Peruvian Waltz\", well practiced by traditional musicians (northern Peruvians have their style).\nPolitical division.\nThe region is divided into 8 provinces (, singular: ), which are composed of 64 districts (\"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\"). The provinces, with their capitals in parentheses, are:\nPopulated places.\nPopulated places include:"}
{"id": "714988", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714988", "title": "Simeon D. Fess", "text": "Simeon Davison Fess (December 11, 1861 \u2013 December 23, 1936) was a Republican politician and educator from Ohio, United States. He served in the United States House of Representatives (1915 to 1923) and U.S. Senate (1923 to 1935).\nEarly life.\nBorn on a farm near Harrod, Ohio, to Henry and Barbara (Herring) Fess, he was educated in country schools and graduated at Ohio Northern University (ONU) of Ada in 1889 and married Eva C. Thomas the following year. After graduation, he taught history and law at the university as well was working in the university administration from 1889 to 1896. Fess graduated from the law department at ONU in 1894 and served as dean of that department from 1896 to 1900. He then served as vice president of the university from 1900 to 1902. He left for Illinois to become a graduate student and lecturer at the University of Chicago from 1902 to 1907. He then returned to Ohio and served as the president of Antioch College of Yellow Springs from 1907 to 1917.\nPolitics.\nIn 1912, while still serving at Antioch College, Fess was a delegate to the state constitutional convention as well as being elected as a Republican to the U.S. House of Representatives, serving from March 4, 1913 \u2013 March 3, 1923 (6th district 1913\u201315, 7th district 1915\u201323). He served as chairman of the Committee on Education during the Sixty-sixth and Sixty-seventh Congresses, and chairman of the Republican National Congressional Committee from 1918 to 1922. In 1922, he did not seek re-election, but ran for the U.S. Senate and won, serving from March 4, 1923, to January 3, 1935. He served as chairman of the Committee on the Library during Sixty-ninth through Seventy-second Congresses, and as Republican Whip from 1929 to 1933. He also served as chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1930 to 1932. After his appointment, the \"Cincinnati Enquirer\" referred to Fess as a \"party wheelhouse and stand patter of the most approved type,\" and added \"It was Senator Fess's proven ability not only to defend, but to eulogize, the acts of Republican administrations, no matter how unpopular they may be, that led to his selection as national chairman.\" Fess campaigned for the reelection of President Herbert Hoover by claiming Hoover was \"the country's greatest peacetime leader,\" a hard sell in the fall of 1932. That speech, a month before the presidential election, was delivered to just 150 listeners, a sign of the Republican Party's problems in mid-Depression. He was an unsuccessful candidate for a third term as senator in 1934.\nRetirement and death.\nFess was a Methodist, an editor, an author and a member of the Freemasons and Knights of Pythias. He died in Washington, D.C. at the age of 75 and was interred at Glen Forest Cemetery in Yellow Springs, Ohio."}
{"id": "714990", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714990", "title": "List of Boyfriends of Friends characters", "text": ""}
{"id": "714991", "revid": "46652772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714991", "title": "Bike path", "text": "A bike path or a cycle path is a bikeway separated from motorized traffic and dedicated to cycling or shared with pedestrians or other non-motorized users. In the US a bike path sometimes encompasses \"shared use paths\", \"multi-use path\", or \"Class III bikeway\" is a paved path that has been designated for use by cyclists outside the right of way of a public road. It may or may not have a center divider or stripe to prevent head-on collisions. In the UK, a \"shared-use footway\" or \"multi-use path\" is for use by both cyclists and pedestrians.\nBike paths with independent rights-of-way.\nBike paths that follow independent rights-of-way are often used to promote recreational cycling. In Northern European countries, cycling tourism represents a significant proportion of overall tourist activity. Extensive interurban bike path networks can be found in countries such as Denmark or the Netherlands, which has had a national system of cycle routes since 1993. These networks may use routes dedicated exclusively to cycle traffic or minor rural roads whose use is otherwise restricted to local motor traffic and agricultural machinery.\nThe \"Fietspad\" or Bicycle Path in the Netherlands is logically constructed to link shops, housing, stations, schools, workplaces for everyday cycling. The more sensible approach is based on efforts to increase utility cycling. In countries like Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany the high levels of utility cycling also includes shopping trips e.g. by 2007 9% of all shopping trips in Germany were by bicycle.\nAlthough it is unusual, to connect people to places, bike paths may be extended into indoor spaces. An example is the indoor bike path at Funan Mall in Singapore that is extended from a shared-use biking and walking path along North Bridge Road.\nThe UK has recently implemented the National Cycle Network.\nWhere available, these routes are often rail trails making use of abandoned railway corridors. A prominent example in the UK is the Bristol &amp; Bath Railway Path, a path for walkers and cyclists that is part of National Cycle Route 4. Other UK examples include The Ebury Way Cycle Path, The Alban Way, the Hillend Loch Railway Path and the Nicky Line. In 2003 the longest continuous bike path in Europe was opened, along the Albacete-Valdeganga highway in Spain, a distance of . Bogota's Bike Paths Network (\"Ciclorutas de Bogot\u00e1\" in Spanish), designed and built during the administration of Mayor Enrique Pe\u00f1alosa attracts significant recreational use. Numerous cycle links between regions are being developed in Italy. The most important is the \"Ciclovia Adriatica\", partially completed which extends, at times, from Trieste to Santa Maria di Leuca. \nThe relative safety of bike paths that follow independent rights-of-way closed to motorized traffic is difficult to assess. In terms of car/bicycle collisions, this is clearly mediated by how the bike path network rejoins the main road network. In the English town of Milton Keynes, a study showed that cyclists using the off-road Milton Keynes redway system had on a per journey basis a significantly higher rate of fatal car-bicycle collisions at path/roadway crossings than cyclists on ordinary roads. This safety can be altered substantially by design. For example, the Dutch Simultaneous Green Junction design has a nearly flawless record when it comes to accommodating cyclists at traffic light junctions.\nShared use path.\nIn many jurisdictions bike paths are shared with pedestrians, but there is a wide variety of quality in helping to minimize cyclist-pedestrian conflicts.\nPop-up bike paths.\nPop-up bike paths are created rapidly in response to unforeseen events, usually with short timescales between their inception and implementation. The creation of pop-up bike paths typically involves \"reallocating road space to better enable this shift and make it safer for people who choose to walk, cycle or wheel for essential trips or for exercise\"."}
{"id": "714998", "revid": "24465790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714998", "title": "Department of San Mart\u00edn", "text": "San Mart\u00edn () is a department of Peru. Located in the country's north, most of the department is located in the upper part of the Peruvian Amazon rainforest. It is administered by a regional government. Its capital is Moyobamba and the largest city in the department is Tarapoto.\nGeography.\nMorphology.\nThe territory of San Mart\u00edn can be divided into four morphological zones: \nThe Huallaga River is one of the most important rivers in the region. It forms, together with its tributaries a hydrographical system which drains all of the region's territory. The Pongo de Aguirre is an important canyon formed by the Huallaga going through the Andean hills.\nEnvironment.\nIn San Mart\u00edn, Conservation International Peru lists an office in Rioja and leads the Alto Mayo Protected Forest Conservation Initiative in the Alto Mayo Protection Forest.\nHistory.\nTupac Yupanqui entered and subdued the Inca dominion, the province of Moyobamba, known back then by its native name, Muyupampa. In 1539, Spaniard Alonso de Alvarado reached the Mayo River and founded a city he named \"Santiago de los Valles de Moyobamba\", which later became the capital of Maynas. Another important personality was Priest Manuel Sobreviela who, between 1787 and 1790, accomplished traveling across the Huallaga River and subsequently published a map named \"Planning for the course of the Huallaga and Ucayali Rivers and for the Pampa del Sacramento\".\nOn August 19, 1821, Moyobamba was the first Peruvian city in declaring its independence.\nThe construction of a highway in recent years has increased the exchange of different products, benefitting the economy of this region.\nPolitical division.\nThe region is divided into 10 provinces (, singular: ), which are composed of 78 districts (\"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\").\nThe provinces, with their capitals in parentheses, are:\nArchaeology.\nGran Paj\u00e1ten is a pre Inca complex of circular slate buildings decorated with figures of flying condors situated on the border with La Libertad. Due to its difficult access, tourism is not yet possible at the site."}
{"id": "715000", "revid": "1317950221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715000", "title": "Greek numbers", "text": "Greek numbers may refer to:"}
{"id": "715003", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715003", "title": "Elnesv\u00e5gen", "text": "Elnesv\u00e5gen is the administrative centre of Hustadvika Municipality in M\u00f8re og Romsdal county, Norway. The village is located along the Fr\u00e6nafjorden about north of the town of Molde, east of the village of Tornes, and northwest of the villages of Malme and Sylte. \nThe village has a population (2024) of 2,741 and a population density of .\nThe area is predominantly an agricultural area; however, there are also several factories including Moxy Engineering (which produces trucks), the Hustadmarmor marble factory (which produces calcium products for European paper producers), and the Tine cheese factory (which is the largest producer of Jarlsberg cheese with exports to the UK, USA, Canada, Germany, and Australia).\nMyrbostad Church was built in 1880 in the eastern part of Elnesv\u00e5gen. A combined association football-athletics stadium was completed in 1997. The best views of Elnesv\u00e5gen are from the mountains Heiane/L\u00e5gheiane and Gjendemsfjellet. Heiane is most easily accessible from Hauglia, the major residential area in Elnesv\u00e5gen."}
{"id": "715004", "revid": "24198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715004", "title": "Canci\u00f3n", "text": "Canci\u00f3n (\"song\") is a popular genre of Latin American music, particularly in Cuba, where many of the compositions originate. Its roots lie in Spanish popular song forms, including tiranas, polos and boleros; also in Italian light operetta, French romanza, and the slow waltz. Initially, even when written by the creole population of Cuba, who opposed the ruling hierarchy, the music retained its European style of \"intricate melodies, and dark, enigmatic and elaborate lyrics\".\nLater, in the latter part of the nineteenth century, the canci\u00f3n came under the influence of the trovador movement. This resulted in the lyrical expression of the feelings and aspirations of the population. The accompaniment of the guitar followed naturally, and the canci\u00f3n gradually fused with other forms of Cuban (and therefore Latin American) music such as the bolero. As a distinguishing mark, though, the canci\u00f3n never has the full-blooded Afro-Cuban percussion which marks so much Cuban popular music.\n\"Canci\u00f3n\" means \"song\" in Spanish. In the Renaissance, the term was often used interchangeably with cantiga, cantar, canson, and sometimes villancico; it was related to the chanson of the Franco-Flemish school. Canci\u00f3n was the least specific term to cover all the popular, secular styles of vocal music of Spain at the time. In Spanish-language concerts and recordings, when the title of a particular song does not belong to a danceable genre (such as son in Cuba, or chacarera in Argentina, its genre is mentioned as \"canci\u00f3n\"."}
{"id": "715006", "revid": "50461682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715006", "title": "Shell cordovan", "text": "Shell cordovan, cordovan, or cordwain is a type of tanned leather. Cordovan is an equine material made from the superficial fascia (or \"shell\") of the lower layers of the hide on the rump of a horse. The material derives its name from the city of Cordoba, Spain, which was long known as a center of leather production and where this type of leather originated. It is a difficult and expensive material to make. Shell cordovan has a unique non-creasing characteristic. Because it is made of connective tissue, it is smooth and lacks the pebbled effect of leather derived from the outer skin.\nProduction.\nAfter removal from the horse, the hide is measured from the root of the tail forward on the backbone. The hide is cut at right angles to the backbone and the resulting pieces termed a \"front\" (the forward part) and the \"butt\". The term cordovan leather applies to the product of both the tanned fronts and tanned butts, but is especially used in connection with the term galoshes, meaning the vamps or boot-fronts cut from the shell of the butt.\nAfter being tanned, leather from the \"front\" is typically used in the fabrication of gloves, or blackened, to be used in the tops of shoes. The \"butt\", after tanning, is passed through a splitting-machine which removes the grain, or hair side, revealing what is termed the \"shell\". The close fibers of the shell result in a smooth and pliable material.\nUses.\nHistorically, shell cordovan was used for razor strops to hone razors in barber shops. It is used mostly in the manufacture of shoes, including high-end shoemaking, and is also used for wallets and watch straps due to its visual appeal and durability. In archery, it is used to protect the fingers and is considered smooth and durable, ideal for a finger tab.\nOutside leather crafting, \"cordwain\" denotes a leather-grain embossed cover paper used for folders, covers, and similar applications in commercial printing."}
{"id": "715007", "revid": "17859592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715007", "title": "Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale", "text": "Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale is a building located in downtown Honolulu, Hawai\u02bbi, currently used as the home of the Hawai\u02bbi State Supreme Court. It is the former seat of government of the Kingdom of Hawai\u02bbi and the Republic of Hawai\u02bbi.\nLocated in the building's courtyard is the famed gold-leaf statue of Kamehameha the Great.\nDesign and history.\nThe Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale was designed by Australian Thomas Rowe in an Italian Renaissance Revival as the royal palace for King Kamehameha V. In the Hawaiian language, \"Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale\" means \"House of Heavenly Kings\". The name \"Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani\" was also one of the given names of Kamehameha V.\nAlthough the building was designed to be a palace, Kamehameha V realized that the Hawaiian government desperately needed a government building. At that time, the several buildings in Honolulu used by the government were very small and cramped, clearly inadequate for the growing Hawaiian government. Thus, when Kamehameha V ordered construction of Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale, he commissioned it as a government office building instead of a palace.\nKamehameha V laid the cornerstone for the building on February 19, 1872. He died before the building was completed, and it was dedicated in 1874 by one of his successors, King David Kal\u0101kaua. At the time, Hawaiian media criticized the building's extravagant design, suggesting that the building be converted into a palace as originally designed.\nUntil 1893, the building held most of the executive departments of the Hawaiian government as well as the Hawaiian legislature and courts.\nOverthrow of the Hawaiian monarchy.\nIt was from Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale in 1893 that the Committee of Safety, under the leadership of Lorrin A. Thurston, deposed Queen Lili\u02bbuokalani by public proclamation.\nAfter the establishment of the Hawaiian provisional government in 1893 and the Republic of Hawai\u02bbi in 1894, some of the offices in Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale were moved to \u02bbIolani Palace, including the Hawaiian legislature. As a result, Ali\u02bbiolani Hale became primarily a judicial building.\nSince 1900.\nThe growing size of Hawai\u02bbi's government continued to be a problem for the building, especially after Hawai\u02bbi became a United States territory in 1900. In 1911, the building was extensively renovated to help solve these space problems. The entire interior of the building was gutted and rebuilt, giving the building's interior a completely new floorplan. Since the building was originally designed to be a palace, its floorplan was not adequate for its later usage as a judicial building. The new layout of the building fixed this problem.\nThe size of the territorial government continued to grow. In the 1940s, a new wing was added to the building to help alleviate the growing problem of overcrowding. The architects who designed the new wing tried to blend it in with the original building that dated back to the 1870s.\nOver the next many decades, most of the state judiciary functions moved out of Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale to various other buildings around Honolulu (including the state district, family, and circuit courts). Today, the building houses the Hawai\u02bbi State Supreme Court and is the administrative center of the Hawai\u02bbi State Judiciary. It also houses the Judiciary History Center, a museum featuring a multimedia presentation of Hawai\u02bbi's judiciary, a restored historic courtroom, and other exhibits dealing with Hawai\u02bbi's judicial history. The building also houses Hawai\u02bbi's largest law library.\nIn December 2005, a capsule buried by Kamehameha V when he laid the cornerstone was located, at the direction of the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command, by Professor Larry Connors of the University of Denver using ground penetrating radar. The capsule contained photos of royal families and the constitution of the Hawaiian Kingdom, Hawaiian postage stamps, Hawaiian and foreign coinage, newspapers, a calendar and books. The capsule was located to protect it during future renovations, and not retrieved due to concerns of damaging the structure of the building itself.\nCopper thieves stripped several copper downspouts from the building in 2006.\nIn the 2010 version of CBS' \"Hawaii Five-0\" TV series, Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale is depicted as the Iolani Palace; headquarters for the Five-0 task force with exterior shots of the building being used frequently throughout the series.\nAli\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale is one of many buildings in downtown Honolulu listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Within walking distance are the Cathedral of Our Lady of Peace, Hawai\u02bbi State Capitol, Hawai\u02bbi State Library, Honolulu Hale, \u02bbIolani Palace, Kawaiaha\u02bbo Church, Territorial Building, and Washington Place.\nKing Kamehameha V Judiciary History Center.\nThe King Kamehameha V Judiciary History Center, located in Ali\u02bbi\u014dlani Hale, focuses on Hawaii's legal history and landmark court cases. Admission is free and the public can tour the exhibits from Monday through Friday from 8am to 4pm. Group tours are offered by reservation."}
{"id": "715008", "revid": "50646557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715008", "title": "EFL Championship", "text": "The English Football League Championship, known simply as the Championship and for sponsorship purposes as the Sky Bet Championship, is a professional association football league in England and Wales. Contested by 24 clubs, it is the highest division of the English Football League (EFL) and second-highest overall in the English football league system, sitting below the Premier League.\nIn its present form, the Championship traces its legacy to the original Football League Second Division, which became the First Division in 1992 when the top flight of English football was reorganised as the Premier League. The current competition was intended for the 2004\u201305 season as the Football League Championship as a rebrand of the First Division. The winning club of this division each season receives the EFL Championship trophy, which was the previous trophy awarded to the winners of the English top-flight prior to the launch of the Premier League. As with other divisions of professional English football, Welsh clubs can be part of this division, thus making it a cross-border league.\nEach season, the two top-finishing teams in the Championship are automatically promoted to the Premier League. The teams that finish the season in third to sixth place enter a play-off tournament, with the winner also gaining promotion to the Premier League. The three lowest-finishing teams in the Championship are relegated to League One.\nThe Championship is the wealthiest non-top-flight football division in the world, the ninth-richest division in Europe, and the 12th best-attended division in world football (with the second highest per-match attendance of any secondary league \u2013 after the German 2. Bundesliga). Its average match attendance for the 2022\u201323 season was 18,787.\nCardiff City have spent more seasons in this division than any other team, and Bristol City, Preston North End and Queens Park Rangers currently hold the longest tenure in this division, having last been absent in the 2014\u201315 season. Barnsley became the first club to attain 1,000 wins in second-tier English league football with a 2\u20131 home victory over Coventry City on 3 January 2011. They also became the first club to play 3,000 games in second-level English league football following another 2\u20131 home victory, this time against Brighton &amp; Hove Albion on 12 March 2013 The current champions of the league are Leeds United.\nHistory.\nSunderland won the league in the first season since rebranding, with Wigan Athletic finishing second to win promotion to the top flight of English football for the first time in their history. They had only been elected to the Football League in 1978 playing in the fourth tier as recently as 1994 before their promotion. West Ham United won the first Championship play-off final that season, following a 1\u20130 victory over Preston North End at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff. The 2004\u201305 season saw the division announce a total attendance (including postseason) of 9.8\u00a0million, the fourth-highest total attendance for a European football division, behind the Premier League (12.88 million), Spain's La Liga (11.57 million) and Germany's Bundesliga (10.92 million). Additionally, Millwall, competing in the inaugural Championship season, qualified for the UEFA Cup, only to lose in the first round. In the 2005\u201306 season, Reading broke the Football League points record for a season, finishing with 106 points, exceeding the record of 105 set by Sunderland in 1998\u201399.\nSunderland won their second Championship title in the 2006\u201307 season, after being relegated from the top division the previous season. On 4 May 2007, Leeds United became the first side since the re-branding of the division to enter administration; they were deducted 10 points and were relegated as a result. On 28 May 2007, Derby County won the first Championship play-off final at the new Wembley Stadium, beating West Bromwich Albion 1\u20130. West Brom would go on to win the Championship in the following season.\nBurnley, who finished fifth in 2009, defeated Sheffield United to earn their first season in the newly branded Premier League, last being in the Football League First Division in 1976.\nOn 30 September 2009, Coca-Cola announced they would end their sponsorship deal with the Football League, which began in 2004, at the end of the 2009\u201310 season. On 16 March 2010, npower were announced as the new title sponsors of the Football League, and from the start of the 2010\u201311 Football League season until the end of the 2012\u201313 season, the Football League Championship was known as the \"Npower Championship\". Crystal Palace became the second Championship club to enter administration in 2010.\nAfter winning the 2011 League Cup final, Birmingham City became the first Championship club to compete in the group stage of the UEFA Cup/Europa League, finishing third in the group, only one point behind Portuguese club Braga. Birmingham City eventually finished fourth in the Championship that season, and would lose to fifth-place Blackpool in the play-off. Wigan Athletic became the second club to participate in the Europa League group stage after winning the 2013 FA Cup, only to accumulate one win and lose their last three group matches.\nOn 18 July 2013, UK bookmaker Sky Bet announced that they had signed a five-year agreement to sponsor the league.\nOn 24 May 2014, the Championship play-off final between Derby County and Queens Park Rangers saw the highest crowd for any Championship fixture \u2013 87,348 witnessed a Bobby Zamora stoppage time winner for QPR to win promotion for the London club.\nFor the 2016\u201317 season, the Football League was rebranded as the English Football League. The league had a cumulative attendance of more than 11 million \u2013 excluding play-off matches \u2013 with more than two million watching Newcastle United and Aston Villa home fixtures alone, both of whom had been relegated from the Premier League in the previous season. This was included in the highest crowds for the second to fourth tier in England since the 1958\u201359 season. Newcastle won the title in 2016\u201317, while Aston Villa finished 13th, eventually returning to the Premier League in 2019.\nOn 13 March 2020, Championship play was halted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with a suspension lasting until 4 April. It was then extended to the end of April, with the league eventually restarting on 20 June. Leeds United were confirmed as champions on 17 July 2020, being promoted to the Premier League for the first time in 16 years.\nBrentford, having been in League Two in 2009 and gaining promotion to the Championship five years later, were promoted following a play-off victory against Swansea City on 29 May 2021, after losing the play-off to Fulham the previous year. On 29 May 2022, Nottingham Forest, having been in the Championship for 14 consecutive seasons, ended their 23-year absence from the top flight by beating Huddersfield Town in the play-off final, after being last in the league as late as round 8 of the 2021\u201322 season.\nThe EFL Championship took a unique four-week break in November and December 2022 to allow for players to join their national teams at the 2022 FIFA World Cup held in Qatar.\nLeague structure.\nThe league comprises 24 teams. Over the course of a season, which runs annually from August to the following May (in 2022, the year of a World Cup break in November and December, the league started in July), each team plays twice against the others in the league, once at 'home' and once 'away', resulting in each team competing in 46 games in total. Three points are awarded for a win, one for a draw, and zero for a loss. The teams are ranked in the league table by points gained, then goal difference, then goals scored, and then their head-to-head record for that season (including away goals record). If two or more teams finish the season equal in all these respects, then teams are separated by alphabetical order, unless a promotion, relegation, or play-off place (see below) is at stake, when the teams are separated by a play-off game, though this improbable situation has never arisen in all the years the rule has existed.\nAt the end of the season, the top two teams and the winner of the Championship play-offs are promoted to the Premier League and the bottom three teams are relegated to EFL League One. The Football League Championship play-offs is a knock-out competition for the teams finishing the season in third to sixth place with the winner being promoted to the Premier League. In the play-offs, the third-placed team plays against the sixth-placed team and the fourth-placed team plays against the fifth-placed team in two-legged semi-finals (home and away). The winners of each semi-final then compete in a single match at Wembley Stadium with the prize being promotion to the Premier League and the Championship play-off trophy.\nClubs.\nSeasons in English second tier.\nThere are 106 teams that have taken part in 122 English second tier seasons (including the Football League Second Division, the Football League First Division, and the EFL Championship) that were played from the 1892\u201393 season until the 2025\u201326 season. The teams in bold compete in the EFL Championship currently, while the teams in italics have never competed in the EFL Championship. The year in parentheses represents the most recent year of participation at this level.\nSeasons in EFL Championship.\nThere are 58 teams that have taken part in 22 English second tier seasons that were played from the 2004\u201305 season until the 2025\u201326 season. The teams in bold compete in the EFL Championship currently. The year in parentheses represents the most recent year of participation at this level.\nAttendances.\nThe EFL Championship is the second most-watched second-tier domestic sports league in the World, behind the German 2. Bundesliga (29,081), with an average of 23,048 spectators per game in the 2023\u201324 season. The Championship is the fifth most watched league in Europe.\nThe highest average league attendance was in 2023\u201324 season, when 12.7 million fans attended Championship matches, at an average of 23,048 per game. The lowest average league attendance came in the 2013\u201314 season, when 9.1 million spectators watched at an average of 16,605 per game. The highest seasonal average for a club was 51,106 for Newcastle United in the 2016\u201317 season.\nHistoric performance.\nSince the restructuring into the Championship in 2004, 57 teams have spent at least one season in the division, including 13 of the 20 teams in the 2025\u201326 Premier League. Cardiff City have spent the longest in the league with 19 seasons. The 15-season spell for Ipswich Town between 2004 and 2019 is the longest consecutive spell of any team in the division. The teams with the current longest tenure are Bristol City, Preston North End and Queens Park Rangers, who will each have their eleventh consecutive season as a Championship team in the 2025\u201326 season. Norwich City has had six separate spells in the Championship; the most of any team. There have been 13 different winners of the EFL Championship, with eight teams (Burnley, Leeds United, Leicester City, Newcastle United, Norwich City, Reading, Sunderland and Wolverhampton Wanderers) having won it twice.\nBurnley and Norwich City have been promoted out of the Championship on four occasions, with five teams (Fulham, Hull City, Sheffield United, Watford, West Brom) having been promoted on three occasions. Rotherham United have been relegated from the Championship the most times on five occasions, with Wigan Athletic having been relegated the second-most times on four occasions and two teams (Barnsley and Charlton Athletic) having been relegated on three occasions. 14 teams have been both promoted out of and relegated from the Championship.\nKey"}
{"id": "715009", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715009", "title": "Hawaiian god", "text": ""}
{"id": "715010", "revid": "1722754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715010", "title": "Mount Haruna", "text": " is a dormant stratovolcano in Gunma Prefecture, in the Kant\u014d region of eastern Honsh\u016b, Japan.\nOutline.\nMount Haruna started to form more than 300,000 years ago and the last known eruption was 550 AD. The volcano has a summit caldera containing the symmetrical cinder cone of Mount Haruna-Fuji, along with a crater lake, Lake Haruna, along the western side. To the west of the lake is Mount Kamonga, the tallest of Mount Haruna's numerous peaks at high.\nThe lake and the area to its east, as well as the southern and southwestern slopes, lie within the borders of Takasaki city. The border of Shibukawa city (to the east) nearly approaches Lake Haruna. Both Shinto village and Yoshioka town are on the southeast slopes of the mountain. The northern and northwestern slopes lie within Higashi Agatsuma town, which also bounds Lake Haruna. The summit lies on the border of Takasaki and Higashi Agatsuma.\nMount Haruna, along with Mount Akagi and Mount My\u014dgi, is one of the \"Three Mountains of J\u014dm\u014d.\" (J\u014dm\u014d is an old name for Gunma.)\nIn popular culture.\nThe Japanese battlecruiser/Battleship Haruna was named after the Mount Haruna.\nThe mountain was made famous in the manga series \"Initial D\" under the fictional name Akina (\u79cb\u540d), where the main character, Takumi Fujiwara, delivers tofu every day to a hotel uphill, and back down using his father's highly modified Toyota Sprinter Trueno (AE86). It is also where Takumi won his first few races. It is the home course for the racing team called the Akina Speed Stars with which Takumi becomes closely associated. Later in the anime Takumi, due to his unbeatable track records and for his downhill driving technique, is popularly referred to as 'Akina's 86'.\nThe mountain is featured in the PlayStation 2 games \"Kaido Battle\", ' and '. It is also featured in the PC games \"\" and \"Blur\", although not realistically."}
{"id": "715013", "revid": "48282118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715013", "title": "Department of Puno", "text": "Puno (; Aymara and Quechua: \"Punu\") is a department of Peru. Located in the country's southeast, it is the fifth largest department in Peru, after Cuzco, Madre de Dios, Ucayali, and Loreto. It is bordered by Bolivia to the east, the departments of Madre de Dios to the north, Cusco and Arequipa to the west, Moquegua to the southwest, and Tacna to the south. It is administered by a regional government. Its capital is the city of Puno, which is located on Lake Titicaca in the geographical region known as the Altiplano or high sierra.\nHistory.\nPuno was the territory of the Tiahuanacos (800 A.D. \u2013 1200 A.D.), who were the highest cultural expression of the Aymara people who established themselves in what is today Peru and Bolivia. The Incas took over these lands in the fifteenth century, and the Spanish, attracted by the mining industry developed there, left an important Colonial legacy throughout the entire area.\nThe department was created by the \"Reglamento Provisional de Elecciones\", published on April 26, 1822, which established the department of Puno alongside those of Arequipa, Cuzco, Huamanga, and Huancavelica.\nIn department was the site of the 2007 Carancas impact event.\nGeography.\nThe department of Puno is located in the Collao Plateau. The western part of Lake Titicaca, which is the world's highest navigable lake, is located in the department. The Andean mountains make up 70% of the region's territory, and the rest is covered by the Amazon rainforest.\nThe lake contains numerous islands whose inhabitants continue to live as their ancestors have in custom and tradition. The Uros an example of this; this people group lives on \"floating islands\" that they have artificially made entirely of totora reeds, and they navigate in their traditional boats also made out of totora reeds. Taquile, Suasi, and Amantan\u00ed are known for their kindness of their residents, their ancestral skill in weaving, their pre-Columbian constructions, and lovely countryside. The Titicaca National Reserve (36,180 hectares) protects extensive stretches of totora reeds and various species of plants and animals.\nThe climate is cold and dry, with a four-month rain season. On the other hand, the climate of the rainforest is warm. The water resources are taken from the Lake Titicaca, 50 lagoons and more than 300 rivers. There is also an important potential in underground waters.\nPolitical division.\nThe region is divided into 13 provinces (\"provincias\", singular: \"provincia\"), which are composed of 107 districts (\"distritos\", singular: \"distrito\"). The provinces, with their capitals in parentheses, are:\nHistory.\nIn ancient times, the Collao plateau was inhabited by Aymara groups (Collas or Qolla, Zapanas, Kallahuayos and Lupacas). The Quechuas came later.\nAccording to chronicler Inca Garcilaso de la Vega, these ancient times coincide with the legend of Manco C\u00e1pac and Mama Ocllo, who emerged from the waters of Lake Titicaca to found the Inca Empire.\nThe Aymara culture, also known as Putina, was the most important and influential pre-Hispanic culture in the region.\nDuring the Viceroyship, Puno was the obliged route for travelers going to Potos\u00ed, Bolivia. In 1668, viceroy Conde de Lemos established San Juan Bautista de Puno as the capital of the province of Paucarcolla. Later, it was called San Carlos de Puno, in honor of the ruling king, Charles II of Spain. The town was the capital of the Intendancy of Puno.\nIn 1870, the railway route Arequipa-Puno was installed and navigation in Lake Titicaca started.\nIn 2007, a meteorite landed in the region, triggering a widespread illness amongst the locals. The exact cause of the illness is unknown, but is speculated to be a result of arsenic or other toxic chemicals that may have been released by the heat of impact.\nLanguage and ethnicity.\nIndigenous people are the majority in the Puno region. , 41.4% of Puno's inhabitants speak Quechua, 30.39% speak Aymara; 0.05% speak Ashaninka; and 0.03% speak another indigenous language. Monolingual Spanish speakers make up 28.1% of the population.\nAccording to the 2007 Peru Census, the language learnt first by most of the residents was Quechua (38.01%) followed by Spanish (34.81%) and Aymara (26.93%). The Quechua variety spoken in Puno is Cusco\u2013Collao Quechua. The following table shows the results concerning the language learnt first in the Puno Region by province:\nTourism.\nTourism is currently expanding in the Puno Region, with several tour operators and hotels ranging from low budget hostels to high-end hotels."}
{"id": "715014", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715014", "title": "New Mexico State Legislature", "text": ""}
{"id": "715016", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715016", "title": "Deathstroke", "text": "Deathstroke is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by writer Marv Wolfman and artist George P\u00e9rez, the character first appeared in \"The New Teen Titans\" #2 (1980) as Deathstroke the Terminator.\nDeathstroke is the alias of Slade Joseph Wilson, a mercenary and former U.S. Army soldier who gains enhanced physical and mental abilities from an experimental super-soldier serum. Regarded as the greatest and deadliest assassin in the DC Universe, he serves as the archenemy of Dick Grayson and the Teen Titans, although he has also fought other superheroes, including Batman, Green Arrow, and the Justice League. Deathstroke's vendetta against the Titans began when he swore revenge for the death of his eldest son Grant; his other two children, Joseph and Rose, would go on to join the Titans to oppose him. A bicolored black-and-orange mask that covers his missing right eye serves as Deathstroke's visual motif.\nThe character has been adapted in various media incarnations, having been portrayed in television by Michael Hogan in \"Smallville\", Manu Bennett in \"Arrow\", and Esai Morales in \"Titans\"; and in film by Joe Manganiello in \"Justice League\" and its director's cut. Ron Perlman and others have provided Deathstroke's voice in animation and video games.\nPublication history.\nDeathstroke the Terminator was created by Marv Wolfman and George P\u00e9rez, and made his first appearance in \"The New Teen Titans\" #2 in December 1980.\nDue to his popularity, Deathstroke received his own series, \"Deathstroke the Terminator\", in 1991. It was retitled \"Deathstroke the Hunted\" for issues #0 and #41\u201345; and then simply \"Deathstroke\" for issues #46\u201360. The series was cancelled with issue #60. In total, \"Deathstroke\" ran for 65 issues (#1\u201360, plus four \"Annuals\" and a special #0 issue).\nDeathstroke will receive a new ongoing series in March 2026 as part of the \"DC Next Level\" publishing initiative.\nThe character\u2019s popularity with readers also led Rob Liefeld to create the popular Marvel Comics character Deadpool (Wade Wilson), whose name, powers, and costume were originally patterned on Deathstroke.\nFollowing his injury in \"DC Universe: Last Will and Testament\", Deathstroke appears in one of the four \"Faces of Evil\" one-shots, written by David Hine.\nDespite predating James Cameron's film \"The Terminator\" by four years, the character is now simply called Deathstroke, though the full title has not completely fallen out of use, having been referenced in \"Justice League Elite\".\nFictional character biography.\nSlade Wilson was 16 years old when he enlisted in the United States Army, having lied about his age. After participation in the Korean War, he was assigned to Camp Washington where he had been promoted to the rank of major. In the early 1960s, he met Captain Adeline Kane, who was tasked with training young soldiers in new fighting techniques in anticipation of brewing troubles taking place in Vietnam. Kane was amazed at how skilled Slade was and how quickly he adapted to modern conventions of warfare. She immediately fell in love with him and realized that he was without a doubt the most able-bodied combatant that she had ever encountered. She offered to privately train Slade in guerrilla warfare. In less than a year, Slade mastered every fighting form presented to him and was soon promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel. Six months later, Adeline and he were married and she became pregnant with their first child. The war in Vietnam began to escalate and Slade was shipped overseas. In the war, his unit massacred a village, an event which sickened him. He was also rescued by SAS member Wintergreen, to whom he would later return the favor.\nChosen for a secret experiment, the Army imbued him with a drug that allowed him to utilize and use up to 90% of his brain's capacity granting him enhanced physical powers and near-mastery control of his body (accelerated healing-factor and heightened senses) in an attempt to create metahuman super-soldiers for the U.S. military. Deathstroke became a mercenary soon after the experiment when he defied orders and rescued his friend Wintergreen, who had been sent on a suicide mission by a commanding officer with a grudge. However, Slade kept this career secret from his family, even though his wife was an expert military combat instructor.\nA criminal named Jackal took his younger son Joseph Wilson hostage to force Slade to divulge the name of a client who had hired him as an assassin. Slade refused, claiming it was against his personal honor code. He attacked and killed the kidnappers at the rendezvous. Joseph's throat was slashed by one of the criminals before Slade could prevent it, destroying Joseph's vocal cords and rendering him mute.\nAfter taking Joseph to the hospital, Adeline was enraged at Slade's endangerment of Joseph and tried to kill Slade by shooting him, but only managed to destroy his right eye. Slade's confidence in his physical abilities was such that he made no secret of his impaired vision, marked by his mask which has a black, featureless half covering his lost right eye. Without his mask, Slade wears an eye patch to cover his eye.\nThe Teen Titans.\nSlade has a long history as an enemy of the Teen Titans, beginning when his other son Grant received superhuman enhancements from H.I.V.E., dubbed himself Ravager, and accepted a contract from them to kill or capture the Teen Titans. However, Grant's enhancements proved fatal, and Slade agreed to complete the contract. His first mission involved stealing the element Promethium from S.T.A.R. Labs and selling it as the ultimate weapon. He then kidnapped the Titans and placed them in the path of a Promethium bomb to test his device for the buyers, effectively killing two birds with one stone. The Titans escaped and pursued Deathstroke, but he severely wounded Beast Boy in his escape. This would be the start to a lasting animosity between the two.\nDeathstroke next appeared in New York, holding officials hostage to lure the Titans into confronting him. Terra, a new ally of the Titans, and Beast Boy were the only ones available to answer the call. Terra knocked Beast Boy out and fought Deathstroke single-handedly in an effort to prove herself worthy of being a Titan. Deathstroke escaped as the other Titans arrived, but by then Terra had proven herself and the team offered her membership. Later that night, it was revealed that Terra and Deathstroke had conspired to fake the fight in a plot to infiltrate the team.\nThe Judas Contract.\nDuring \"The Judas Contract\", the Titans eventually entrusted Terra with all of their secret identities. Once Slade had this information, he used it to systematically subdue each of the Titans, exploiting them at their weakest moments. Donna Troy was gassed at her photo studio, Changeling was anesthetized with tainted envelopes while responding to fan mail, Victor Stone was electrically shocked by a chair in his own apartment, Starfire was ambushed with a device that affected her powers, and Raven was taken down by Terra herself. Nightwing was last to be attacked and he was confronted by Deathstroke himself. He avoided being captured and soon discovered that his teammates had already been taken. Nightwing arrived at Titans Tower to discover Slade's ex-wife and son. She told Nightwing that Terra was a traitor, how each of his teammates were captured, and related the origin of Deathstroke.\nNightwing, to confront Deathstroke and H.I.V.E., joined Jericho (Joseph Wilson). During the confrontation, Deathstroke recognized Jericho as his son, which caused him to hesitate. Jericho freed the Titans by possessing his father's body. After Terra died during the battle, Slade was then taken into custody.\nSlade was put on trial for his crimes, but the trial was deliberately sabotaged by Changeling so that he could kill Slade himself, believing that he was responsible for Terra's betrayal of the Titans. Slade agreed to the confrontation, but showed up out of costume. Changeling found himself unable to kill Slade, so instead they talked. Feeling some empathy for his grief, Slade explained his past with Terra, and Changeling realized that Slade was not to blame for the choices that Terra had made. The two men parted on peaceful terms, with Slade returning to Africa with Wintergreen.\nTitans Plague.\nMonths later, Slade encountered the Titans again while they were investigating mysterious attacks and disappearances. Donna Troy is attacked by a group of strange beastmen and barely survives the encounter. Meanwhile, while attending a fundraiser with his father, Gar Logan recognizes Slade trying to maintain a low profile. When he finally catches up with Slade, he finds him about to kill the host of the fundraiser, Walter Lanier. He stops Deathstroke, but is surprised when Lanier turns into a bat-like creature and flies away. Slade reveals to the Titans that he was responsible for smuggling the drug the bestiamorphs were using to transform others, but did not realize what it was until it was too late. After Jericho and Raven were stricken by the plague, he aided them in destroying the beastmen and finding a cure for the contagion.\nTitans Hunt.\nShortly after this, he came to the Titans' assistance again during the \"Titans Hunt\" storyline. The members of the Titans, as well as many inactive members, all disappeared in a manner very similar to how they were abducted during the \"Judas Contract\". Mento, an on-and-off member of the Doom Patrol, hires Deathstroke to find the missing Titans. He eventually discovers with Nightwing that the abductions were the work of the Wildebeest Society, and that their leader was Jericho, Deathstroke's son.\nIt was revealed that Jericho had been possessed by the corrupted souls of Azarath, as they were using him to capture the Titans and use them as physical hosts to survive. During the transfer process, Jericho's true self resurfaced briefly, begging his father to kill him. To spare his son any more pain and save the remaining Titans, Slade was forced to drive a sword through Jericho's heart, seemingly killing him.\nAfterward, Slade continued his life as a mercenary, but also acted as an occasional ally to the Titans, aiding them when mutual threats outweighed their rivalry, most notably during the \"Total Chaos\" storyline when the Team Titans arrived in the 20th century to assassinate Donna Troy before she could give birth to her son, who in their timeline had grown up into the tyrannical despot Lord Chaos. Slade also met Pat Trayce, a tough former cop who would become the new Vigilante. Pat Trayce became Slade's lover later on, and the two developed a romantic as well as a professional relationship.\nFamily business.\nAfter Slade foiled an assassination attempt on the President of the United States, he was subsequently framed for the murder of a U.S. Senator. The man responsible had taken on the identity of the Ravager and was hunting down Slade's friends and loved ones. Eventually, with the help of the Titans and Sarge Steel, Slade was able to prove his innocence and the true culprit was revealed to be Steve Dayton, under the alias of the Crime Lord, who had again succumbed to mental instability caused by his Mento helmet.\nMeanwhile, Slade's relationship with his estranged wife Adeline took a tragic turn, as Slade underwent a process to gain the ability of physical regeneration, allowing him to survive any wound so long as his brain is intact (but this power is limited, as Slade cannot regenerate his lost eye because that injury happened before he gained his healing factor). After gaining this power, Slade was forced to give his wife a blood transfusion to save her life, resulting in her gaining a similar healing factor which manifested itself as a form of immortality. This alteration of her DNA drove Adeline insane, shaming Deathstroke into going into a semi-retirement state.\nIn \"Titans\" #12, Deathstroke teamed up with the Titans to face his wife Adeline, who in her insane state had revived H.I.V.E. and sought to rid the world of all superhumans, blaming them for Jericho's apparent death. During the battle, interrupted by Vandal Savage and a band of villains that he had organized from recent Titans battles, Adeline's throat was slit. In a brief return of sanity, she begged Slade to kill her, requesting him to reunite her with \"my... \"our\" children...\" because her version of the healing factor would not heal the wound, but only allow her to live in spite of it. Deathstroke refused, but Starfire shocked her teammates and Deathstroke by using her starbolt blast to disintegrate her completely, per Adeline's wishes. This was a turning point, as Deathstroke renounced all ties with the Titans as a result of Starfire's act.\nIt was then revealed that Jericho managed to transfer his consciousness into Deathstroke in the instant before his death. Taking control of his father, Jericho forced Deathstroke to murder his longtime butler, mentor and confidant Wintergreen. He then launched a series of attacks against the current Teen Titans, most notably shattering Impulse's knee with a shotgun blast, before leaving his father's body. Deathstroke manipulates Rose Wilson into the mercenary business as the new Ravager, to find and kill Jericho, using a specially designed serum to heighten her hostility and push her over the edge. Unfortunately, the process also resulted in her being driven at least partially insane, to the extent that she cut out her own left eye in an attempt to prove to her father that she was just like him.\n\"Nightwing\" and \"Birds of Prey\".\nDeathstroke appeared in \"Nightwing\" (vol. 2) #23 as a mercenary against Black Canary and Connor Hawke as part of the \"Brotherhood of the Fist\" tie-in to the \"No Man's Land\" story arc.\nDeathstroke also appeared in \"Birds of Prey\" #22\u201324, where he was sent to Gorilla City by Blockbuster to get an ape-heart. He is accompanied by Lady Vic, Grimm, and Black Canary, who is posing as Oracle.\n\"Identity Crisis\".\nIn the \"Identity Crisis\" miniseries, Deathstroke was enlisted as a bodyguard for Doctor Light, who was being pursued by the Justice League of America as a suspect in the murder of Sue Dibny. In the ensuing battle, Deathstroke nearly beat the team of Elongated Man, Flash, Zatanna, Hawkman, Green Arrow, Black Canary, Atom and Green Lantern. He systematically took out every member except for Green Lantern, whom he had the potential to disable through trying to usurp his ring's energies using his own formidable willpower. But before the outcome of this conflict with Green Lantern ended, Green Arrow stuck an arrow in Deathstroke's right eye socket, enraging him. Slade went ballistic, which derailed his pre-planned strategy and began to beat Green Arrow, but was stopped when the majority of the team tackled Deathstroke to the ground. Dr. Light used his powers to allow the two to escape. Near the end of \"Identity Crisis\", Deathstroke confronts Green Arrow on a rooftop. Arrow sees his reflection in the windows of a nearby building, but when he turns to confront Slade, Deathstroke is gone. Instead, Green Arrow finds Slade's cowl and a note stuck to the wall by the very arrow he stabbed in Slade's eye socket. The note reads \"This is yours \u2013 we're not done.\"\n\"Infinite Crisis\".\nDeathstroke was a founding member of Lex Luthor's Secret Society of Super Villains in the \"Infinite Crisis\" storyline. He was seen in \"Infinite Crisis\" #1, hiding in a warehouse south of Metropolis waiting to ambush the Freedom Fighters with several other members. The battle did not last long, and by the end, Deathstroke had killed the Phantom Lady. Slade also shoots Uncle Sam in the back, leading to his apparent death.\nHe was the employer of Nightwing, whom he hired to train his daughter Rose. However, after the two have a confrontation with Superman, Deathstroke discovers that Nightwing had been teaching Rose the values of heroism. He could not kill Grayson in front of his daughter, because doing so would undo all of Slade's teachings. Nightwing offered a deal: he would stay away from Rose if Slade would keep the metahuman villains out of Bl\u00fcdhaven. The deal held for 34 hours until \"Infinite Crisis\" #4, when Slade, under the orders of Alexander Luthor Jr., the real leader of the Society, went with several villains (including old Titans and Doom Patrol foes and Brotherhood of Evil members Monsieur Mallah and Brain) to drop Chemo on Bl\u00fcdhaven, killing over 100,000 people. Slade gave the explanation to the Brotherhood that Nightwing should be made to believe that he can never go home again.\nNightwing took the first of his revenge by bursting in on Deathstroke and Rose's training session, revealing to the latter that the kryptonite that Deathstroke had implanted in place of her missing eye was radioactive and deadly to humans with prolonged exposure. Angered, Slade went after Nightwing with a grenade, only to have Rose try to stop him. Amid the smoke of the resulting explosion, Rose fled, telling her father that she hated him. Nightwing disappeared as well, but not before leaving a note for Slade warning him that he would be back to make him pay for Bl\u00fcdhaven.\nAt the climactic Battle of Metropolis at the conclusion of \"Infinite Crisis\", Slade was confronted by Batman, Robin and Nightwing. During the struggle, he was questioned regarding his motives for aiding the Secret Society. His claims of monetary motivation were deemed unsatisfactory; Batman accused him of having forsaken his code of honor, and Nightwing said it was because his family had abandoned him. Enraged, Slade said that was because of Nightwing, and that it was always because of him, before Batman told him to take responsibility for his actions and he was rendered unconscious.\n\"One Year Later\".\nSlade appears in the \"Green Arrow\" series after the one year jump in DC Comics' storylines. Apparently in hiding, he nearly murders a crony of several Star City businessmen who want to hire him for a murder. Before finishing his violent refusal, he asks the name of the target. When informed that it was to be the mayor of Star City, Oliver Queen (whom Deathstroke knows is secretly Green Arrow), he spares the lackey and decides to take the job.\nHowever, things do not quite go according to plan, with Green Arrow using the resources of both his identities, trapping him within a ring of armed National Guardsmen. The fight ends with Deathstroke's arrest and subsequent conviction and incarceration; however, this is revealed as a ploy to gain access to Constantine Drakon, another jailed foe of Green Arrow who has information on the hero's activities in the lost year, which include Green Arrow studying under Natas, an assassin who once trained Deathstroke himself.\nDeathstroke is also active behind the scenes in \"Teen Titans\", currently in the process of organizing a counter-team of teen superhumans that will be known as Titans East. The current Titans team included Ravager, who now wanted nothing to do with her father. Deathstroke seemingly intended to \"reclaim\" Ravager and the resurrected Jericho from the Titans or, if that failed, to crush them along with the rest of the team. For these reasons, he specially selected each member of Titans East, believing that, overall, each member would successfully counteract every member of the current Teen Titans line-up.\nAs indicated over the course of the subsequent issues, Deathstroke was manipulating every member of his new team in one way or another. He had blackmailed former Titan Risk while at the same time offering him an outlet for his rage, was drugging Batgirl with the same serum he had used on Rose, and supplied Inertia with a formula that granted superhuman speed to compensate for the loss of the Speed Force following the initial battle with Superboy-Prime. His team, however, slowly fell apart over the course of the attack, as Robin managed to free Batgirl of his mind control serum and Raven convinced Duela Dent to switch sides. Slade and his remaining Titans subsequently faced off against both the current Titans and a group of old Titans led by Nightwing. Although he was defeated, he still managed to escape with the aid of Inertia. In the end, however, it was revealed to the readers that Slade's real mission was to provide his children with something he could never offer them: a real family, in the form of the Teen Titans. By attacking the Titans, he insured that Rose and Jericho would become more trusted by their associates, and thus grow closer to the team.\nDeathstroke took credit for somehow twisting (through unknown means) the powers of Geo-Force, the half-brother of the original Terra, into the same powers as his traitorous sister. Using this leverage, Deathstroke offered to reverse the process only if Geo-Force became his own personal spy within the Justice League. Unfortunately for Deathstroke, Geo-Force alerted Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman of Deathstroke's scheme, which culminated in Geo-Force alerting the League that Deathstroke (whose rivalry with Green Arrow had reached vendetta-level proportions) planned on using an army of supervillains to crash Green Arrow and Black Canary's wedding. Weeks later, Geo-Force was tortured by Gorilla Grodd after the League was kidnapped by the Injustice League, and ultimately transferred to Batman's newest incarnation of the Outsiders afterward, robbing Deathstroke of his potential pawn.\nDeathstroke later appears as a member of Libra's Secret Society of Super Villains.\nDeathstroke is gravely injured with his own sword by Geo-Force in \"DC Universe: Last Will and Testament\". Following his injury, he is recuperating at Belle Reve while doctors labor to save him. Deathstroke dreams of his family members and all of the people that he has let down. When he awakens, he vows that he will never again be haunted by the past.\nRavager comes to visit him, but in fact, wants to finish her father off. She tries to strangle him with a plastic wire, but Deathstroke is recuperated enough that he can fend off her attack. He escapes from the facility and steals a helicopter. Later, Deathstroke finds a young street urchin that he decides to take under his wing.\n\"Blackest Night\".\nIn the \"Teen Titans\" (vol. 3) tie-in to the \"Blackest Night\" crossover event, Deathstroke is living in the deceased Wintergreen's house and reading his journal, when he is attacked by Rose again. During the fight, the two are attacked by their deceased relatives Grant, Wade, and Adeline, who, along with Wintergreen, have all been reanimated as Black Lanterns. Deathstroke and Rose are forced to work together and fight for their lives against the Black Lanterns.\nThe two hopelessly fight the regenerating Black Lanterns until Jericho, cured from his earlier insanity, arrives and turns the tide of the fight. During the course of the battle, Deathstroke confesses to his children that part of the reason why he menaced the Teen Titans for so many years was that he felt that by forcing his children to hate him, they would have a chance of escaping the sorrow and pain that a life with him would entail. Just as Slade is overwhelmed and about to be killed, Jericho uses his abilities to possess the Black Lanterns and sever their connection with their power rings, killing them once more. After realizing that her mother was not reborn as a member of the Black Lantern Corps, Rose comes to the conclusion that she must somehow still be alive, and leaves after threatening to kill Slade if he tries to stop her. Jericho chooses to stay with his father, reasoning that only Slade would have the courage to kill him if he were to ever return to madness.\n\"Batman and Robin\".\nDeathstroke is seen working with Talia al Ghul, controlling the body and physical actions of Robin to kill Batman. Deathstroke is able to control Robin's actions, thanks to a neural-implant inserted into Robin's spine by his mother while it was being surgically replaced. Batman defeats Deathstroke by taking advantage of the two-way connection between him and Robin by using a taser on Robin, the resulting electric shock overwhelming Deathstroke's enhanced senses. He then tracks Slade down and attacks him in his hospital bed for controlling Robin and for the Chemo attack, informing Slade that what happened then is just a 'trailer' for what he will do later.\n\"Titans: Villains for Hire\".\nFollowing the encounter with the Black Lanterns, Deathstroke recruits a team of supervillains consisting of Tattooed Man, Cheshire, Osiris, and the new character Cinder following the launch of \"Brightest Day\". The team ambushes Ryan Choi in his home, and then battles him. This ends with Deathstroke driving his sword through Ryan's chest, killing him. He then gives the deceased hero's body to Dwarfstar.\nFollowing the assassination of the Atom, Deathstroke and the Titans are hired to kill Lex Luthor during his stay in Midway City. The attack is revealed to be a ruse crafted by Slade and Luthor to draw out a traitor on Luthor's security staff, who is revealed to be a shape-shifting assassin named Facade. After the Titans capture Facade and turn him over to the scientists at LexCorp, Luthor rewards Slade by examining technology that he had earlier ordered Tattooed Man and Cheshire to steal. Slade claims that this will bring him one step closer to his true goal: the ability to cheat death itself. He also succeeds in recruiting Arsenal, a former member of the Teen Titans and Justice League, into the team. Shortly after inducting Arsenal into the team, Slade accepts a mission to rescue a child from a drug lord named Elijah. After discovering that Elijah is using the bodies of kidnapped children to create an addictive drug called Bliss, the Titans promptly kill the gangster and shut down his operation. As the Titans are preparing to return to the Labyrinth, Cheshire notices that Slade has tied up DJ Molecule, a powerful metahuman who was working for Elijah as a bodyguard. When asked what he is doing with the young man, Slade cryptically responds by saying that he only accepted the mission to capture Molecule for some unknown purpose.\nAfterward, Slade and his team arrive at South Pacific Island to kill cult leader Drago over the arena production of blind warriors; however, his team, Arsenal, and Cheshire betray him, revealing that they had been working with Drago. While Slade is held captive, Drago arrives and reveals to him that he is actually Slade's old friend, Corporal Daniel Rogers, who abandoned him during the civil war in Afghanistan. Drago then gouges out Slade's left eye making him blind. Slade is then imprisoned along with Arsenal and begins to tell him about his past with Drago. Later, Drago takes a trip down memory lane with Slade, explaining how he lost his sight, and basically re-telling his origin and how it involved Jeremiah, right before he throws Slade beneath the complex to fend for his life against a crazed subhuman. During the fights, Slade's left eye was restored due to his metahuman healing factor, and the Titans arrive to rescue him. Slade and the Titans break into Drago's mansion and attack. Slade drugs Drago so that he cannot focus his telepathic powers. When Drago is defeated, Slade allows him to live and the Titans then leave his island. While returning to the labyrinth, Slade and the Titans are approached by the Atom and the Justice League, who attempt to arrest them for the murder of Ryan Choi.\nDuring the battle of Slade's Titans against the Justice League in Kahndaq, the battle was stopped by Isis, who forces them to choose between leaving or continuing the fight and starting \"World War III\". The Justice League chose to retreat and Slade retrieves a sample of Supergirl's Kryptonian blood. Upon returning to the labyrinth, with his workers, Doctor Sivana and Doctor Impossible, Slade reveals to the Titans that their efforts support creation of a diabolical invention called the \"Methuselah Device\" for his dying son Jericho.\nThe machine successfully heals Jericho, and Slade offers its abilities to all the Titans, offering to restore their deceased loved ones as payment for their services. All agree but Cinder, who does not want her brothers to live forever, as she claims to be doing. She attacks Cheshire and Osiris, and is then joined by Tattooed Man and Arsenal. As the Titans come to blows, Deathstroke attempts to take Jericho and leave, but Jericho, disgusted at what his father did to achieve his restoration, takes over his body, intending to destroy first the Methuselah Device, then himself and Deathstroke. While the Titans fight over the Methuselah Device, its power source, a metahuman named DJ Molecule, is released. Molecule blasts Slade, knocking Jericho out of his body. Arsenal then attacks him for stealing the Titans' legacy. Slade escapes and the Methuselah Device is destroyed by Cinder. Afterwards, Slade berates himself and becomes Deathstroke once more.\nThe New 52.\nIn 2011, \"The New 52\" rebooted the DC universe. Deathstroke is known as a top mercenary around the world. Deathstroke is hired by a man named Cristoph for a mission that forces him to work with a team of younger mercenaries known as the Alpha Dogs. Their target is Jeffrey Bode, an arms dealer traveling on a plane. After discovering that the weapons Bode is trafficking are clones of the villain Clayface, Deathstroke and the other mercenaries are able to dispatch them, killing Bode in the process and retrieving a suitcase he had in his possession. Deathstroke subsequently betrays and kills the Alpha Dogs, enraged by the notion that his employers feel that he is unable to accomplish his tasks alone. Deathstroke then begins to take on increasingly dangerous missions in an effort to prove his worth, but is also spurred on by the contents of the suitcase he retrieved from Bode \u2013 namely the mask and knife belonging to his son Grant, both of which were stained with fresh blood, indicating that he may be still alive. During this time, Deathstroke is pursued by a new villain known as Legacy. Deathstroke kills Legacy, but another Legacy, donning the same colors as the last one, appears again and again. It turns out the parents of one of the Alpha Dog members have hired multiple mercenaries to kill Deathstroke, all donning the green and purple color, to get revenge on him. Deathstroke tracks them down, but is confronted by his son Grant. It is revealed that all of this has been a plot to lure Deathstroke to him. Although Deathstroke manages to kill both the parents, Grant defeats him, claiming superiority over Deathstroke. Grant is about to finish Slade, but he hesitates, and leaves. Recovering from his injuries, Grant takes another contract, Slade is happy that his son has become a better warrior than him, and then visits his father's hospital bed to mention that he has grown up to be a greater man than him.\nSlade takes a contract from Harvest, to bring the Ravagers back to the colony. He does this in exchange for his daughter Rose and Terra. It turns out that Lynch, the leader of Team 7 had needed Terra to stop a rampaging Majestic, who was thought to be killed by Dinah Drake's sonic scream. For a plan B, to Slade's dismay, he calls in Joseph Wilson, now going by the name Jericho, with Adeline and Grant, to stop Majestic. Instead of stopping Majestic, Jericho takes control of Majestic, Adeline, Grant, and Terra to kill his father. Adeline dies, buried in the rubble caused by Majestic's stampede. Jericho momentarily loses control by this time, and Slade, Rose, and Terra manage to restrain Majestic, with the help of Rose's Gen-factor. However, Jericho retains control over Grant and Terra. When Slade knocks Terra unconscious, a cornered Jericho threatens to stab himself and Grant with a sword. Deathstroke, without hesitation, drives the sword into both of them, killing them instantly. But a later scene suggests Jericho has escaped, since there is shown a worker with glowing green eyes walking out of the clean-up scene, strongly implying Jericho has possessed the man to flee.\nOrigins.\nDeathstroke's altered origin is introduced in \"Deathstroke\" (vol. 2) #0. The fact that he participated in the military at 16 and met Adeline has not changed. Already a legend in the army, Slade was drafted into Team 7 and went on many missions. In one mission, Slade was gravely injured and had to undergo an operation that enhanced his abilities, making him virtually a superhuman. After this, he married Adeline and had two sons, Grant and Joseph. Around this time, Slade received intel that his best friend, Wintergreen, was caught in Somalia. He donned a mask and flew to Somalia to rescue Wintergreen, slaughtering all the captors. Deathstroke the Terminator was born. As his fame grew, his enemies did too. An attack targeting his house seemingly killed Joseph and Adeline. With evidence that the attack was from North Korea, Slade killed a group of North Korean soldiers, but lost his right eye in the process. It is later shown that Joseph and Adeline are still alive.\nThis origin was again changed in \"Teen Titans: Deathstroke\" #1. After a mission that involved destroying a children's hospital which Slade was unaware of, he quit the army. After Team 7's termination, Slade started to operate under the Deathstroke identity. He took Grant on his mission, considering him as not only his son, but as a business partner, and the only person he could trust. But during a mission in North Korea, their refuge was infiltrated and North Korean soldiers barged in, firing into the house. Grant was shot, and as Slade looked back at his son, a bullet penetrated his right eye, blinding it. Enraged, Slade went on a massacre and killed the soldiers. However, Grant was presumed dead. Now, Slade works for the sake of his daughter Rose, as he knows the only thing that will keep Rose safe after he is gone is money. It is unclear if Rose's mother is Adeline or not.\nTeam 7.\nFive years before taking the contract from Harvest, before taking the name Deathstroke, Slade once operated with \"Team 7\". With metahuman threats rising, \"The Majestic Project\", a plan to control future metahuman threats, was devised by John Lynch. And to secure the project, Team 7 was created and Slade was recruited. The first mission was retrieving the Eclipso Gem, where Slade was possessed by Eclipso and Alex Fairchild had to drive a sword through his chest to save him. Their next mission site is the Advanced Prosthetic Research Center. Hank Henshaw is tasked into reactivating the android Spartan. But the Spartan Subject is activated, infecting everyone in the center to be turned into mindless cyborgs, including Caitlin Fairchild. Team 7 is sent to the spot. Pilot Summer Ramos is killed by a cyborg. The team breaks into the facility, intending to bottleneck them. Caitlin appears out from a door. Relieved to see his daughter, Alex Fairchild rushes to her and hugs her, but actually infected, Caitlin stabs her father to death. In a fit of rage, Slade chases after her and dispatches her. Then from behind, Henshaw, temporarily free of the Spartan virus, explained that this was a distraction by the Spartan Subject to target agent James Bronson, currently at his home. A Spartan cyborg breaks into his apartment, and attacks, activating Majestic. Majestic actually turns out to be Bronson's Gen-factor, which was activated when the Kaizen, the dictator of the island nation of Gamorra, sent the cyborg to trigger the Majestic Persona. It is later explained by Lynch that another purpose of Team 7 was to activate potential metagenes in the agents to create powerful human weapons, which would make America invincible to other nations. Agents like Slade, Dinah Drake, and Cole Cash had gained their metahuman abilities by Lynch. Bronson was planned to be Majestic, but the activation of the gene just then had been unexpected.\nTeam 7's last mission was to salvage Pandora's Box. The Team, with new pilot Steve Trevor is sent to Gamorra. The Kaizen, who possessed Pandora's Box, prepared to unleash its power. When they reach the Kaizen's palace, the child precogs show the Team a future where Kaizen Gamorra has opened the Box and the whole world is going off the rails. Hearing the precogs say the Kaizen had to be stopped to prevent this fate, Majestic flies up into space, and impacts the coast of Gamorra with the force of a comet, creating a massive tidal wave, annihilating five million residents. But the Kaizen's palace stood however, and the team couldn't defeat him, until Majestic burst in. The Kaizen explains that Majestic is the key to opening the box, which also explains why he targeted Bronson in the first place. Majestic kills the Kaizen with a single blow. But he subdues to the Box's power, and starts attacking the team. Dinah lets out a canary cry that destroys the entire palace. In the chaos, Lynch is possessed by the box, but Amanda Waller knocks the box from his hands and tells Dinah to take the box away as far as possible. Lynch tries to take down the helicopter containing Dinah and the remaining team agents, but Waller shoots him from behind, seemingly killing Lynch and leading to Team 7's dissolution.\nForever Evil.\nDuring the \"Forever Evil\" storyline, Steve Trevor encounters Deathstroke, Copperhead, and Shadow Thief at the White House when he is looking for the President. Later, the party turns up in Wayne Industries with Power Ring to fight Batman, Lex Luthor, and other heroes and villains who are against the Crime Syndicate. Deathstroke has Luthor's life in his hands, but Luthor persuades him that it will do him no good if the Syndicate takes over the Earth. Slade has a change of mind and shoots Copperhead in the head, killing him. After they defeat the rest of the gang, Deathstroke remarks that Luthor ought to pay him a big fat check after this is over. Deathstroke then joins Batman and Luthor in the battle against the syndicate he is seen battling Deathstorm when the Syndicate attacks the fallen watchtower. The syndicate later retreats when they find out that Luthor has been freed. Deathstroke witnesses the only \"hero\" from Earth-Three kill Deathstorm and steal his abilities. Luthor then attacks Deathstroke, shattering his helmet while he lets out a string of obscenities directed at Luthor.\nDC Rebirth.\n\"DC Rebirth\" is a comic book publishing initiative launched by DC Comics in May 2016. It was designed to be a relaunch of the entire DC Comics line, following the conclusion of the \"New 52\" era that began in 2011. DC Rebirth aimed to bring back many of the classic elements and characters that had been missing or altered during the New 52 era, while also introducing new storylines and characters. The initiative featured a mix of ongoing series and limited series, with some series continuing from the New 52 era and others starting fresh with new creative teams.\nDeathstroke stars in an ongoing series about his exploits as a mercenary and his tumultuous relationship with his ex-wife and children as well introducing Hosun Park, Slade's son-in-law and hacker. During one such operation, he comes into contract with the Red Lion/Matthew Bland, the dictator of the African nation of Buredunia. Bland offers him a high sum for making sure his competition does not bring in US forces, and later takes one of Slade's Promethium suits for himself. Later, Slade attempts to save his son Grant from dying in battle with the Teen Titans by using Speed Force energy drained from Kid Flash (Ace West) to time travel. He becomes trapped in the Speed Force in the process, but is rescued by the Titans and Teen Titans. The experience moves him to give up being Deathstroke, so he builds a team of heroes called Defiance, with both his children, Wintergreen, Adeline Kane, and Ace as his teammates. It was later disbanded after Power Girl took her own life, and Slade's attempts have grown worse to himself.\nDeathstroke was later imprisoned in Arkham Asylum, though he escapes and is later captured by Damian Wayne's new roster of Teen Titans. In a bid to fulfill his death-wish, he releases all the inmates that Robin had been locking up illegally to attack the group. He tried to goad Damian into killing him, but he was instead killed by Red Arrow. Shortly afterwards, a funeral was held by all the villains. At his funeral, Raptor gave Slade's body leprosy, which sent his healing ability into overdrive and resurrected him. He took his resurrection as a second chance in life and went into hiding as a doctor.\nInfinite Frontier.\nDeathstroke teamed up with Black Canary to work with an organization called T.R.U.S.T. They both realized that the organization was led by Secret Society of Super Villains and Deathstroke kicks Black Canary out to take control of it, naming it Deathstroke Inc. He meets Rose Wilson and Respawn, a boy made from his and Talia's DNA who resembled Damian Wayne. He was framed for Ra's al Ghul's murder by Geo-Force who wanted revenge on Talia and Deathstroke. During the conflict, Deathstroke is killed by Talia, but is resurrected by his followers using a Lazarus Pit.\nIn \"Dark Crisis\", Deathstroke is possessed by the Great Darkness and attempts to destroy the multiverse. He is eventually defeated and has the Darkness exorcised from his body, losing his powers in the process. Deathstroke is hospitalized in the Hall of Justice, but Terra deactivates his life support and leaves him to die. He is later revealed to be alive.\nCharacterization.\nChristopher Priest, the writer of Deathstroke's self-titled solo series in \"DC Rebirth\", has said:\nDeathstroke is widely regarded as one of the most feared and deadly professional assassins in the world with a considerable seven figure fee and a six figure deposit. He is infamous for completing nearly all of his contracts, having only failed his contract with H.I.V.E. to kill the Teen Titans. He uses his resources to hire lawyers to prevent law enforcement from proving that Slade Wilson and Deathstroke are the same person. Deathstroke has been described as being emotionally crippled, believing everyone else to be \"idiots\" and struggling to commit despite desperately loving his children and desiring closeness with them. He is a poor father and often suffers from past choices made between his children and wife, Adeline.\nPowers and abilities.\nSlade Wilson was given an experimental super-soldier serum that increased his physical and mental abilities to superhuman levels, granting him enhanced strength, speed, stamina, agility, durability, reflexes, and senses. Deathstroke also possesses a healing factor that allows him to recover from injuries at an accelerated rate. Despite stating that he can only heal non-fatal injuries, he has shown to heal from severe organ trauma such as impalement and bullet wounds to the brain. These regenerative abilities have given him a slowed aging process and extended longevity, in addition to a resistance to toxins. While Deathstroke was originally stated to be able to use up to 90% of his brain's capacity, it was later clarified that his brain processes information nine times more efficiently than an ordinary human's. Deathstroke also has an eidetic memory and has been described as a tactical genius with a strategic mind rivaling that of Batman.\nEven prior to acquiring his powers, Deathstroke mastered numerous hand-to-hand combat and martial art forms as well as swordsmanship and marksmanship as part of his elite training in the military. His arsenal of weapons include various swords, firearms, knives, and a ballistic staff capable of firing bolts of energy from each end."}
{"id": "715020", "revid": "45215721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715020", "title": "EFL League Two", "text": "The English Football League Two, simply known as League Two and for sponsorship purposes as Sky Bet League Two, is a professional association football league in England. EFL League Two is the third division of the English Football League (EFL) and the fourth-highest tier in the English football league system, after the Premier League, EFL Championship and the EFL League One. The EFL League Two is contested by 24 clubs.\nIntroduced for the 2004\u201305 English football season as Football League Two, it is a rebrand of the former Football League Third Division.\nAs of the 2025\u201326 season, Newport County hold the longest tenure in this division following their promotion in the 2012\u201313 season. There are currently two former Premier League clubs competing in this division: Oldham Athletic (1992\u201394) and Swindon Town (1993\u201394).\nThe current holders are Doncaster Rovers.\nStructure.\nThere are 24 clubs in this division. Each club plays each of the other clubs twice (once at home and once away) for a total of 46 matches per season and is awarded three points for a win, one for a draw and no points for a loss. From these points a league table is constructed.\nAt the end of each season the top three teams, together with the winner of the play-offs between the teams which finished in the fourth to seventh positions, are promoted to EFL League One and are replaced by the four teams that finished at the bottom of that division.\nSimilarly, the two teams that finished at the bottom of League Two are relegated to the National League and are replaced by the team that finished first and the team that won the second through seventh place play-off in that division. Technically a team can be reprieved from relegation if the team replacing them does not have a ground suitable for League football, but in practice this is a non-factor because every team currently in the National League has a ground that meets the League criteria (and even if they did not, a ground-sharing arrangement with another team could be made until their stadium was upgraded). The other way that a team can be spared relegation is if another team either resigns or is expelled from the EFL.\nFinal league position is determined, in order, by points obtained, goal difference, goals scored, a mini-league of the results between two or more teams ranked using the previous three criteria, and finally a series of one or more play-off matches.\nThere is a mandatory wage cap in this division that limits spending on players' wages to 55% of club turnover.\nAttendances.\nAs of June 2023, League Two is the most watched fourth-tier domestic sports league in the world, and the 14th most watched football league in Europe of any tier. The total number of spectators who watched a League Two game in the 2023\u201324 season was 3,458,968.\nSince the restructuring into League Two in 2004, the average attendance across all seasons is 4,602. The highest average attendance was 6,274 in the 2023\u201324 season. The highest average attendance for an individual club was achieved in the 2022\u201323; 17,967 for Bradford City. The lowest average attendance was 3,856 in the 2009\u201310 season.\nHistoric performance.\nSince the restructuring into League Two in 2004, 69 teams have spent at least one season in the division, including 2 of the 20 teams in the 2025\u201326 Premier League. \nMorecambe have spent the longest in League Two; 16 seasons in total, as well as having had the joint-longest spell in the division, 13 consecutive seasons between 2005 and 2019. Newport County have the current longest tenure, with 13 consecutive seasons.\nNorthampton Town and Bristol Rovers have each been promoted four times from League Two. There have been 18 different champions, with Swindon Town and Chesterfield champions on two occasions. 23 teams have been both promoted and relegated from League Two.\nKey"}
{"id": "715027", "revid": "24648867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715027", "title": "List of national parks in the Baltics", "text": "This is a list of the national parks in the Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.\nEstonia.\nThere are 6 national parks in Estonia.\nLatvia.\nThere are 4 national parks in Latvia.\nLithuania.\nThere are 5 national parks in Lithuania. They were established in 1991 after Lithuania declared independence from the Soviet Union in 1990. Lithuanian SSR National Park established in 1974 was reorganized and renamed Auk\u0161taitija National Park. Now they cover about 2.3 percent of Lithuania's territory."}
{"id": "715028", "revid": "28743195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715028", "title": "Chain (unit)", "text": "The chain (abbreviated ch) is a unit of length equal to 66 feet (22 yards), used in both the US customary and Imperial unit systems. It is subdivided into 100 links. There are 10 chains in a furlong, and 80 chains in one statute mile. In metric terms, it is 20.1168\u00a0m long. By extension, chainage (running distance) is the distance along a curved or straight survey line from a fixed commencing point, as given by an odometer.\nThe chain has been used since the early 17th century in England, and was taken by British settlers during the colonial period to other countries around the globe. In the United Kingdom, there were 80 chains to the mile, but until the early nineteenth century the Scottish and Irish customary miles were longer than the statute mile; consequently a Scots chain was about 74 (imperial) feet, an Irish chain 84 feet. These longer chains became obsolete following the adoption of the imperial system of units in 1824. In India, \"metric chains\" of exactly are used, along with fractions thereof.\nDefinition.\nThe UK statute chain is 22 yards, which is . This unit is a statute measure in the United Kingdom, defined in the Weights and Measures Act 1985. One link is a hundredth part of a chain, which is .\nThe surveyor's chain first appears in an illustration in a Dutch map of 1607, and in an English book for surveyors of 1610. In 1593 the English mile was redefined by a statute of Queen Elizabeth I as 5,280 feet, to tie in with agricultural practice. In 1620, the polymath Edmund Gunter developed a method of accurately surveying land using a surveyor's chain 66\u00a0feet long with 100 links. The 66-foot unit, which was four perches or rods, took on the name the chain. By 1675 it was accepted, and Ogilby wrote:\nFrom Gunter's system, the chain and the link became standard surveyors' units of length and crossed to the colonies. The thirteen states of America were expanding westward and the public land had to be surveyed for a cadastral. In 1784 Thomas Jefferson wrote a report for the Continental Congress proposing the rectangular survey system; it was adopted with some changes as the Land Ordinance of 1785 on 20 May the following year. In the report, the use of the chain as a unit of measurement was mandated, and the chain was defined. \nModern use and historic cultural references.\nUnited Kingdom.\nIn the United Kingdom, the chain is no longer used for practical survey work. However, it is still used on the railways as a location identifier. When railways were designed, the location of features such as bridges and stations was indicated by a cumulative longitudinal \"mileage\", using miles and chains, from a zero point at the origin or headquarters of the railway, or the originating junction of a new branch line. Since railways are linear in topology, the \"mileage\" or \"chainage\" is sufficient to identify a place uniquely on any given route. Thus, a given bridge location may be indicated as 112 miles and 63 chains (181.51\u00a0km) from the origin. In the case of the photograph, the bridge is near Keynsham, which is that distance from London Paddington station. The indication \"MLN\" after the mileage is the Engineer's Line Reference describing the route as the Great Western Main Line, which is needed to uniquely determine the bridge, as there may be points at 112 miles 63 chains on other routes.\nOn new railway lines built in the United Kingdom such as High Speed 1, the position along the alignment is still referred to as \"chainage\", although the value is now expressed in metres.\nNorth America.\nThe use of the chain was mandatory in laying out US townships. A federal law was passed in 1785 (the Public Land Survey Ordinance) that all official government surveys must be done with a Gunter's (surveyor's) chain. Chains and links are commonly encountered in older metes and bounds legal descriptions. Distances on township plat maps made by the US General Land Office are shown in chains.\nUnder the US Public Land Survey System, parcels of land are often described in terms of the section (), quarter-section (), and quarter-quarter-section (). Respectively, these square divisions of land are approximately 80 chains (one mile or 1.6\u00a0km), 40 chains (half a mile or 800\u00a0m), and 20 chains (a quarter mile or 400\u00a0m) on a side.\nThe chain is still used in agriculture: measuring wheels with a circumference of 0.1 chain (diameter \u2248 2.1\u00a0ft or 64\u00a0cm) are still readily available in Canada and the United States. For a rectangular tract, multiplying the number of turns of a chain wheel for each of two adjacent sides and dividing by 1,000 gives the area in acres.\nIn Canada, road allowances were originally 1 chain wide and are now 20 metres.\nThe unit was also used in mapping the United States along train routes in the 19th century. Railroads in the United States have long since used decimal fractions of a mile. Some subways such as the New York City Subway and the Washington Metro were designed with and continue with a chaining system using the 100-foot engineer's chain.\nIn the United States, the chain is also used as the measure of the rate of spread of wildfires (chains per hour), both in the predictive National Fire Danger Rating System as well as in after-action reports. The term \"chain\" is used by wildland firefighters in day-to-day operations as a unit of distance.\nAustralia and New Zealand.\nIn Australia and New Zealand, most building lots in the past were a quarter of an acre, measuring one chain by two and a half chains, and other lots would be multiples or fractions of a chain. The street frontages of many houses in these countries are one chain wide\u2014roads were almost always wide in urban areas, sometimes or . Laneways would be half a chain (10.1\u00a0m). In rural areas the roads were wider, up to where a stock route was required. roads were surveyed as major roads or highways between larger towns, roads between smaller localities, and roads were local roads in farming communities. Roads named Three Chain Road etc. persist today.\nThe \"Queen's Chain\" is a concept that has long existed in New Zealand, of a strip of public land, usually 20 metres (or one chain in pre-metric measure) wide from the high water mark, that has been set aside for public use along the coast, around many lakes, and along all or part of many rivers. These strips exist in various forms (including road reserves, esplanade reserves, esplanade strips, marginal strips and reserves of various types) but not as extensively and consistently as is often assumed.\nCricket pitches.\nThe chain also survives as the length of a cricket pitch, being the distance between the stumps.\nMeasuring instruments.\nCivil engineers and surveyors use various instruments including chains to measure distance. Other instruments used for measuring distance include tapes and bands. A steel band is also known as a \"band chain\".\nSurveyors' chain (Gunter's chain).\nIn 1620, the polymath Edmund Gunter developed a method of accurately surveying land using a 100 link chain, 22 yards (66 feet) long, called the Gunter's Chain. Other surveyors chains have been used historically.\nEngineer's chain (Ramsden's chain).\nA longer chain of , with a hundred links, was devised in the UK in the late 18th century by Jesse Ramsden, though it never supplanted Gunter's chain. Surveyors also sometimes used such a device, and called it the \"engineer's chain\".\nor Texas chain.\nIn the Southwestern United States, the \" chain\" also called the \"Texas chain\", of 20 () was used in surveying Spanish and later Mexican land grants, such as the major Fisher\u2013Miller and Paisano Grants in Texas, several similarly large ones in New Mexico, and over 200 smaller in California.\nMetric chains.\nMetric chains, of lengths 5\u00a0m, 10\u00a0m, 20\u00a0m and 30\u00a0m, are widely used in India. Tolerances are \u00b13\u00a0mm for 5\u00a0m and 10\u00a0m chains, \u00b15\u00a0mm for a 20\u00a0m chain, and \u00b18\u00a0mm for a 30\u00a0m chain.\nRevenue chain.\nIn India, a revenue chain with 16 links and of length is used in cadastral surveys.\nOther instruments.\nAlso in North America, a variant of the chain is used in forestry for traverse surveys. This modern chain is a static cord (thin rope) 50 metres long, marked with a small tag at each metre, and also marked in the first metre every decimetre. When working in dense bush, a short axe or hatchet is commonly tied to the end of the chain, and thrown through the bush in the direction of the traverse.\nAnother version used extensively in forestry and surveying is the \"hip-chain\": a small box containing a string counter, worn on the hip. The user ties off the spooled string to a stake or tree and the counter tallies distance as the user walks away in a straight line. These instruments are available in both feet and metres."}
{"id": "715031", "revid": "38173635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715031", "title": "Nevelsky District", "text": "Nevelsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715035", "revid": "38534733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715035", "title": "The Casualties", "text": "The Casualties are an American punk rock band from New York City, founded by vocalist Jorge Herrera, Hank Fischer (guitar), Colin Wolf (vocals), Mark Yoshitomi (bass) and Yureesh Hooker (drums) in 1990. In July 2017, it was announced on the band's Facebook page that original frontman Jorge Herrera had officially retired from touring. As of 2022, the band consists of members Jake Kolatis (guitarist), Marc Meggers (drums), Doug Wellmon (bass), and David Rodriguez (vocals).\nHistory.\nEarly years (1990\u20131998).\nThe Casualties were formed in 1990, with original members Jorge Herrera (vocals), Hank (guitar), Colin Wolf (vocals), Mark Yoshitomi (bass) and Yureesh Hooker (drums). The members aimed to return to what they viewed as the \"golden era\" of street punk, embodied by bands such as The Exploited and Charged GBH, which they believed had disappeared by 1985. During the early years, the lineup was fluid, with several changes.\nIn early 1991, Hank left the band and was replaced by Fred Backus on guitar to record \"Political Sin\" in March 1991 for the \"Benefit for Beer\" compilation. Soon more changes were in the works, with new guitarist Fred heading off to school. C Squat's Scott temporarily filled Fred's shoes until he returned a short time later. During this period, guitarist Hank filled in for a couple of shows, and Steve Distraught also played briefly with the group on second guitar. \nThe Casualties stabilized long enough to record their first demo in the fall of 1991, and the \u201c40 Oz Casualty\u201d EP in the spring of 1992, and was building up a fan base in their hometown of New York City. At the end of 1992, Mark and Fred left the band and were replaced by Mike Roberts on bass and Jake Kolatis on the guitar, followed by the departure of Yureesh and Colin in 1994, to be replaced on drums by Shawn, while the band went down to a single vocalist. 1994 saw the recording of the four-song EP, \"Drinking Is Our Way of Life;\" however, it would not be released. The songs would later appear on the Casualties \"The Early Years: 1990-1995\" album in 1999. In 1995, the band's second release, the four-track \"A Fuckin' Way of Life\" EP was released on Eyeball Records. After recording \"A Fuckin' Way of Life,\" Shawn left the band, and Marc Eggers (nicknamed Meggers) of the Rivits became the regular drummer. The line-up of Jorge, Jake, Mike and Meggers continued until 1997.\nIn 1996 the Casualties became the first American band to appear at the \"Holidays in the Sun\" Festival in London. 1997 saw the release of the band's debut album \"For the Punx\" on Tribal War Records, and the band embarked on its first American tour with The Varukers. Mike (the bassist) left the band in 1998, to be replaced with Johnny Rosado, from The Krays. They released their second LP that year, \"Underground Army,\" and began a world tour. Jon left the band during the European leg of the tour, to be temporarily replaced by Dave Punk Core.\nLater years (1998\u20132017).\nAfter the world tour, Dave would be replaced by Rick Lopez from the band Manix. The line-up was now solidified for the band. The end of the millennium, 1999, saw the band produce a compilation album, \"Early Years 1990\u20131995\", which included tracks which appeared on earlier EPs, as well as never before released songs, such as the four songs they had recorded on the never released EP \"Drinking Is Our Way of Life\" back in 1994.\nThe 2000s have seen the band to continue to tour and produce albums (an album list can be seen below). They have toured with several other bands, such as The Exploited, GBH, Cockney Rejects, Slaughter &amp; the Dogs, and the English Dogs. In December 2009, The Casualties toured alongside Hatebreed, The Acacia Strain, Crowbar, and Thy Will Be Done as part of the Stillborn Fest. In the summer of 2012, The Casualties co-headlined the Tonight We Unite tour along with Nekromantix, where they played For the Punx in its entirety, the first time they had played the album through since its release in 1997. Later that year, The Casualties released their new album titled \"Resistance\" through Season of Mist. In 2013, The Casualties played at the largest punk rock festival in the world, the Rebellion Festival in Blackpool, England, where they shared the stage with The Exploited, Special Duties, Chron Gen and Anti-Establishment, and others.\n\"Chaos Sound\", departure of Herrera, and new member (2016\u20132022).\nOn January 22, 2016, the band released their tenth studio album titled \"Chaos Sound\". The album was recorded in Orange County, California at Buzzbomb Studio, produced by Paul Miner and released by Season of Mist. It is the last album to feature original vocalist Jorge Herrera.\nWhile no longer associating with The Casualties, there have been no incidents to indicate that there is any bad blood between Herrera and the remaining or current members of The Casualties. Frontman of The Krum Bums, David Rodriguez officially replaced Herrera, changing the band's line-up for the first time in 19 years. Guitarist Jake Kolatis and drummer Meggers are the two remaining long term members of the band.\nDeparture of Rick Lopez, and new member (2022\u2013present).\nOn October 7, 2022, Rick Lopez announced on his Instagram account that he would be taking a \"-needed break\" and starting a new life, without giving further details about his departure from the band. The Casualties' official account, when consulted by Rick, only limited itself to saying that he was no longer a member of the band. Neither party provided details of his departure but they continue to interact on social media.\nOn December 1, 2025, the band announced their official signing to Hellcat Records, and a new album to be released in 2026."}
{"id": "715036", "revid": "46164538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715036", "title": "EFL League One", "text": "The English Football League One, known as Sky Bet League One for sponsorship reasons, or simply League One, is a professional association football league in England. EFL League One is the second-highest division of the English Football League and the third tier overall in the English football league system, after the Premier League and the EFL Championship. It is contested by 24 clubs.\nIntroduced in the 2004\u201305 English football season as Football League One, it is a rebrand of the former Football League Second Division.\nBurton Albion currently hold the longest tenure in the division following relegation from the Championship at the end of the 2017\u201318 season. There are nine former Premier League clubs currently competing in this division: Barnsley (1997\u201398), Blackpool (2010\u201311), Bolton Wanderers (1995\u201396, 1997\u201398, and 2001\u201312), Bradford City (1999\u20132001), Cardiff City (2013-14 and 2018-19), Huddersfield Town (2017\u201319), Luton Town (2023\u201324), Reading (2006\u201308 and 2012\u201313), and Wigan Athletic (2005\u201313).\nStructure.\nThere are 24 clubs in this division. Each club plays each of the others twice. Three points are awarded for a win, one for a draw, and none for a loss. At the end of the season a table of the final League standings is determined, based on the following criteria in this order: points obtained, goal difference, goals scored, an aggregate of the results between two or more clubs (ranked using the previous three criteria), most matches won, most goals scored away from home, fewest \"penalty points\" based on yellow and red cards received, followed by fewest straight red cards for certain offences. If two or more teams are still tied after examining all of these criteria, they will share the higher place between them. The only exception would be if the tied teams span the boundary between 2nd and 3rd, 6th and 7th, or 20th and 21st place, in which case one or more play-off matches would be arranged between the tied clubs.\nAt the end of each season the top two clubs, together with the winner of the play-offs between the clubs which finished in the third to sixth positions, are promoted to the EFL Championship and are replaced by the three clubs that finished at the bottom of that division.\nSimilarly, the four clubs that finished at the bottom of EFL League One are relegated to EFL League Two and are replaced by the top three clubs and the club that won the fourth to seventh place play-offs in that division.\nRelegated teams.\nExpelled in August 2019 after financial breaches.\nTop scorers.\nIn 35 games. Season truncated because of coronavirus.\nAttendances.\nEFL League One is the most-watched third-tier domestic sports league in the world, with an average of 10,613 spectators per game in the 2022\u201323 season, also making it one of the top ten most watched leagues in Europe. The closest third-tier association football league in terms of average attendance is the Germany 3. Liga (8,219). \nThe highest average attendance since the restructure into League One was the 2022\u201323 season, when over 5.3 million spectators watched games, with an average of 10,613 per game. The highest average attendance by a single club was Sunderland in the 2018\u201319 season with 32,157. They also set the League One attendance record for a single game in the same season, when 46,039 spectators attended the Boxing Day game against Bradford City.\nHistoric performance.\nSince the restructuring into League One in 2004, 78 teams have spent at least one season in the division, including 7 of the 20 teams in the 2025\u201326 Premier League. Milton Keynes Dons has spent 15 seasons in League One, the most of any team. Oldham Athletic's single 14-season consecutive spell was the longest of any team. The team with the current longest tenure is Burton Albion, who will be in their eighth consecutive season in the division, having been in League One since the 2018\u201319 season. Rotherham United have had the highest number of separate spells in League One with six. There have been 18 different Champions of League One, with Wigan Athletic having won the division three times.\nKey\nFinancial Fair Play.\nBeginning with the 2012\u201313 season, a Financial Fair Play arrangement has been in place in all three divisions of the Football League, the intention being eventually to produce a league of financially self-sustaining clubs. In League One, this takes the form of a Salary Cost Management Protocol in which a maximum of 60% of a club's turnover may be spent on players' wages, with sanctions being applied in the form of transfer embargoes."}
{"id": "715038", "revid": "30770618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715038", "title": "Nikolayevsky District", "text": "Nikolayevsky District may refer to:"}
{"id": "715041", "revid": "16528617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715041", "title": "M\u00e1jiong", "text": ""}
{"id": "715043", "revid": "16528618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715043", "title": "Majiong", "text": ""}
{"id": "715044", "revid": "1273126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715044", "title": "Nikolsky District", "text": "Nikolsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715048", "revid": "31793797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715048", "title": "Atlee Pomerene", "text": "Atlee Pomerene (December 6, 1863 \u2013 November 12, 1937) was an American Democratic Party politician and lawyer from Ohio. He served as Lieutenant Governor of Ohio for a few months in 1911 and then represented Ohio in the United States Senate from 1911 until 1923.\nEarly life.\nAtlee Pomerene was born on December 6, 1863, in Berlin, Holmes County, Ohio, to Elizabeth and Peter P. Pomerene. He graduated with high honors from Princeton University in 1884. He graduated from the University of Cincinnati College of Law in 1886 and was admitted to the bar in Ohio.\nCareer.\nIn 1886, he began practicing law with Charles R. Miller in Canton, Ohio. He then entered a partnership with Judge Robert S. Shields in the firm Shields and Pomerene. He then organized the firm Pomerene, Ambler and Pomerene with Ralph Ambler and his brother Celsus Pomerene. From 1887 to 1901, he served as the city solicitor of Canton. He then worked as prosecutor of Stark County from 1897 to 1900. He prosecuted the homicide case against Anna George for the murder of George Saxton, brother of Ida Saxton McKinley. In 1906, he was appointed a member of the honorary tax commission of Ohio by Governor Andrew L. Harris. In 1910, he was chairman of the state Democratic convention.\nAfter serving in a variety of city, county, and state positions as solicitor and prosecutor, Pomerene was elected the 31st lieutenant governor of Ohio in 1910. He briefly served in the post until January 19, 1911, when he was elected by the State Legislature to the U.S. Senate, succeeding Charles W. F. Dick. In 1913, he was a member of the Senate Banking Currency Commission and assisted in developing the legislation to create the Federal Reserve. Pomerene was re-elected in 1916, defeating Myron T. Herrick. He narrowly lost a bid for a third term six years later to Simeon D. Fess. He ran again the following election, but lost to Frank B. Willis. In 1923, he joined the law firm Squire, Sanders and Dempsey of Cleveland. In March 1923, President Warren Harding named him to the 5th Pan-American Conference held in Santiago, Chile. He was a Democrat.\nPomerene was appointed by President Calvin Coolidge alongside Owen Roberts to serve as a special prosecutor to deal with the Teapot Dome scandal. He ran unsuccessfully for the other U.S. Senate seat from Ohio in 1926 and for the Democratic nomination to the U.S. presidency in 1928. On August 1, 1932, President Herbert Hoover appointed Pomerene to succeed Charles G. Dawes as head of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation after Dawes' sudden resignation on June 7. He served in that role until his retirement on March 4, 1933.\nPomerene then continued practicing law in Cleveland.\nPersonal life.\nPomerene married Mary H. Bockius, daughter of L. V. Bockius, of Canton on June 29, 1892.\nPomerene died following pneumonia and a stroke in Cleveland on November 12, 1937, and was buried in Westlawn Cemetery in Canton.\nAwards and legacy.\nPomerene received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Miami University, Wooster University and Mount Union College. He also received an honorary degree from Kenyon College."}
{"id": "715051", "revid": "39191556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715051", "title": "Ard\u0101s", "text": "The Ard\u0101s (, pronunciation: ) is a set prayer in Sikhism. It is a part of worship service in a Gurdwara (Sikh temple), daily rituals such as the opening the \"Guru Granth Sahib\" for \"prakash\" (morning light) or closing it for \"sukhasan\" (night bedroom) in larger Gurdwaras, closing of congregational worship in smaller Gurdwaras, rites-of-passages such as with the naming of child or the cremation of a loved one, daily prayer by devout Sikhs and any significant Sikh ceremonies. \nAn Ardas consists of three parts. The first part recites the virtues of the ten Gurus of Sikhism from Guru Nanak to Guru Gobind Singh, starting with lines from \"Chandi di Var\" from the \"Dasam Granth\". The second part recites the trials and triumphs of the Khalsa and petition. The third salutes the divine name. The first and the third part are set and cannot be changed, while the second part may vary, be shortened and include a supplication such as seeking divine help or blessing in dealing with daily problems, but is usually in agreed form. While it is sung, the audience or the Sikh devotee typically stands, with folded hands, many with bowed headed, with some typically saying \"Waheguru\" after certain sections.\nArdas is attributed to Guru Gobind Singh, the founder of the Khalsa and the 10th Guru of Sikhism.\nEtymology.\nThe root of the word Ardas is related to the Sanskrit word () which means \"request, ask, beg\". It is also related to the Persian word which means a written \"petition made by an inferior to a superior\".\nStructure.\nThe Ard\u0101s is usually always done standing up with folded hands and is commonly preceded by the eighth stanza of the fourth ashtapadi of the bani Sukhmani, beginning \"Tu Thakur Tum Peh Ardaas\". It consists of three parts:\nThe end of the Ardaas (\"Nanak Nam Chardi Kala, Tere Bhane Sarbat Da Bala\", \"O Nanak, may the Nam (Holy) be ever in ascendance! in Thy will may the good of all prevail!\") is also set and may not be altered or omitted.\nOrigins.\nThe \"Ard\u0101s\" of Sikhism was first composed by Guru Gobind Singh. He fixed the first eight lines and the last section, and these are considered unalterable in Sikhism. The second section has been fluid, revised extensively and particularly by Tat Khalsa in the 20th century. The Sikh Rahit Maryada has published an approved version of the entire Ardas."}
{"id": "715054", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715054", "title": "Richard L. Thornburgh", "text": ""}
{"id": "715063", "revid": "63601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715063", "title": "3-cube", "text": ""}
{"id": "715066", "revid": "8903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715066", "title": "Teletransportation", "text": ""}
{"id": "715070", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715070", "title": "Charles W. F. Dick", "text": "Charles William Frederick Dick (November 3, 1858 \u2013 March 13, 1945) was a Republican politician from Ohio. He served in the United States House of Representatives and U.S. Senate.\nEarly life.\nBorn in Akron, Ohio, his parents were Gottlieb Dick (a Scots/German immigrant), and Magdalena or \"Lena\" (Von Handel) Dick, who immigrated to the United States from Heidelberg, Germany. On June 30, 1881, Dick married Carrie May Peterson, the daughter of Dr. James Holman Peterson and Caroline Van Evera. They had five children: James, Lucius, Carl, Grace (Mrs. Edgar Williams) and Dorothy (Mrs. William Robinson). Dick was a Scottish Rite Mason, Odd Fellow, and Knight of Pythias.\nCareer.\nEarly career.\n\"Charley\" Dick was educated in Akron, and worked at several stores and banks. In 1886, he was the successful Republican nominee for Summit County auditor, and he was re-elected in 1888. He also read law, and was admitted to the bar in 1894. Dick was a delegate to the 1892, 1896 and 1900 Republican National Conventions. He was elected Chairman of the Ohio Republican Party in 1887 and 1891, and served as the Secretary of the Republican National Committee from 1896 to 1900.\nMilitary career.\nIn November 1885 Dick joined the Ohio Army National Guard as a private in Company B, 8th Ohio Infantry Regiment, and he was commissioned as a first lieutenant a few days later. His regiment volunteered for service in the Spanish\u2013American War, and Dick served in Cuba as a major and lieutenant colonel. He continued his military service after the war, and attained the rank of major general as head of the Ohio National Guard. From 1902 to 1909 he was president of the National Guard Association of the United States.\nCongressional career.\nHe was elected to the United States House of Representatives by a special election in 1898 to fill a vacancy created by the death of Stephen A. Northway, serving the .\nDick was Chairman of the Militia Committee, and sponsored the Militia Act of 1903 (the Dick Act). This act codified the circumstances under which the National Guard in each state could be federalized, provided federal resources for equipping and training the National Guard, and required National Guard units to organize and meet the same readiness requirements as the regular Army.\nDick served until he resigned in 1904, having been elected to the Senate to fill the vacancy created by the death of Marcus A. Hanna.\nIn the Senate he served as chairman of the Mining Committee and the Committee on Indian Depredations. He also was the head of a Congressional Committee which investigated hazing at the United States Military Academy. He served until 1911, when he lost a bid for a second term.\nWhile in Congress, he became one of the largest stockholders in the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, and served as a vice president and member of the board of directors.\nLater career.\nDick practiced law after leaving the Senate, and pursued a successful business career, including ownership of the Franklin Square Hotel in Washington, D.C., and the Hotel Chatham in New York City.\nHe ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. House in 1918, losing to Martin L. Davey. In 1922 he was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican U.S. Senate nomination, losing to Simeon D. Fess.\nRetirement, death and burial.\nFrom 1941 until his death in Akron on March 13, 1945, Dick was the oldest living former US Senator. He was buried in Akron's Glendale Cemetery.\nLegacy.\nSince 1988 the National Guard Association of the United States presents the annual Charles Dick Medal of Merit to recognize support for the National Guard by state and federal legislators.\nExternal links.\n Retrieved on 2009-05-16"}
{"id": "715071", "revid": "49736723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715071", "title": "Oktyabrsky District, Russia", "text": "Oktyabrsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal divisions in Russia. The districts are generally named for the October Revolution of 1917."}
{"id": "715073", "revid": "1273126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715073", "title": "Orlovsky District", "text": "Orlovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The name is generally derived from or is related to the root \"oryol\" (\"eagle\")."}
{"id": "715074", "revid": "42522270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715074", "title": "Osinsky District", "text": "Osinsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715076", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715076", "title": "Prelude To Foundation", "text": ""}
{"id": "715078", "revid": "43148149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715078", "title": "Ostrovsky District", "text": "Ostrovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715079", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715079", "title": "Tropic of capricorn", "text": ""}
{"id": "715080", "revid": "62425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715080", "title": "Russell Group of Universities", "text": ""}
{"id": "715084", "revid": "12270500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715084", "title": "Partizansky District, Russia", "text": "Partizansky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715085", "revid": "7777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715085", "title": "Milo of Kroton", "text": ""}
{"id": "715089", "revid": "51177506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715089", "title": "Church service", "text": "A church service (or a worship service) is a formalized period of Christian communal worship, often held in a church building. Most Christian denominations hold church services on the Lord's Day (offering Sunday morning and Sunday evening services); a number of traditions have mid-week services, while some traditions worship on a Saturday. In some Christian denominations, church services are held daily, with these including those in which the seven canonical hours are prayed, as well as the offering of the Mass, among other forms of worship. In addition to this, many Christians attend services on holy days such as Christmas, Ash Wednesday, Good Friday, Ascension Thursday, among others depending on the Christian denomination.\nThe church service is the gathering together of Christians to be taught the \"Word of God\" (the Christian Bible) and encouraged in their faith. Technically, the \"church\" in \"church service\" refers to the gathering of the faithful rather than to the physical place in which it takes place. In most Christian traditions services are presided over by clergy wherever possible, but some traditions utilize lay preachers. Styles of service vary greatly, from the Catholic, Lutheran, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Reformed (Continental Reformed, Presbyterian and Congregationalist) and Anglican traditions of liturgical worship to informal worship characterized by certain free church traditions, common among Methodists and Baptists, that often combine worship with teaching for the believers, which may also have an evangelistic component appealing to backsliders and the non-Christians in the congregation (cf. altar call). Quakers and some other groups have no formal outline to their services, but allow the worship to develop as the participants present feel moved.\nHistory.\nThe worship service is a practice of Christian life that has its origins in Jewish worship. Jesus Christ and Paul of Tarsus taught a new form of worship of God. As recorded in the gospels, Jesus met together with his disciples to share teachings, discuss topics, pray, and sing hymns. The holding of church services pertains to the observance of the Lord's Day in Christianity.\nThe Old Testament set a precedent for a pattern of morning and evening worship that later gave rise to Sunday morning and Sunday evening services of worship held in the churches of many Christian denominations today, providing a \"structure to help families sanctify the Lord's Day\". For example, in and , \"God commanded the daily offerings in the tabernacle to be made once in the morning and then again at twilight\". In Psalm 92, which is a prayer concerning the observance of the Sabbath, the author writes that \"It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High; to declare your steadfast love in the morning, and your faithfulness by night\" (cf. Psalm 134:1). Church father Eusebius of Caesarea thus declared: \"For it is surely no small sign of God's power that throughout the whole world in the churches of God at the morning rising of the sun and at the evening hours, hymns, praises, and truly divine delights are offered to God. God's delights are indeed the hymns sent up everywhere on earth in his Church at the times of morning and evening.\"\nThe first miracle of the Apostles, the healing of the crippled man on the temple steps, occurred because Peter and John went to the Temple to pray (Acts 3:1). Since the Apostles were originally Jews, the concept of fixed prayer times, as well as services therefore which differed from weekday to Sabbath to holy day, were familiar to them. Pliny the Younger (63 \u2013 ), who was not a Christian himself, mentions not only fixed prayer times by believers, but also specific services\u2014other than the Eucharist\u2014assigned to those times: \"They met on a stated day before it was light, and addressed a form of prayer to Christ, as to a divinity[...] after which it was their custom to separate, and then reassemble, to eat in common a harmless meal.\"\nThe real evolution of the Christian service in the first century is shrouded in mystery. By the second and third centuries, such Church Fathers as Clement of Alexandria, Origen, and Tertullian wrote of formalised, regular services: the practice of Morning and Evening Prayer, and prayers at the third hour of the day (terce), the sixth hour of the day (sext), and the ninth hour of the day (none). The concept of major hours of prayer corresponding to the first and last hour of the day likely correspond to Jewish practices; that Sunday services (corresponding to the Sabbath in Christianity) are more complex and longer (involving twice as many services if one counts the Eucharist and the afternoon service) also likely have root in Jewish practices. Similarly, the liturgical year from Christmas via Easter to Pentecost covers roughly five months, the other seven having no major services linked to the work of Christ. Though worship services had their origins in Jewish services, it is unlikely that Jewish services were copied or deliberately substituted (see Supersessionism).\nContemporary church services.\nContemporary worship services have their origins in the Jesus Movement of the 1960s. In the 1980s and 1990s, contemporary Christian music, comprising a variety of musical styles, such as Christian rock and Christian hip-hop was adopted by evangelical churches. Over the years, the organs have been replaced by pianos, electric guitars and drums. These contemporary worship services feature a sermon based on the Bible. Worship service in Evangelical churches is seen as an act of God's worship. It is usually run by a Christian pastor. It usually contains two main parts, the praise and the sermon, with periodically the Lord's Supper. During worship there is usually a nursery for babies. Prior to the worship service, adults, children and young people receive an adapted education, Sunday school, in a separate room. With the 1960s' charismatic movement, a new conception of praise in worship, such as clapping and raising hands as a sign of worship, took place in many evangelical denominations. In the 1980s and 1990s, contemporary Christian music, including a wide variety of musical styles, such as Christian Rock, appeared in the praise. Some churches have services with traditional Christian music, others with contemporary Christian music, and some offer both in separate services. In the 2000s and 2010s, digital technologies were integrated into worship services, such as the video projectors for broadcasting praise lyrics or video, on big screens. The use of social media such as YouTube and Facebook to retransmit live or delayed worship services, by Internet, has also spread. The offering via Internet has become a common practice in several churches. In some churches, a special moment is reserved for faith healing with laying on of hands during worship services. Faith healing or divine healing is considered a legacy of Jesus acquired by his death and resurrection. The taking up of tithes and offerings (gifts made beyond the tithe) is a normative part of the worship services. The main Christian feasts celebrated by the Evangelicals are Christmas, Pentecost, and Easter for all believers, among others depending on Christian denominations (cf. evangelical feasts).\nQuaker meeting for worship.\nQuakers (the Religious Society of Friends), like other Nonconformist Protestant denominations, distinguish between a church, which is a body of people who believe in Christ, and a 'meeting house' or 'chapel', which is a building where the church meets. Quakers have both unprogrammed and programmed meetings for worship. Unprogrammed worship is based on waiting in silence and inward listening to the Spirit, from which any participant may share a message. In unprogrammed meetings for worship, someone speaks when that person feels that God/Spirit/the universe has given them a message for others. Programmed worship includes many elements similar to Protestant services, such as a sermon and hymns. Many programmed meetings also include a time during the service for silent, expectant waiting and messages from the participants.\nCommon features.\nA church service generally includes a reading of scripture verses and possibly a psalm. If the church follows a lectionary, this will identify the readings to be used, and if there is a sermon, this will often relate to the scripture lections assigned to that day. Bible services are devoted primarily to the reading and explanation of biblical texts. Styles of service vary greatly, from the Catholic, Lutheran, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Reformed (Continental Reformed, Presbyterian, and Congregationalist), and Anglican traditions of liturgical worship to informal worship characterized by certain free church traditions, common among Methodists and Baptists, which often combine worship with teaching for the believers, which may also have an evangelistic component.\nOften services include the singing of hymns. Vocal music is traditionally sung by a choir or the congregation (or a mixture of the two), usually accompanied by an organ. Sometimes other instruments such as piano, classical instruments, or modern band instruments may be part of the service, especially in churches influenced by the contemporary worship movement. Some churches are equipped with state-of-the-art multi-media equipment to add to the worship experience. The congregation may sing along in hymnals or words to hymns and worship songs may be displayed on a screen. More liturgical denominations may have the words to specific prayers written in a missalette or prayer book, which the congregation follows. Though most of the services are still conducted in church buildings designed specifically for that purpose, some services take place in \"store front\" or temporary settings.\nFor those unable to attend a service in a church building a burgeoning televangelism and radio ministry provides broadcasts of services. A number of websites have been set up as \"cyber-churches\" to provide a virtual worship space free to anyone on the internet. Church services are often planned and led by a single minister (pastor) or a small group of elders or may follow a format laid out by the dictates of the denomination. \nSome churches are \"lay led\" with members of the congregation taking turns guiding the service or simply following format that has evolved over time between the active members. More commonly, an ordained minister will preach a sermon (which may cover a specific topic, or as part of a book of the Bible which is being covered over a period of time). Depending on the church, a public invitation follows whereby people are encouraged to become Christians, present themselves as candidates for baptism or to join the congregation (if members elsewhere), or for other purposes. Many congregations begin their church services with the ringing of a bell (or a number of bells); a current trend is to have an introductory video which serves as a \"countdown\" to the beginning of the service. Eucharistic churches have usually Holy Communion either every Sunday or several Sundays a month. Less liturgical congregations tend to place a greater emphasis on the sermon. Many churches will take up a collection of money (offertory) during the service. The rationale for this is taken from , , and . But some churches eschew this practice in favor of voluntary anonymous donations for which a box or plate may be set up by the entrance, or return-address envelopes may be provided that worshippers may take with them. Offering through the Internet has become a common practice in many evangelical churches. On occasion, some churches will also arrange a second collection, typically occurring after Communion, for a specific good cause or purpose.\nSome churches offer Sunday school classes. These will often be for younger children, and may take place during the whole of the service (while the adults are in church), or the children may be present for the beginning of the service and at a prearranged point leave the service to go to Sunday school. Some churches have adult Sunday school either before or after the main worship service.\nAttendance for the whole of a church service is the norm. The Second Vatican Council stressed for Catholic church members that taking part in \"the entire Mass\" was important, especially on Sundays and holidays of obligation. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, members of the congregation may leave the service and return later if they wish, for example worshippers with children may often take a break and return later.\nFollowing the service, there will often be an opportunity for fellowship in the church hall or other convenient place. This provides the members of the congregation a chance to socialize with each other and to greet visitors or new members. Coffee or other refreshments may be served.\nTypes of church service.\nChurch services take many forms, and set liturgies may have different names. Services typically include:\nPlaces of worship.\nPlaces of worship are usually called \"churches\" or \"chapels\". Some services take place in theaters, schools or multipurpose rooms, rented for Sunday only.\nAttire.\nChristians have historically tended to wear modest clothes at church services (cf. 1 Timothy 2:9\u201310). Men have traditionally removed their caps while praying and worshipping, while women have traditionally worn a headcovering while praying and worshipping (cf. 1 Corinthians 11:1\u201311). These practices continue to be normative in certain churches, congregations, and denominations, as well as in particular parts of the world, such as in Eastern Europe and in the Indian subcontinent, while in the West, attention to these observances has waned generally (apart from those denominations that continue to require them, such as Conservative Anabaptist churches). In many nondenominational Christian churches, it may be customary, depending on the locality, for people to be dressed casually."}
{"id": "715090", "revid": "7777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715090", "title": "Marcus A. Hanna", "text": ""}
{"id": "715093", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715093", "title": "Jeanne Louise Calment", "text": ""}
{"id": "715094", "revid": "1877623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715094", "title": "Garfield Todd", "text": "Sir Reginald Stephen Garfield Todd (13 July 1908 \u2013 13 October 2002) was a liberal Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia from 1953 to 1958 and later became an opponent of white minority rule in Rhodesia.\nBackground.\nTodd was born in 1908 in Invercargill, New Zealand, and was of Scottish descent. He was educated at Otago University, Glen Leith Theological College, and the University of the Witwatersrand. At Glen Leith, he took homiletics, elocution and logic. In 1932, he married Jean Grace Wilson, with whom he had three daughters, the second of whom is the Zimbabwean political activist, Judith Todd. \nTodd emigrated to Southern Rhodesia from New Zealand in 1934 as a Protestant missionary and ran the Dadaya New Zealand Churches of Christ Mission school. One of the primary-school teachers in his charge was Robert Mugabe. Though he had no formal medical training, Todd and his wife, Grace, set up a clinic where he delivered hundreds of babies and treated minor injuries. His ranch, Hokonui, was named after the hills in his home province of Southland.\nPolitical involvement.\nIn 1948, Todd won election to parliament. He succeeded Sir Godfrey Martin Huggins as leader of the United Rhodesia Party and Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia in 1953 when Huggins became the inaugural Prime Minister of the newly established Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. \nFrom 1955 to 1960, Todd served as first vice-president of the World Convention of Churches of Christ.\nGovernment.\nTodd introduced modest reforms aimed at improving the education of the black majority by taking tax-money paid by Rhodesian property owners and appropriations from the British colonial authorities, and directing it toward black schools. His government introduced a plan to give elementary education to every African of school age. He doubled the number of primary schools and gave grants to missionary-run schools to introduce secondary school and pre-university courses for blacks.\nHe also introduced the appellation \"Mr\" for blacks instead of \"AM\" (\"African Male\") and ended the prohibition on the sale of alcohol to black residents of the reserves, who were allowed to drink European beer and wine, though not spirits.\nTodd pushed a bill through the Legislative Assembly, allowing for multiracial trade unions, thereby undercutting the growing white nationalist influence in the unions. Lastly, in a bid to increase the number of blacks eligible to vote from 2% to 16% of the electorate, he moved to lower property and education qualifications, but this was rejected. \nIn response, Todd's ministers resigned en bloc, and following the appointment of a new cabinet, his party forced him out of power; three months later, he was replaced as party leader and Prime Minister by Edgar Whitehead.\nIn a farewell statement, he said \"We must make it possible for every individual to lead the good life, to win a place in the sun. We are in danger of becoming a race of fear-ridden neurotics \u2013 we who live in the finest country on Earth.\"\nIn addition to prime ministership, Todd was Minister of Finance and several other portfolios. He was granted retention of the title \"The Honourable\" in October 1958, for having served more than three years on the executive council.\nLater life.\nAfter helping to co-ordinate the isolation and embargo of Rhodesia, and especially after his support for legitimising guerrilla activity by black nationalists, Todd was widely condemned as a traitor by white Rhodesians. When the Smith Government was ultimately forced to give up power and the nation became the independent state of Zimbabwe in 1980, Todd was immediately considered for appointment to the new black government for his \"collaborating\" role. Lord Soames, following the recommendation of Prime Minister-elect Robert Mugabe, appointed Todd to the Senate on 8 April 1980, where Todd served until his retirement in 1985. After years of supporting Mugabe, Todd became disillusioned with the new regime due to its blatant violence against political opponents. He was appointed a Knight Bachelor, for services to Africa and New Zealand, by Queen Elizabeth II in the 1986 New Year Honours, at the instigation of the New Zealand government.\nDuring retirement, Todd donated of his ranch to former guerillas who had been maimed in the Rhodesian Bush War. Nonetheless, Todd's criticism of Mugabe intensified and, in 2002, he was stripped of Zimbabwean nationality. He died, aged 94, on 13 October 2002, in Bulawayo."}
{"id": "715098", "revid": "60874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715098", "title": "Mythical man-month", "text": ""}
{"id": "715100", "revid": "82835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715100", "title": "Brain attack", "text": ""}
{"id": "715101", "revid": "886257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715101", "title": "League of gentlemen", "text": ""}
{"id": "715102", "revid": "111996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715102", "title": "Free State of Iceland", "text": ""}
{"id": "715105", "revid": "11487766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715105", "title": "1853 in sports", "text": "1853 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\nBaseball.\nEvents\nBoxing.\nEvents\nCricket.\nEvents\nEngland\nHorse racing.\nEngland\nRowing.\nThe Boat Race"}
{"id": "715106", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715106", "title": "Manor Lodge", "text": ""}
{"id": "715107", "revid": "14594899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715107", "title": "Phallales", "text": "The Phallales are an order of fungi in the subclass Phallomycetidae.\nTaxonomy.\nThe order contains three families:\nThe genera \"Saprogaster\" and \"Vandasia\" are also included in this order but not yet classified in a family level taxon."}
{"id": "715108", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715108", "title": "Thomas Morris (Ohio politician)", "text": "Thomas Morris (January 3, 1776December 7, 1844) was an American politician from Ohio who served in the United States Senate and was a member of the Democratic Party. In the 1844 presidential election, he was the vice presidential nominee of the anti-slavery Liberty Party.\nBiography.\nMorris was born in Berks County, Pennsylvania, and enlisted as a Ranger to fight the Indians in 1793. He settled in western Ohio two years later. Morris began practicing law in Bethel, Ohio in 1804.\nCareer.\nOn May 12, 1806, shortly after the beginning of the 1806\u20131807 term of the Ohio House of Representatives, Morris contested the election of David C. Bryan and was awarded the seat from Clermont County.\nMorris served in the Ohio State House of Representatives for Clermont County in 1806\u20131807, 1808\u20131809, 1810\u20131811, and 1820\u20131821. He served as Justice of the Ohio State Supreme Court in 1809. He was then a member of the Ohio State Senate for Clermont County in 1813\u20131815, 1821\u20131823, 1825\u20131829 and 1831\u20131833.\nHe was elected as Jacksonian Democrat to the U.S. Senate in 1833, and served a single term. In 1839 he was defeated for reelection because of support of abolition. After his defeat, Morris became increasingly vocal in his criticism of Ohio Democrats who opposed abolition and civil rights for free blacks. Finally in January 1840, delegates to the Ohio Democrat State Convention described Morris as \"a rotten branch that should be lopped off\" and expelled him from the party. Morris then became one of the early leaders of the Liberty Party in Ohio. He was nominated to the Vice Presidency by the Liberty Party in 1844 under James G. Birney. The ticket came in third after Democratic candidate James Knox Polk and Whig Party candidate Henry Clay.\nFamily life.\nMorris was the father of Isaac Newton Morris and Jonathan David Morris.\nDeath.\nHe died December 7, 1844.\nLegacy.\nMorris was instrumental in developing and articulating the theoretical basis for the antislavery constitution. Author and prominent American Civil War historian Eric Foner argues in his seminal book \"Free Soil, Free Labor, Free Men\" that Sen. Morris is one of the most significant figures in the anti-slavery movement and the \"first political martyr of the anti-slavery cause when he was denied re-election to the Senate because of his abolitionist convictions.\" He also argues that Morris \"awakened (Salmon Chase) to the character of the Slave Power and to the need for political organization to combat its influences,\" leading the way for the term \"Slave Power\" to enter the American political jargon and paving the way for the creation of the Republican Party."}
{"id": "715110", "revid": "24902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715110", "title": "List of Canadian electoral districts (1996\u20132003)", "text": "This is a list of the Canadian electoral districts used between 1997 and 2003. During this period, the House of Commons of Canada had 301 seats. This arrangement was used in the 1997 federal election, the 2000 federal election. The Ontario ridings were used in the 1999 and 2003 provincial elections."}
{"id": "715113", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715113", "title": "Feijoada completa", "text": ""}
{"id": "715115", "revid": "1104957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715115", "title": "SS Cuba (1920)", "text": "SS \"Cuba was a passenger and cargo steamship that was wrecked in 1923 off the coast of California. Her remains are now a wreck diving site. She was launched in Germany in 1897 as Coblenz for Norddeutscher Lloyd (NDL), which owned and operated her until the United States seized her in 1917. The United States Shipping Board took possession of her and renamed her Sachem\". In 1920 the Pacific Mail Steamship Company bought her and renamed her \"Cuba\".\nBuilding.\nIn 1897 NDL took delivery of a trio of sister ships for its route between Bremen and South America. Blohm+Voss in Hamburg launched \"Coblenz\" on 18 March, and completed her on 5 May. Joh. C. Tecklenborg in Bremerhaven launched \"Mainz\" on 15 May, and completed her on 8 July. Schichau Seebeckwerft in Bremerhaven launched \"Trier\" on 5 June, and completed her on 15 June.\n\"Coblenz\"s registered length was , her beam was and her depth was . Her tonnages were and . As built, she had berths for 20 passengers in First Class and 232 in Third Class.\n\"Mainz\" had twin screws, each driven by a three-cylinder triple-expansion engine the combined power of her twin engines was rated at 280 NHP, and gave her a speed of .\nNDL service.\nNDL registered \"Coblenz\" at Bremen. Her code letters were QGJW. In May 1897 she began her maiden voyage, which was to Santos in Brazil. In September 1900 she made a voyage from Bremen to Baltimore. In 1903 NDL put \"Coblenz\", \"Mainz\", and \"Trier\" on its route between Bremen and Manzanillo, Cuba. Ports of call on this route were Antwerp; A Coru\u00f1a; Vilagarc\u00eda de Arousa or Vigo; Havana; and Cienfuegos.\nIn 1909 NDL revised \"Coblenz\"s passenger accommodation to 24 First Class; 32 Second Class; and 68 Third Class, and transferred her to its route between Sydney and Kobe. On her first voyage on the route, she left Hong Kong on 13 August, and reached Sydney on 5 September. Ports of call on this route were Brisbane; Rabaul; Friedrich-Wilhelms-Hafen; Maron (Hermit Islands, alternate voyages); Yap; Angaur (alternate voyages); Manila; and Hong Kong. On this route she proved more satisfactory than NDL's \"Prinz Waldemar\" and \"Prinz Sigismund\", so the German Government made her a (\"State Post Steamer\").\nOn 25 July 1914 \"Coblenz\" left Sydney for Kobe as normal, and called at Brisbane two days later. She was in passage from Brisbane to Rabaul on the eve of the First World War, when the German Government ordered all German merchant ships to take refuge in the nearest German or neutral port. \"Coblenz\" increased speed, reached Rabaul, and there disembarked all her passengers. From there she made for Manila, as the United States and its colonies were neutral.\nSeizure by the US.\nBy 1917 \"Coblenz\" was one of 17 German merchant ships in Manila. On 3 February that year the US Government detained German ships in all ports of the US and its colonies.\nOn 6 April 1917 the USA declared war on Germany, and the US Government seized all the German ships that had been detained since February. The United States Shipping Board (USSB) assumed ownership of \"Coblenz\". In September 1917 it was reported that the Pacific Mail Steamship Company had chartered three of the German ships seized in Manila: NDL's \"Coblenz\", \"Princess Alice\"; and \"T\u00fcbingen\".\nBy 1918 the USSB had renamed the ship \"Sachem\", and her official number was 215771. By 1919 she was registered in San Francisco, her code letters were NFKJ, and she was equipped with wireless telegraphy.\nPacific Mail service and loss.\nOn 6 February 1920, Pacific Mail bought \"Sachem\" from the USSB for $400,000. She was renamed \"Cuba\", and her code letters were changed to LHTM. Pacific Mail put her on its route between San Francisco and Havana via the Panama Canal. Later it shortened \"Cuba\"s route to San Francisco \u2013 Crist\u00f3bal, on the Atlantic end of the canal.\nIn September 1923 \"Cuba\" had been navigating through a dense fog for several days. At 04:30 hrs on the morning of 8 September she struck a reef at position , just off San Miguel Island in the Santa Barbara Channel off Point Arguello of Santa Barbara County, California. Her wireless was not working, and her No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 holds were flooded. The Chief Officer and eight crewmen set out in one of her lifeboats to seek help. Another 68 of \"Cuba\"s passengers and crew then set out in two more lifeboats. Her Master, Purser, and eight seamen remained aboard to guard her cargo, which included $2.5\u00a0million in silver bullion.\nDespite the fog, a squadron of United States Navy destroyers was in the area undertaking a speed trial. One of the destroyers, , changed course because of the fog. At about 15:00 hrs, \"Reno\" passed one of \"Cuba\"s lifeboats at speed. After \"Reno\" passed a second lifeboat, and turned back. She rescued all the occupants of the two boats, who included women and children passengers. The survivors then directed \"Reno\" to \"Cuba\"s wreck.\nAt first, the Chief Officer and eight men who had left \"Cuba\" in the first boat were not accounted for. However, a Standard Oil of California tanker, \"W. S. Miller\", happened to find them, and landed them at Los Angeles. \"Cuba\"s passengers, crew and cargo were all successfully rescued.\nThe remainder of \"Reno\"s squadron continued with the speed trial. It led to the Honda Point disaster later that day, in which seven of the destroyers were wrecked and 23 sailors died.\n\"Cuba\"s wreck forms an artificial reef, and supports marine life including the California sheephead. As such, it is now a wreck diving site."}
{"id": "715117", "revid": "7648227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715117", "title": "League of Gentlemen", "text": ""}
{"id": "715121", "revid": "36418353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715121", "title": "Benjamin Ruggles", "text": "Benjamin Ruggles (February 21, 1783September 2, 1857) was a National Republican and Whig politician from Ohio. He served in the U.S. Senate.\nBiography.\nBorn in Abington, Connecticut, Ruggles studied law and was admitted to the bar. Ruggles moved to Marietta, Ohio, to practice law in 1807, then moved to St. Clairsville, Ohio, in 1810.\nCareer.\nAfter serving as a judge in the Ohio state courts from 1810 to 1815, Ruggles was elected to the Senate, serving three terms from 1815-1833. He did not run for re-election in 1832. Ohio Presidential elector in 1836 for Whig William Henry Harrison.\nFamily life.\nRuggles married in Connecticut in 1812. His first wife died in St. Clairsville in 1817, and he remarried in 1825.\nDeath.\nRuggles died on September 2, 1857, and was buried in Saint Clairsville Union Cemetery in St. Clairsville, Ohio."}
{"id": "715128", "revid": "29463730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715128", "title": "Pavlovsky District", "text": "Pavlovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The district names are generally related to or derived from the male first name Pavel."}
{"id": "715129", "revid": "13889901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715129", "title": "NUI Galway", "text": ""}
{"id": "715136", "revid": "49695808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715136", "title": "Pervomaysky District, Russia", "text": "Pervomaysky District is the name of several administrative and municipal divisions of Russia. The districts are generally named for International Workers' Day, which is celebrated on May\u00a01."}
{"id": "715139", "revid": "19638037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715139", "title": "Catholic epistles", "text": "The catholic epistles (also called the general epistles) are seven epistles of the New Testament. Listed in order of their appearance in the New Testament, the catholic epistles are:\nNaming.\nThe use of the word \"catholic\" in the term \"'catholic\" epistles' has been a convention going back to the fourth century. Untied to a particular denomination, it simply meant \"general\" at that time. Later, the word \"catholic\" would become part of the name of the Catholic Church. To avoid the assumption that these texts are therefore specific to the Catholic Church or Catholicism, alternative terms such as \"general epistles\" or \"general missionary epistles\" are used. \nIn the historical context, the word \"catholic\" probably signified that the letters were addressed to the general church, and not to specific, separate congregations or persons, as with the Pauline epistles. However, 2 John and 3 John appear to contradict this view, because their addresses are respectively to the \"elect lady\", speculated by many to be the church itself, and to \"Gaius\", about whom there has been much speculation but little in the way of conclusive proof as to his identity. Some historians therefore think that the label \"catholic\" was originally applied to just 1 John, and expanded to all other non-Pauline epistles later on.\nSome Protestants have termed these \"Lesser Epistles\". In general, with the exception of James, these writings are fairly obscure and receive less attention than the other parts of the New Testament.\nAuthorship.\nThree of the seven letters are anonymous. These three have traditionally been attributed to John the Apostle, the son of Zebedee and one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. Consequently, these letters have been labelled the Johannine epistles, despite the fact that none of the epistles mentions any author. Most modern scholars believe the author is not John the Apostle, but there is no scholarly consensus for any particular historical figure. (See Authorship of the Johannine works.)\nTwo of the letters claim to have been written by Simon Peter, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus. Therefore, they have traditionally been called the Petrine epistles. However, most modern scholars agree the second epistle was probably not written by Peter, because it appears to have been written in the early 2nd century, long after Peter had died. Yet, opinions on the first epistle are more divided; many scholars do think this letter is authentic, although it is written in a polished Greek even better than that of Paul, which is unlikely for an illiterate Jewish fisherman, and adopts Paul's theology, which fits poorly with the tension between Paul and Peter.\nIn one epistle, the author only calls himself James (\u1f38\u03ac\u03ba\u03c9\u03b2\u03bf\u03c2 \"I\u00e1kobos\"). It is not known which James this is supposed to be. There are several different traditional Christian interpretations of other New Testament texts which mention a James, brother of Jesus. However, most modern scholars tend to reject this line of reasoning, since the author himself does not indicate any familial relationship with Jesus. A similar problem presents itself with the Epistle of Jude (\u1f38\u03bf\u03cd\u03b4\u03b1\u03c2 \"Ioudas\"): the writer names himself a brother of James (\u1f00\u03b4\u03b5\u03bb\u03c6\u1f78\u03c2 \u03b4\u1f72 \u1f38\u03b1\u03ba\u03ce\u03b2\u03bf\u03c5 \"adelphos de Iak\u00f3bou\"), but it is not clear which James is meant. According to some Christian traditions, this is the same James as the author of the Epistle of James, himself reputedly a brother of Jesus; and so, this Jude should also be a brother of Jesus, despite the fact he does not indicate any such thing in his text.\nWith the exception of the Petrine epistles, both of which may be pseudepigrapha, the seven catholic epistles were added to the New Testament canon because early Church Fathers attributed the anonymous epistles to important people, and attributed the epistles written by people with the same name as important people to those important people.\nRejection from the biblical canon.\nAcceptance of the Catholic epistles was contentious for the first few centuries of Christianity. Rejection among some Christians was first described by Origen in the early third century. Even after the epistles began to widely appear in canonical lists from the late fourth century, some groups continued to reject some or all the catholic epistles into the sixth and seventh centuries."}
{"id": "715141", "revid": "372290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715141", "title": "Joseph Kerr", "text": "Joseph Kerr (1765August 22, 1837) was a Democratic-Republican politician from Ohio who served in the United States Senate.\nBiography.\nKerr (pronounced \"car\") was born in Kerrtown, Pennsylvania (now Chambersburg), and moved to Ohio in 1792. \nHe served in a number of positions as clerk, surveyor, judge and justice of the peace in the Northwest Territory.\nHe served as justice of the peace at Manchester, Adams County, Ohio in 1797. and as a judge of the first quarter session court of Adams County, Northwest Territory, in 1797.\nKerr's son, Joseph Kerr Jr., died in the Battle of the Alamo.\nCareer.\nAfter statehood was declared, Kerr was elected to the Ohio House of Representatives in 1808, 1816, 1818, and 1819. He was elected to the Ohio State Senate in 1804 and 1810. He also served as a brigadier general of Ohio Volunteers during the War of 1812, in charge of supplying provisions to the Army of the Northwest.\nKerr was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1814 to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of Thomas Worthington. Kerr served from December 10, 1814, to March 3, 1815, and did not seek re-election.\nDeath.\nKerr's extensive farm went bankrupt in 1826, and he moved to Memphis, Tennessee and then to rural Louisiana, where he purchased a homestead near Lake Providence. He died on August 22, 1837."}
{"id": "715144", "revid": "33974892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715144", "title": "Petropavlovsky District", "text": "Petropavlovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715145", "revid": "754658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715145", "title": "\u0141upawa", "text": "\u0141upawa () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Pot\u0119gowo, within S\u0142upsk County, Pomeranian Voivodeship, in northern Poland.\nThe settlement was first mentioned in 1282. From the 15th until the 18th century \u0141upawa enjoyed some importance as it was situated on the road from Szczecin to Gda\u0144sk. In 1689 \u0141upawa was incorporated as a town."}
{"id": "715149", "revid": "51769868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715149", "title": "Carlos di Sarli", "text": "Carlos Di Sarli (January 7, 1903January 12, 1960) was an Argentine tango musician, orchestra leader, composer and pianist.\nEarly years.\nCarlos di Sarli was born at 511 Buenos Aires street (now Yrigoyen) in the city of Bah\u00eda Blanca, located in Southern Argentina. He was the eighth child of the Italian immigrant Miguel Di Sarli, the owner of a gunsmith store, and Serafina Russomano, daughter of the tenor singer Tito Russomano. Baptized as Cayetano di Sarli in accordance with the solid Catholic tradition of his parents, he later changed his name to Carlos. Music played an important role in the family: Carlos' older brother Domingo was a teacher at the Williams music conservatory in Bah\u00eda Blanca, Nicolas, another older child, became a famous baritone, and Carlos' younger brother, Roque, turned into a pianist. Carlos received training in classical music in the conservatory where his brother was teaching.\nIn 1916, working in his father's store, he suffered an accident that cost him an eye and which forced him to wear glasses for the rest of his life. Once recovered from the accident, 13-year-old Carlos joined a company of traveling musicians, touring various provinces and playing popular music including tangos. Then he moved to Santa Rosa in the La Pampa province where a friend of his father, another Italian immigrant by the name of Mario Manara, owned a cinema and a club. He played piano there for two years, accompanying silent movies and performing early tango songs at the club. In 1919, he returned to Bah\u00eda Blanca and set up his first orchestra, playing at the Cafe Express on the corner of Zelarrayan and Buenos Aires streets, and in Cafe Moka, on O'Higgins street. The orchestra also did tours in the provinces La Pampa, C\u00f3rdoba, Mendoza, San Juan and Salta. In 1923, Carlos and his younger brother Roque moved to Buenos Aires.\nActive years as a musician.\nThere, with the help of Alberico Spatola, the composer of the tango \"El trece\" and the director of the Buenos Aires police orchestra, he was able to join the band of Anselmo Aieta. In early 1924, Carlos joined an orchestra directed by the violin player Juan Pedro Castillo, and later, the trio of Alejandro Scarpino (the composer of \"Canaro en Paris\"). He accompanied the actress and singer Olinda Boz\u00e1n on her recordings for the Electra label and worked as part of a sextet in the cabaret \"Chantecler\".\nThanks to a recommendation from Jos\u00e9 P\u00e9cora, a violin player, he joined Osvaldo Fresedo's orchestra in 1926 and played at the opening night of the \"F\u00e9nix\" theater in the Buenos Aires neighborhood of Flores. Fresedo became an important influence on di Sarli's music as well as a good friend. The tango \"Viejo milonguero\", which di Sarli composed around 1927-28, was dedicated to Fresedo. It was around the same time that Juan \"Pacho\" Maglio and Jos\u00e9 Mar\u00eda Rizzutti recorded the tango \"Meditaci\u00f3n\" which di Sarli had composed around 1919 but never recorded himself.\nIn late 1927 he started to set up his own sextet or \"orchestra tipica\" (Jos\u00e9 P\u00e9cora and David Abramsky on violin, C\u00e9sar Ginzo and Tito Land\u00f3 on bandone\u00f3n and Adolfo Kraus on bass), directing it from behind the piano that he himself played. With the orchestra, di Sarli played live in clubs as well as radio shows in Radio Cultura and recorded for the label RCA Victor. In addition to instrumentals, he recorded with the vocalists Santiago Devincenzi (who later changed his last name to Devin), Ernesto Fam\u00e1 and Fernando D\u00edaz. These singers were hired only to sing the short verses (\"estribillos\") during the performances and were not constant members of his orchestra, unlike the musicians. Between November 26, 1928 and August 14, 1931, he recorded 48 tracks including the tangos \"T.B.C.\" by Edgardo Donato, \"Maldita\" by Antonio Rodio and Celedonio Flores, and the Eduardo Arolas compositions \"La guitarrita\" and \"Una noche de garufa\".\nIn 1930, during a performance in the caf\u00e9 \"El Germinal\", di Sarli had an argument with one of the caf\u00e9's owners who did not understand that he wore dark glasses on stage for medical reasons because of his accident at age 13. Di Sarli promptly moved with his orchestra to Bah\u00eda Blanca, where he performed at the \"La Central\" club. In 1932, Antonio Rodr\u00edguez Lesende joined the orchestra as a singer. In 1934, for unclear reasons, di Sarli left the orchestra and moved to Rosario in Santa Fe province where he joined a small band with the bandone\u00f3n player Juan Cambareri, the violin player Alberto Saikievich and the singer Roberto Pieri. His sextet continued to play without him, later changing its name to \"Orquesta Novel\" due to their performances at the club \"Novelty\". At the request of the orchestra's members in 1935, di Sarli rejoined the band temporarily to replace the pianist Ricardo Canataro who was ill at the time.\nIn late 1938, di Sarli reorganized his orchestra and in January 1939 debuted in Radio El Mundo. His orchestra consisted of Roberto Guisado, \u00c1ngel Goicoechea and Adolfo P\u00e9rez on violin, Roberto Gianitelli, Domingo S\u00e1nchez and Roberto Mititieri on bandone\u00f3n and Domingo Capurro on bass. The singer was Ignacio Murillo, soon to be replaced by Roberto Rufino who was 16 years old at the time. On December 11, 1939, they recorded for RCA Victor the tangos \"Coraz\u00f3n\" (composed by di Sarli, with Hector Marco's lyrics) and \"Retirao\" by Carlos Posadas. He stayed with this recording label until 1949, when he withdrew from tango for commercial reasons.\nIn November 1951, he returned to the label Music Hall until April 1953 recording 84 tracks with the vocals of Mario Pomar and Oscar Serpa. From June 1954 until 1958 he returned to the RCA Victor label, leaving that year for Philips to record his last 14 tracks with Horacio Casares and Jorge Dur\u00e1n.\nThere are 4870 different transfers of recordings by Carlos Di Sarli taken from 78-RPM, LP, CD and digital transfers listed in the TANGO-DJ.AT Database, featuring extensive meta data and soundsamples for supporting members.\nLast orchestra lineup.\nSince 1958, in addition to Di Sarli on the piano, the orchestra included the violinists Roberto Guisado, Elvino Vardaro, A. Rouco, Szymsia Bajour, Carlos Arnaiz, Juan Schiaffino, C. Gonz\u00e1lez and A. Rossi; the bandone\u00f3n players F. Verdi, Jos\u00e9 Libertella, Juli\u00e1n Plaza, A. Marcucci y D. S\u00e1nchez; A. Sciarretta on bass and the singers Horacio Casares and Jorge Dur\u00e1n. Di Sarli, already seriously ill, gave his last performance on March 8, 1959, in the club \"Podest\u00e1 de Lan\u00fas\", finishing with a performance of \"Bah\u00eda Blanca\", his own composition dedicated to his hometown.\nHis vocalists.\nDuring the sextet years, his singers (in chronological order) were Santiago Devin (cenzi), Ernesto Fam\u00e1, Fernando D\u00edaz, Antonio Rodr\u00edguez Lesende, Roberto Arrieta and Ignacio Murillo. In his later years, larger orchestra Murillo was followed by Roberto Rufino, then Antonio Rodr\u00edguez Lesende, Agust\u00edn Volpe, Carlos Acu\u00f1a, Alberto Podest\u00e1, again Roberto Rufino, then again Alberto Podest\u00e1, Osvaldo Cabrera, Roberto Rufino for a third time, Alberto Podest\u00e1 for a third time, Jorge Dur\u00e1n, Ra\u00fal Rosales, Alberto Podest\u00e1 for the fourth time, Osvaldo Cord\u00f3, Oscar Serpa, Mario Pomar, again Oscar Serpa, Argentino Ledesma, Rodolfo Gal\u00e9, Roberto Florio, and finally Jorge Dur\u00e1n again and Horacio Casares.\nDi Sarli's musical style.\nIn the beginning, his music had a simple structure, but over time it matured into a more lyrical, richer, playful and more subtle style which remained popular with tango dancers as it continued to have a clear dancing beat. This clean \"comp\u00e1s\" made him a favorite of beginning social tango dancers, while more advanced ones could enjoy the complexity and variations of his music. Because of this, di Sarli's orchestra was among the most popular ones during Carnival balls of his age and can still be heard at milongas in Buenos Aires and around the world today.\nDi Sarli moved beyond the style of the \"guardia vieja\" of tango and Julio de Caro's avant-garde, preferring to forge his own style without concession to the fashions of the day. While being influenced by Fresedo early on, he soon established his own way. A talented piano player, he directed his orchestra from behind his own instrument. His recordings do not feature significant instrumental solos; the bandone\u00f3ns at times carry the melody but essentially play a rhythmical, milonguero role. Only the violins stand out, playing a short solo or a counterpoint melody. He recorded many tracks more than once over the years, often with different singers. Di Sarli's creativity was mostly limited to the left hand piano part, filling in, modulating and accenting his delicate and elegant dancing beat. His reputation for musical elegance got him his nickname \"El Se\u00f1or del Tango\" (\"The Gentleman of Tango\")."}
{"id": "715152", "revid": "4378435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715152", "title": "Petrovsky District, Russia", "text": "Petrovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The districts' name generally derives from or is related to the male first name Pyotr."}
{"id": "715155", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715155", "title": "University of W\u00fcrzburg", "text": "The Julius Maximilian University of W\u00fcrzburg (also referred to as the University of W\u00fcrzburg, in German \"Julius-Maximilians-Universit\u00e4t W\u00fcrzburg\") is a public research university in W\u00fcrzburg, Germany. Founded in 1402, it is one of the oldest institutions of higher learning in Germany. The university initially had a brief run and was closed in 1415. It was reopened in 1582 on the initiative of Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn. Today, the university is named for Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn and Maximilian Joseph.\nThe University of W\u00fcrzburg is part of the U15 group of research-intensive German universities. The university is also a member of the Coimbra Group. In the winter semester 2022/2023, 26,787 students were enrolled, of which 16,351 were women and 3,250 were first semester university students. The University is associated with 14 Nobel laureates.\nName.\nIts official name is Julius-Maximilians-Universit\u00e4t W\u00fcrzburg (or \"Julius-Maximilian University of W\u00fcrzburg\") but it is commonly referred to as the University of W\u00fcrzburg. This name is taken from Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn, Prince-Bishop of W\u00fcrzburg, who reestablished the university in 1582, and Prince Elector Maximilian Joseph, the prince under whom secularization occurred at the start of the 19th century. The university's central administration, foreign student office, and several research institutes are located within the area of the old town, while the new liberal arts campus, with its modern library, overlooks the city from the east. The university today enrolls approximately 29,000 students, out of which more than 1,000 come from other countries.\nHistory.\nFirst founding in 1402.\nThe university was founded as the \"High School of W\u00fcrzburg\" on an initiative started in 1401 by Prince Bishop Johann von Egloffstein. He wanted to transform the \"Gymnasium herbipolense\" into a university with four faculties hoping that an influx of teaching staff and students in his territory would cover the need for qualified lawyers and clerics and thus lead to an upturn in the city's economy. He bought the buildings needed for teaching from members of his cathedral chapter.\nOn 10 December 1402, he was granted the required privilege from Pope Boniface IX. This put W\u00fcrzburg among the cities with the oldest universities in the then German-speaking area \u2013 Prague (1348), Vienna (1365), Heidelberg (1386), Cologne (1388) and Erfurt (1392), and made W\u00fcrzburg the oldest university in Bavaria. Among the teachers at the university were Winand von Steeg, Johannes Ambundi and Bartholom\u00e4us Fr\u00f6wein.\nAlready before 1430, however, teaching was suspended shortly after the death of Prince Bishop von Egloffstein. The reason for the decline was primarily the lack of funding, since it had not been possible to establish a foundation that had its own benefice. On 30 November 1413, the rector of the university, Johann Zantfurt, was murdered by his valet; the circumstances were never clarified. Later, Lorenz Fries bought the university building. In 1427, the \"Hohe Schule\" was mentioned for the last time in a document. By that time, it had not been dissolved yet, but had become insignificant. Friedrich von Wirsberg, who became prince-bishop in 1558, was the first to consider rebuilding the university. Due to problems with the clergy and administration, however, he was unable to realize his plans\nFrom re-founding in 1582 to 1945.\nAfter classes had been resumed in some of the subjects in 1551 and the first doctorates had already been awarded in 1567, the W\u00fcrzburg Prince-Bishop Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn, during the Counter-Reformation, in 1575, first obtained the imperial and then, in 1576, the papal privileges to re-establish the university (see also called St\u00fcrmer). This time, financing was better ensured, and student regulations were stricter. On 2 January 1582, first the theological and philosophical faculties were reopened, and their deans appointed. The name of the university was \"Academia Iulia\" (Julius University). The university seal was not created until the following year, and thus bears the year 1583. Statutes for the medical faculty were drawn up in 1587. Although the number of lecturers was not complete until 1593, the first medical student, Georg Leyerer from Ebersbrunn, was already enrolled on 2 October 1585.\nIn 1591, the four-winged university building and the associated church (Neubaukirche) in one of its angles, both commissioned by Julius Echter, were completed. It seems certain that the architect of the building was Georg Robin. Theologians, lawyers and humanities scholars were accommodated in this complex which today is called \"Alte Universit\u00e4t\". The medical faculty found its home in Juliusspital.\nInitially, the university was only open to Catholic students. In 1734, Prince Bishop Friedrich Karl von Sch\u00f6nborn issued new study regulations which opened it up to non-Catholics, too. First, theology in W\u00fcrzburg was determined by Jesuits. But in 1773, the W\u00fcrzburg Jesuit College was dissolved, and Adam Friedrich von Seinsheim hired followers of the Enlightenment for the theological faculty and thus laid the foundation for its future orientation. From then on, and especially under his successor Franz Ludwig von Erthal, Enlightenment theologians became increasingly active in W\u00fcrzburg. Nevertheless, it was only in the early 19th century, after W\u00fcrzburg had come under Bavarian rule, that the university gave up its ecclesiastical-Catholic character.\nThe modern development of medical subjects began in the 18th century with the establishment of the medical clinic \u2013 in 1767, the \"internist\" and chemist Franz Heinrich Meinolf Wilhelm became the first head of the Juliusspital hospital. The surgical university clinic was established in 1769 under Carl Caspar von Siebold. In 1796, the physician and court medicus Anton M\u00fcller (1755\u20131827) began working at Juliusspital in W\u00fcrzburg; although he never belonged to the university, he became the first psychiatrist in the hospital and the first to publish on his specialty. Franz Heinrich Meinolf Wilhelm, who as a professor held lectures in German for the first time from 1785, was the first to practice experimental chemistry at the University of W\u00fcrzburg.\n19th century onwards.\nAround 1800, the first student associations were founded in W\u00fcrzburg. The Scientific dentistry in W\u00fcrzburg began with the appointment of Carl Joseph Ringelmann as professor in 1807. In 1822, a faculty of political science was established at the university.\nDuring the coalition wars, the university was renamed several times: First \"Churf\u00fcrstliche Julius-Universit\u00e4t\" (1803), \"Julius Maximilians Universit\u00e4t\" (1803/04\u20131805/06), then \"Kurf\u00fcrstliche Universit\u00e4t zu W\u00fcrzburg\" (1806\u20131806/07), \"Gro\u00dfherzogliche Universit\u00e4t zu W\u00fcrzburg\" (1807\u20131814), and finally \"K\u00f6nigliche Universit\u00e4t zu W\u00fcrzburg\" (1815\u20131838). The names reflected the different affiliations of the university to the Electorate of Bavaria, which perished in 1806, to the Grand Duchy of W\u00fcrzburg, which existed as a Rhineland state until 1814, and then to the Kingdom of Bavaria.\nIn the winter semester of 1838/39, the \"K\u00f6nigliche Universit\u00e4t zu W\u00fcrzburg\" was renamed \"K\u00f6nigliche Julius-Maximilians-Universit\u00e4t\" and two years later \"K\u00f6niglich Bayerische Julius-Maximilians-Universit\u00e4t\" which was to be its name for almost 80 years.\nAfter 1850, the university experienced a strong upswing. Numerous new buildings were created: for medicine in the vicinity of Juliusspital and Pleicherwall, for the natural sciences on today's R\u00f6ntgenring and on Koellikerstra\u00dfe, for dentistry at Pleichertor (demolished in 1879), and for the mental hospital on Schalksberg. Basic medical subjects were taught and researched in the \"Kollegienhaus\", which was completed in 1853 and was the first modern \"biocentre\" in Germany. The first full professor of ophthalmology, appointed in 1866 by the Bavarian king, was Robert Ritter von Welz, a student of Albrecht von Graefe.\nIn 1857, the doctor, who had been teaching ophthalmology and dentistry in W\u00fcrzburg since 1850, opened a private eye clinic in the former birthing house of Adam Elias von Siebold on Klinikstra\u00dfe 6. On 4 January 1858, he acquired the building, which was donated by the Welzsche Marienstiftung for Poor People with Eye Diseases according to Welz' will in 1878 and became the first W\u00fcrzburg university eye clinic. The former delivery house, which had been founded in 1805 as the first maternity clinic in W\u00fcrzburg and a training center for midwives and obstetricians, in 1857, under Friedrich Wilhelm Scanzoni von Lichtenfels, moved to a new building on Klinikstra\u00dfe 8. As an assistant to the surgeon Cajetan von Textor, Robert von Welz was also one of the pioneers of ether anesthesia in the German-speaking world. He developed an inhaler and, after testing it on himself and others in the winter of 1846/47, published the first work on it, and thus established modern anesthesiology in W\u00fcrzburg.\nIn the winter semester of 1876/77, the number of students at the University of W\u00fcrzburg exceeded 1,000 for the first time. In 1888, the university, whose medical faculty was one of the most important after Vienna and Prague between 1850 and 1880, received its own pharmaceutical institute.\nOn 28 October 1896, a new main building, called \"Neue Universit\u00e4t\", was inaugurated on Sanderring (its construction began in 1892); it is still the seat of the university management today.\nOn 3 June 1896, Marcella O'Grady Boveri was the first woman to be admitted to the W\u00fcrzburg Medical Faculty. The first woman to habilitate at the University of W\u00fcrzburg was the psychologist Maria Schorn in 1929.\nA new eye clinic was opened on R\u00f6ntgenring 12 in 1901, with the portrait of Welz engraved over the portal. Welzhaus on Klinikstra\u00dfe 6 was affiliated to the women's clinic on Klinikstra\u00dfe 8, which existed there until 1934, and connected to it by a corridor on the first floor, which was destroyed in World War II and restored in 1974. Welzhaus which was also destroyed except for its outer fa\u00e7ade on 16 March 1945, was rebuilt in 1953/1954. The Mathematical Institute was accommodated there until 1974, when the building was affiliated to the Medical Polyclinic.\nBetween 1901 and 1911, five W\u00fcrzburg researchers, whose appointment was mainly due to the mathematician Friedrich Prym (dean and rector), were awarded Nobel Prizes. This strongly contributed to the international importance of the University of W\u00fcrzburg, particularly of its philosophical faculty.\nAfter the November Revolution of 1918/19, which ended monarchy in Bavaria, the university also lost its title \"K\u00f6niglich Bayerisch\" and was given its current name: \"Julius-Maximilians-Universit\u00e4t\".\nThe medical faculty separated from Juliusspital and in 1921 moved to the new University Hospital of W\u00fcrzburg on the outskirts of the city. It was called \"Luitpold Krankenhaus\". The State Luitpold Hospital was solemnly handed over on 2 November 1921, and within one year the various clinics moved into it. By the summer semester that year, the proportion of students enrolled in medicine had risen to 60 percent.\nIn 1934, under its director Carl Joseph Gauss, the university women's clinic and the affiliated midwifery school moved from Welzhaus on Klinikstra\u00dfe to the Gromb\u00fchl district.\nAn Institute for Genetics and Race Research was set up in Welzhaus on Klinikstra\u00dfe 6 in November 1938 and inaugurated in May 1939.\nBetween 1933 and 1945, the University of W\u00fcrzburg deprived 184 scientists of their doctoral degrees. Above all, scientists of Jewish origin were thus degraded. After the critical processing of these events in 2010, the university posthumously rehabilitated these researchers in a public ceremony in May 2011.\nPost War period.\nAfter the Second World War, the faculty of theology was the first to start anew on 1 October 1945. The faculty of medicine (dean: J\u00fcrg Zutt) followed; it was officially reopened with the constitutive faculty meeting on 11 January 1947, and began its lectures in the winter semester of 1946 /47. On 12 March 1947, the university was solemnly reopened.\nAccording to a report by rector Josef Martin (philologist), the military government had dismissed 123 of the 150 professors who had worked before 1945 and only allowed 27 back to lecture at the university.\nIn 1955, Julius B\u00fcdel significantly developed Africa Research in W\u00fcrzburg. It was mainly due to the results of B\u00fcdel's and Horst Mensching's research trips, that W\u00fcrzburg had become an important center for geographical research on Africa by the late 1970s.\nOn 11 May 1965, the university laid the foundation stone for the new Hubland Campus on a hill in the east of W\u00fcrzburg. The site had been acquired by the Free State of Bavaria from the city of W\u00fcrzburg in 1962 already, to make room for the more than 6,000 students enrolled at Alma Julia. In the years that followed, numerous new buildings were put up there, among them the chemistry center (from 1965 to 1972 the rooms for organic chemistry, pharmacy and food chemistry, inorganic chemistry and a central building were set up), the philosophy building, the university library, the biocentre (1992), sports facilities, buildings for physics, mathematics and computer science, a computer centre, a new canteen and student residences. In 2011, the central lecture hall and seminar building for all faculties (Z6) was inaugurated on Hubland campus, as well as a new internship building for the natural sciences.\nStarting from the existing Surgical Clinic (head: Ernst Kern), new subjects, departments and clinics developed in the seventies: in 1970, the Urological University Clinic (Hubert Frohm\u00fcller); in 1978, the Department for Special Thoracic Surgery (Associate Professor H. J. Viereck), the Department for Surgical X-ray Diagnostics (Extraordinarius G. Viehweger), and the Department for Transfusion Medicine and Immunohematology (Extraordinarius D. Wiebecke). Furthermore, on 16 June 1969, the first Bavarian chair for anesthesiology was established in the medical faculty, headed by his professor Karl-Heinz Weis (* 1927). Weis had already been in charge of the anesthesiology department since 1966 when Werner Wachsmuth was head of the surgical clinic. The former Chair for Genetic Science and Race Research, which Gebsattel had taken over, was renamed the Chair for Medical Psychology and Psychotherapy in 1965 and was filled by Dieter Wyss in 1968. In 1979, Holger H\u00f6hn was appointed to the Institute for Human Genetics, which had emerged from this chair. In 1978 the Institute for X-ray Diagnostics was established in the Medical Clinic under Extraordinarius H. Braun.\nIn 1973, over 10,000 students were enrolled at the University of W\u00fcrzburg, and the former conservatory became a university of music. In 1981, the University Library of W\u00fcrzburg moved into its new building on Hubland.\nOn 31 January 1983, a poisoned drink attack was carried out at the university. The drinks, which were mixed with thallium(I) sulfate, were put in front of a lecture hall together with a note declaring them as leftovers from a carnival party and donating them to the freshmen. The medical student Robert A. died as a result of the poisoning; eleven other students had to be treated in the hospital; the law student Peter S. sustained lasting damage. The perpetrator could never be identified.\nOn 12 April 2011, the university opened its new Campus North, right next to Hubland campus: An additional site of 39 hectares is now available for the future development of the university. Campus North used to be a US military base (Leighton Barracks). After the Americans withdrew in January 2009, the university had the opportunity to use part of the former barracks for itself. This conversion from military to civilian area made rapid progress, and the campus canteen was inaugurated in 2014.\nMiscellaneous.\nThe tower of Neubaukirche (university auditorium), with its height of 91 meters the city's tallest church tower, has one of the four carillons in Bavaria. Between Easter and Christmas, public concerts of about 30 minutes are given on it every Wednesday at 5:30\u00a0p.m.\nIn March 2016, JMU was the first university in Bavaria to be awarded the \"Bavaria barrier-free\" signet. The award was given for the removal of structural barriers, especially in new buildings, and for the establishment of the Information Center for People with Disabilities and Chronic Diseases (KIS), created in 2008.\nOn 7 January 2019, the online portal WueStudy of the University of W\u00fcrzburg was launched after a lengthy planning and processing phase. It replaces the former sb@home portal and uses the HISinOne software developed by the Hochschul-Informations-System.\nThe University and the city.\nToday, around 28,000 students are enrolled at the university. In addition, there are more than 8,600 students at the University of Applied Sciences W\u00fcrzburg-Schweinfurt, founded on 1 August 1971, and around 750 students at the University of Music. Thus, every fourth citizen of W\u00fcrzburg is a student.\nWith a total of more than 10,000 employees, the university and its hospital are among the largest employers in the region.\nDue to the university's history, its institutes and hospitals are spread over the entire city. Facilities are found in the following places, among others:\nRankings.\nThe University of W\u00fcrzburg has been ranked globally and nationally in several university rankings. As of 2024, the QS World University Rankings places the university at 440 globally and 23rd in Germany. According to the Times Higher Education World University Rankings for 2024, it is positioned at 175th globally and 17th nationally. In the 2023 ARWU World Rankings, the University of W\u00fcrzburg is within the 201\u2013300 range globally and within the 10\u201319 range nationally."}
{"id": "715156", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715156", "title": "Osvaldo Pugliese", "text": "Osvaldo Pedro Pugliese (December 2, 1905 \u2013 July 25, 1995) was an Argentine tango musician. He developed dramatic arrangements that retained strong elements of the walking beat of salon tango but also heralded the development of concert-style tango music. Some of his music, mostly since the 1950s, is used for theatrical dance performances. In Buenos Aires, Pugliese is often played later in the evening when the dancers want to dance more slowly, impressionistically and intimately.\nPersonal life.\nHis father, Don Adolfo Pugliese (1877\u20131945), pushed him to work harder; his mother, Aurelia Terragno (1880\u20131947), often whispered to her son while he was practicing, \"\u00a1Al Col\u00f3n!\" (\"To the Col\u00f3n!\"), referring to Buenos Aires' famous Teatro Col\u00f3n, where only the country's finest artists play. His other brothers \"Adolfo Vicente\" and \"Alberto Roque\" were violinists. He was married two times, to Mar\u00eda Concepci\u00f3n Florio and to Lydia Elman. His first wife died in 1971, and he had one daughter, Lucela Delma \"Beba\" Pugliese (b. 1939), a pianist in her own right.\nOrquesta Osvaldo Pugliese.\nIn 1918 he left primary school to work as a print graphic artist. His father finally convinced him to take classes with the teacher Antonio D'Agostino, at the Conservatorio Odeon.\nHe wrote his first tango, \"Recuerdo,\" in 1924, when he was 19. Two years later, when it was finally recorded, it became a classic. 'La yumba' (1946) is another famous and most popular Pugliese's tangos compositions.\nIn 1939 he formed his orchestra as a cooperative and made his debut at Caf\u00e9 El Nacional (980 Corrientes Avenue \u2013 \"Cathedral of Tango\") on 11 August 1939.\nThe orchestra toured the former Soviet Union in 1959 (eighty cities in three months \u2013 sometimes playing two or three shows a day) and also China (twenty-eight cities in another month), Chile (1990), Mexico, Columbia (1980), Peru, Cuba (1984, 1988, 1992), Japan (1965, 135 shows in five months; 1979, 1989), the U.S. (stopping in Chicago in 1979), the Middle East, France (1984), Portugal, Spain (1985; 1988 playing in Madrid, at Teatro Alb\u00e9niz with the singer Joan Manuel Serrat, and Barcelona), Belgium, The Netherlands (with Astor Piazzolla in Amsterdam, 29 June 1989), Finland and almost all South and Central American countries: Uruguay (1987, Sol\u00eds Theatre in Montevideo). For his work the maestro received high cultural distinctions, including from the Argentine, French and Cuban governments.\nTeatro Col\u00f3n concert (1985).\nAt age 80, he was allowed on 26 December 1985 to give a concert at the Teatro Col\u00f3n, in Buenos Aires. He received 5 standing ovations. With characteristic humility he said: \u201cThe truth is... it\u2019s a night of the people, of the masses, lovers of our genre, our beloved genre, tango.\u201d The ceremony was led by Luis Brandoni and H\u00e9ctor Larrea. The orchestra's members that night were: Roberto \u00c1lvarez, Alejandro Previgniano, Fabio Lapinta (bandoneons), Osvaldo Montermi, Fernando Rodr\u00edguez, Diego Lerendegui, Gabriel Rivas (violins), Merei Brain (Viola), Am\u00edlcar Tolosa (double bass) and Osvaldo Pugliese (piano).\nList of songs that were played:\n\u201cLa yumba\u201d was played with his old orchestra members:\nTango compositions.\nThe most famous tango composition of Osvaldo Pugliese are: Recuerdo (1924), Ausencia (Tango m\u00edo) (1931), El frenop\u00e1tico, Primera categor\u00eda, El encopao (1942), Reci\u00e9n (1943), Adi\u00f3s Bardi (1944), Una vez (1946), Igual que una sombra (1946), La yumba, Negracha (1948), Malandraca (1949), Milonga para Fidel (1961), Para Eduardo Arolas.\nThe first recording of \"Recuerdo\" was by the Julio De Caro orchestra, on December 9, 1926, in instrumental form. In 1927 the female singer Rosita Montemar recorded it sung for the first time, with the accompaniment of musicians from the V\u00edctor label. The Bianco-Bachicha orchestra recorded it instrumentally in Paris in 1928. And in 1930, the Orquesta T\u00edpica Victor, with the voice of Roberto D\u00edaz. All labels feature A. Pugliese. And even more, it still appears like this on the RCA-V\u00edctor 39776 album, from Ricardo Tanturi's version of 1942.\nThe famous tango \"Recuerdo \u2013 a los amigos\" was composed by Puglise in the honor of his friends: Torcuato Di Giorgio, Amadeo Pioriello, Alfredo Bianchi, Jose Tonareeli &amp; Rogelio Boisselier.\nPugliese had composed the immortal Recuerdo in 1924 \u2013 \u201ca tango for the year 3000\u201d, according to Julio De Caro, who premiered it in 1927\u2013 and performed with Paquita Bernardo, Alfredo Gobbi (h) and Elvino Vardaro: he was not a stranger, but a popular musician who put together that initial orchestra as a cooperative.\nPolitical views.\nPugliese was outspoken in his political opinions. His communist sympathies, though never violent, at times earned him the hostility of those in power.\n\u201cThe exact reason why Osvaldo Pugliese was imprisoned the first time was never known, a fact that did not occur during the Per\u00f3n government but before, in 1939, when he was preparing to debut with his orchestra at the inauguration of the new headquarters of the Communist Party\u201d...\"They wanted to punish the rebellion by imprisoning a prestigious figure on the left.\" according to the writer Enrique Medina. It is known: at the police station he was treated with respect, invited to drink mate in the officer's office and they went to look for \u201ctortitas negras\u201d, which he liked. After a few days, freedom, the expected debut now at the National Theater and the confession of the police that they had \"felt honored to be with such an artist.\"\nThe idea of the red carnation on the piano was born: if Pugliese was in prison, the orchestra played the same, without a pianist. It has been said that it was proposed by Negro Mella, then presenter and reciter and later replaced by Eduardo Moreno, the author of the lyrics of Recuerdo. However, other testimonies \u2013Petit de Murat, Garc\u00eda Jim\u00e9nez, Jauretche- pierced that story: yes, the carnation was placed on the piano, but many times Don Osvaldo appeared later, gave the flower to some lady in the audience.\nHe was a member of the Communist Party starting in 1936. He also managed to help create \"Sociedad de M\u00fasicos y Artistas Afines\" to increase job stability and wages for musicians.\nIn 1956, he was imprisoned by the dictatorship of the Revoluci\u00f3n Libertadora in the so-called \"Operation Cardenal\", together with the entire Central Committee of the Communist Party. They were locked up in the ship \"Par\u00eds\", which was to be sunk with them inside. That night, Pugliese's orchestra had to appear on Radio Splendid, and they appeared without their conductor, and with a red carnation on the piano as a protest.\nThe imprisonment of Rodolfo Ghioldi and Oreste Castronuovo, among other anonymous militants, in a Pugliese's ship, and the rumors that it was going to be sunk, generated so much commotion that they had to be released.\nIn 1961, he wrote \"Milonga Para Fidel\" to show his support for the Cuban revolution. When he was in jail, he still wrote arrangements and the orchestra still performed, and placed a red carnation on the keyboard of the piano in his honor.\nThe 1960s government of the late General Juan Carlos Ongan\u00eda (who had a deep fear of Peronists and communists alike) simply banned Pugliese from radio broadcasts and public places.\nPugliese was a man of integrity and humility. He spent years in jail due to his beliefs. The government also restricted his recordings to 10 per year. As a communist, he organised his orchestra as a cooperative and paid his members by their contribution, earning their loyalty. Quite rare, his core orchestra members (Osvaldo Ruggiero 1st bandoneon, Enrique Camerano 1st violin, Julio Carrasco and Oscar Herrero 2nd violins, Alcides Rossi on double bass) stayed with him nearly 30 years (1939\u20131968).\nIn 1955 Pugliese was imprisoned in Devoto from January to July, and in that prison he was seen, with a mop and bucket, cleaning corridors, refusing to let other detainees take away that work.\nDon Osvaldo was never an agitator, but a man with convictions who never confused art with ideology. It happened that in certain political stages of Argentina, due to his popularity, they considered him a \"war booty\".\nAt the end of 1973, a few months before Peron died, the founder of Justicialismo organized an artistic show to which he invited figures such as Horacio Guarany, Mercedes Sosa, Edmundo Rivero and Osvaldo Pugliese. The next noon there was a lunch in Olivos, and there Per\u00f3n got up, went to Pugliese and extended his hand:\n\"I want to apologize, teacher, for those little matters that we had pending...\"\nThe musician accepted the greeting and replied:\n\"Don't worry. Everything is already forgotten.\"\nPer\u00f3n looked him in the eye raised his voice:\n\"Only greats like you know how to forgive.\"\nDeath.\nHe died after a short illness on 25 July 1995 at 89 years old. His remains are in Chacarita Cemetery in an imposing mausoleum, the work of Juan Carlos Ferraro (1997), which was made thanks to the generous contribution of his fans. His funeral received great attention with an impressive caravan that marched in reverse along Corrientes Avenue.\n\"San Pugliese\".\nIt is said that during a Charly Garc\u00eda recital a series of situations and technical problems were triggered that delayed the start of the show. The sound was not working well, until someone from the team tried to do a test with a record of Maestro Pugliese. Everything began to improve and Charly gave the show. Hence the myth of good luck that the invocation of the musician brought.\nIn 2000, five years after Pugliese's death, the musician Alberto Mu\u00f1oz wrote a prayer to pray to the tango patron saint.\nOther artists, including Le\u00f3n Gieco and Javier Calamaro, acknowledged that they invoked the musician born on December 2, 1905, to ward off any inconvenience. \"We always mention Pugliese\", Gieco sings in \"Los Salieris de Charly\", a song dated 1992. Sebasti\u00e1n Bianchini, from the Tree group, composed an ironic song dedicated to Pugliese (\"Suerte\")\n\"It seems that mixing his musical activity with the political would mean making it dirty, but he never loses sight of this ethical-aesthetic relationship that he has known how to project and shape in his interlocutors\", said Mar\u00eda Mercedes Liska\nIn the image of \"Saint Pugliese\" the artist and the man committed to society are synthesized, without his name being at the mercy of the negative connotations of politics.\nFilmography.\nHe participated as an actor in the films:"}
{"id": "715157", "revid": "29463730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715157", "title": "Pochinkovsky District", "text": "Pochinkovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715160", "revid": "47978561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715160", "title": "Aristotle University of Thessaloniki", "text": "The Aristotle University of Thessaloniki ( AUTh; ), often called the University of Thessaloniki, is the fifth oldest tertiary education institution in Greece. Named after the philosopher Aristotle, who was born in Stageira, about east of Thessaloniki, it is the largest university in Greece and its campus covers in the centre of Thessaloniki, with additional educational and administrative facilities elsewhere.\nAs of 2023, it has approximately 88,283 active students enrolled at the university (77,198 at the undergraduate level and 6,588 in postgraduate programmes of which 3,952 at doctoral level) and 2,366 faculty members. There are additionally 248 members of the Laboratory Teaching Staff and 213 members of the Special Technical Laboratory Staff. The administrative staff consists of 400 permanent employees and 528 subcontractor employees that are contracted by the university.\nThe language of instruction is Greek, although there are programs in foreign languages and courses for international students, which are carried out in English, French, German and Italian.\nHistory.\nThe Aristotle University of Thessaloniki was founded in 1925 during the premiership of Alexandros Papanastassiou and was legislated under Law 3341/14-6-25. It was the first Greek university to be founded outside of Athens. The university was built on top of the remains of what had once been the Jewish cemetery in Thessaloniki, until the cemetery's destruction during the Nazi occupation. Gravestones from the Jewish cemetery were used as building materials in the construction of the university.\nAccording to Eleftherios Venizelos' plans following the end of the World War\u00a0I, Smyrna was intended to be the seat of the second Greek university, while the third university was to be established in Thessaloniki. However, Smyrna was not part of Greece at the time and the plans fell through after the outcome of the Greco-Turkish War in Asia Minor. Nevertheless, in 1924, Alexandros Papanastassiou decided to found a university in Thessaloniki in order to boost the local economy and culture.\nThe chronological development of the university, which was renamed the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in 1954, can be divided into three stages, each covering a period of approximately 25 years.\nFirst stage (1926\u20131950).\nDuring the first stage of its operation (1926\u20131950), the development focused on those schools which were generally accepted as constituting one educational institute, namely the Faculty of Philosophy, the Faculty of Physics and Mathematics, the Faculty of Law and Economics, the School of Theology and the Medical School. The first stage of development ended with the foundation of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in 1950, which was the only faculty of veterinary medicine in Greece for many years. After this period, some of the aforementioned faculties were extended by integrating more departments. In more detail, the Departments of Pharmacy and Dentistry were founded in 1955 and 1959 respectively and they were incorporated into the Medical School. Moreover, the Faculty of Philosophy was expanded by integrating the Institutes of Foreign Languages (English, French, German and Italian).\nSecond stage (1951\u20131975).\nDuring the second stage (1951\u20131975) the focal point of development was the Faculty of Engineering, also known as the Polytechnic Faculty. At the beginning, this faculty constituted an independent institute also called the Polytechnic or Technical University. Therefore, for the first fifty years of its operation the Aristotle University consisted of two distinct institutes which operated independently. Subsequently, these two educational institutes were unified. The various schools within the Faculty of Engineering were founded in the following order: School of Civil Engineering (1955\u201356), School of Architecture (1956\u201357), School of Rural and Surveying Engineering (1962\u201363), School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering (1972\u201373), School of Chemical Engineering (1972\u201373), School of Mathematics, Physics and Computational Sciences (1982\u201383) and School of Urban-Regional Planning and Development Engineering (2004). The School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering was split in two independent schools (School of Mechanical Engineering and School of Electrical and Computer Engineering) in 1976.\nThird stage (1975\u2013present).\nFinally, during the third stage of its development (1975-today), new schools and departments were founded along with the aforementioned engineering schools. Moreover, the university acquired a small number of departments which operated in the past as independent institutes of higher education. During this period, the Faculty of Fine Arts was established, along with all its constituent schools (Drama, Film Studies, Music Studies, Visual and Applied Arts). Additionally, the School of Journalism and Mass Media Studies and the School of Physical Education and Sports Sciences were created as independent schools. Overall, the third stage of development of the Aristotle University is characterized not only by the establishment of new faculties, schools and departments, but also by many major changes in the structure of the university itself. These changes include the downgrade of some former faculties into schools or departments and the upgrade of others.\nToday, the Aristotle University comprises 12 faculties, 36 schools, and numerous other units (e.g. laboratories, study rooms, libraries, clinics and research centres), which make it the largest university in Greece and southeastern Europe in terms of number of staff, undergraduate and postgraduate students and the facilities offered. According to the significant Jewish past and present of Thessaloniki the Aristotle University planned together with the Jewish community of Thessaloniki in 2014, the reopening of the Faculty of Jewish Studies. A former Jewish faculty was abolished 80 years before by the Greek dictator Ioannis Metaxas. This new faculty took in October 2015, her work on with leading professor Georgios Antoniou. \nOn the university campus a monument commemorating the old Jewish cemetery was unveiled in 2014. The monument consists of grave stones in a bed of grass alongside a broken Jewish menorah. The campus was built partially on this old cemetery. The memorial has been vandalized several times.\nEmblem.\nThe emblem of the Aristotle University is St. Demetrius of Thessaloniki.\nDepartments and faculties.\nThe university consists of eleven faculties, consisting of 41 schools.\nHistory and affiliations of schools\nResearch.\nThe Aristotle University of Thessaloniki performs a great deal of research in a variety of scientific fields. It is in constant and close cooperation with universities, organizations and research centres both in Greece and abroad. The large number of its faculties and its approximately 250 laboratories enable scientists of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki to carry out a variety of research projects with great success. During the past 12 years, 4500 research programs were undertaken and realized with the participation of more than 10,000 members of the academic community and several external collaborators.\nDuring the past three years, 985 researchers \u2013 distinguished scientists \u2013 have provided educational and research services in collaboration with a total of 7,263 external scientific associates for the implementation of 3,151 International, European and National Research and Technological Development (RTD) projects. 1,436 of these partners were universities, research centers and organizations, while 405 were businesses.\nBased on recent data from international ranking lists, of 20,372 higher institutions in the world, AUTh moved from the 407th position in 2011 to the 158th in 2012, ranking first among 23 Greek universities. As of 2011, Greece ranks first in the lists for the expenditure per publication per capita as a percentage of GNP, and second (following Ireland) in regard to the amount invested in scientific publications per country (Nature \"Top Countries 2011: Scientific Publications\").\nIn terms of promoting innovation, 32 Patents have been granted during the last 3 years on a national, European and international level.\nFinally, AUTh is currently involved in establishing new infrastructure, setting up technology transfer systems, and creating an Interdisciplinary Research Center, in order to facilitate the selection process, as well as the implementation, placement and financing of research projects.\nThe A.U.TH. Research Committee is a university body which coordinates the research done at the university. It was established in order to satisfy the special needs of research activity and to administer the \"Special Account of Research Funds\", allocating funding resources to different research programs.\nRankings and academic evaluation.\nAristotle University of Thessaloniki is among the most prestigious universities in Greece.\nAn external evaluation of all academic departments in Greek universities was conducted by the Hellenic Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agency (HQA), giving it the \"Worthy of merit\" final overall evaluation.\nDespite the university's good reputation within Greece, internationally the university currently performs averagely on major international rankings. Once best university in Greece, it is currently ranked 650-700th in the latest (2023) QS rankings, further progressing to the 530th place for the year 2024, and 801-1000th in Times Higher Education. Also, the university is placed amongst the universities with the best graduate employability in Greece, being placed only in the 501+ range in the world in world graduate employability rankings. Finally, CWTS Leiden ranking places AUTh as the 299th best university in the world for the year 2023.\nOrganization and administration.\nThe Aristotle University is one of Greece's public universities and therefore it is a legal entity with full self governance. It is primarily state-funded and functions under the supervision of the Greek Ministry of National Education and Religious Affairs. Other financial resources for the university are donations from individuals, participation in various EU research programmes and profits generated through management of the university assets. It is important to note that no fees are charged to the students of the university, except for international students studying medicine in English. With tuition fees reaching up to \u20ac6000 per semester.\nThe university administration consists of departments that make decisions within the framework of Greek law. The main objectives of the administration are to ensure the proper function of the university and to benefit the academic community as a whole.\nHierarchy.\nEvery Greek public university comprises the faculties and the faculties comprise the schools. A school covers a basic scientific area and thus is considered to be the basic academic unit. Every school is subdivided into departments, which are responsible for the teaching of a specific part of the school's scientific area. Moreover, schools have substantial autonomy in educational matters and therefore they are mainly responsible for planning and implementing educational programs and granting degrees.\nAdministrative authorities.\nUniversity Senate.\nThe highest administrative authority is the University Senate. It consists of the following members (senators):\nRector's Council.\nThe second highest administrative authority is the Rector's Council, which comprises the rector, the three vice-rectors, one student representative and one representative of the administration staff. Each member of the Rector's Council is elected every five years.\nRector.\nThe rector is the president of the University Senate and the main representative of the university in various national and international bodies. Moreover, he or she is responsible for developing an overall strategy for the development of the university and for implementing the decisions taken by the Senate and the Rector's Council. Both the rector and the three vice-rectors are elected every three years in university-wide elections where all faculty, staff and student representatives vote. Each vice-rector has different administrative responsibilities, among which are: staff management, financial planning and development, academic affairs.\nFaculty, school and department administrative bodies.\nEvery faculty, school and department has its own administrative body, the members of which are democratically elected on the basis of collective processes. In more detail, decisions on academic, financial and administrative matters within a single department are made by the department's general assembly, which consists of faculty members and student representatives. The decision-making process often involves the creation of ad hoc committees.\nStaff.\nThe university staff is divided into five main categories:\nThe educational work is also exercised by people who do not belong to the university staff, such as guest professors and generally scientists who are invited to teach specific courses.\nUniversity units.\nThe campus of the Aristotle University covers 230,000 square metres and is located near the centre of the city of Thessaloniki. The majority of the university units is found inside the campus, but there are also various institutions, laboratories, and facilities of the university which are located outside the campus such as the Centre of Byzantine Researches, veterinary clinics, the university farm, and forest reserves. The following are some of the most important university units of the Aristotle University:\nLibrary.\nThe Aristotle University Library was founded in 1927 and is constituted of two main elements: The Central Library is housed in a separate building at the centre of the university campus; \"departmental libraries\" are owned by a university department. These two elements comprise the A.U.Th. library system, where more than 800,000 book titles and 300,000 volumes of periodicals can be found. The A.U.Th. library subscribes to 3,500 periodicals from all over the world.\nThe Central Library has a reading room for students and a reading room for university researchers and teaching personnel. The students' reading room has a capacity of approximately 1,300 students and can be used by any student who brings and reads his own books.\nEvery department of the university has its own departmental library where students can find books, periodicals, and information concerning the specific subjects their department deals with. Every departmental library has a reading room whose opening hours are determined according to the needs of the department's students and staff.\nThe Aristotle University Library is nowadays the second largest library in Greece, after the National Library. Since 1976 the library has been a member of International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), which enables it to lend and borrow books from libraries all over the world.\nStudent Club.\nThe University Student Club is housed in a private building located on the eastern side of the campus and plays a very important role in student life. Inside the Student Club is a restaurant, a reading room, a medical service, a snack bar, and a hairdresser's shop. There is also a musical department and a photography club.\nThe Student Club is responsible for the catering and medical care of the students of A.U.Th. and University of Macedonia. Every day it caters for approximately 12,000 students. Among its other responsibilities, it also organizes artistic, cultural and athletic events and maintains a chorus and a musical department.\nSports centre.\nThe university gym is located on the eastern side of the university campus, next to the Student Club. It covers an area of 220,000 square metres and was initially founded in 1925, the same year as the university. Since then it has been transferred several times until 1978 when it was finally settled at its present position. Inside the university Sports Centre there is a football field, basketball and tennis courts, handball courts and many more facilities for dancing, weight lifting, ping pong and so on. The National and Poseidonion swimming pools are used for water sports such as swimming, water polo, water aerobics, and synchronized swimming.\nThe students participating in the sports programs of the centre can take part in the internal championships organized by the Sports Centre or in the inter-university national championships organized by the Sports Committee of the Higher Education in Greece. The A.U.Th. has always participated in these national championships with great success.\nResidence halls.\nAristotle University of Thessaloniki owns three branches of residence halls for AUTh students with a capacity of 1,740 students; they are administered by the National Youth Foundation. They include reading rooms, sport facilities, restaurants, caf\u00e9 etc. Two branches are in the city centre, one in \"40 Ekklisies\" near the campus and one in the former \"Egnatia\" Hotel in Vardaris. The third branch is located in Kalamaria.\nThe residence halls are reserved for students with special needs, such as members of low-income or large families, as well as some foreign students.\nSeismological Station.\nThe Aristotle University Seismological Station was founded in 1978 and is used since then for the detection and measurement of earthquakes that occur nationwide and worldwide. It is mainly used by researchers of the geophysics sector, which is a part of the Department of Geology of A.U.Th.\nThe Station's main objective is to monitor Greece's seismic activity, record and analyze the earthquakes that occur in 24-hour base, and inform the public when necessary. This is an important task given that Greece has powerful seismic activity. The personnel of the station is constituted of professors and specialized scientists with a great deal of experience concerning seismological matters.\nOne of the station's primary roles is to conduct tours for the public and familiarize it with the earthquake phenomenon and how it can be dealt with. This helps to achieve better protection of the public against earthquakes.\nFinally, the seismological station promotes collaboration on issues of seismological interest with a lot of other Greek and European institutions. It is also a source of information for international seismological centres concerning the seismic activity of the Mediterranean region, but also of the entire world.\nFarm and Forest Reserves.\nThe University Farm covers an area of 1.9 square kilometres and is located in the south side of Thessaloniki near the city airport. It was ceded to the Aristotle University by the Greek Ministry of Agriculture in order to cover the research and educational needs of the School of Agriculture.\nInside the farm there are 21 buildings, two of which are used throughout the whole year as convention centres where conferences, events, presentations and lectures take place. The rest 19 buildings house laboratories of the School of Agriculture, where research and educational activities take place. Furthermore, the farm is used by staff and students of the School of Agriculture in order to grow experimental crops, breed animals and conduct laboratory excises.\nThe farm is managed by a Board of Directors, which consists of three professors, one laboratory director, and one representative of the people working at the farm. It is elected every two years and its president is the president of the School of Agriculture.\nThe University Forest Reserves cover a total area of 88 square kilometres. The first one is located on the Pindus mountain range at an altitude of 1,100 to 1,200 metres and covers approximately 33 square kilometres. The second one is located in Chalkidiki at an altitude of 300 to 1,200 metres and covers approximately 55 square kilometres. Both of these university forests are used by the Faculty of Forestry and Natural Environment in order to conduct research and student training. Inside the forests there are special buildings where staff and students can stay overnight.\nCamping facilities.\nThe University Camp was initially founded in 1960. It is now located in Poseidi, Chalkidiki, in a very beautiful place by the sea, full of pine trees. It opens its gates every year during the summer period for the students and the staff of the A.U.Th. The camp consists of a restaurant, a small grocery store, a bar, basketball and beach volley courts, and many more sport and entertainment facilities.\nSchool of Modern Greek Language.\nThe School of Modern Greek Language functions under the supervision of the Department of Philosophy since 1970. It offers courses of Modern Greek Language and Greek Culture to foreign students who wish to learn the Greek language and/or intend to study in a Greek University. The main objective of the school is to familiarize its students with the Greek culture, tradition, and customs.\nInstitute of Modern Greek Studies.\nThe Institute of Modern Greek Studies was established in 1959 with the support of Manolis Triantafyllidis' bursary. The institute is housed in the building of the Faculty of Philosophy and is practically a branch of it. Its main mission is the advance of science and the promotion of Greek education and philology. This mission is accomplished mainly through the publication of books concerning Greek language, philology and literature. A board of directors comprising seven members manages the institute. Six of them are professors from the Faculty of Philosophy and one from the Faculty of Law.\nCentre for Byzantine Research.\nThe Centre for Byzantine Research was established in 1966 by a group of professors of AUTh. Its main aim is to study Byzantine history, law, art and culture, as well as the training of graduates and specialized researchers in Byzantine studies. The Centre coordinates a variety of research programs and collaborates with many other foreign and domestic institutions. Furthermore, it frequently organizes scientific meetings and conferences and it also publishes a special periodical called \"\u0392\u03a5\u0396\u0391\u039d\u03a4\u0399\u039d\u0391\". The Centre for Byzantine Research is managed by a five-member administrative council.\nStudent services.\nCareer Services Office.\nThe Career Services Office of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki was established in 1997 and its main objective is to help students and graduates take decisions concerning their future studies and career. It provides support and information about a variety of subjects including: undergraduate and postgraduate studies in Greek or foreign universities, available scholarships, student mobility programs (IAESTE, SOCRATES etc.), labor market in Greece and abroad, job vacancies and many more. There is also a group of specially trained personnel, which provides advice and guidance to students and graduates on decision making, CV compilation, job interviews and job application.\nThe Career Services Office organizes regularly career seminars inviting professionals from different scientific fields to lecture about their jobs and the status of the job market. These career seminars appear to be very helpful because they give students and graduates a chance to get in contact with people of different professions and acquire information about their experiences and accomplishments.\nInformation Technology Centre.\nThe Information Technology Centre of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki was established in the beginning of 1998 under the financial support of the Greek Ministry of Education and the European Union. Its mission is to provide the academic community of the university with a variety of computer facilities, such as client\u2013server applications, host-based applications, High Performance Computing and many more. It also provides technical support via email, phone or fax to all AUTH members and takes care of central backup issues, site licensing matters, maintenance contracts, etc. ITC regularly organizes seminars on topics of computer science, popular software packages and the usage of the university infrastructure. Some of the services provided by ITC to AUTH members are listed below:\nStudents of the university who have special knowledge and experience on IT can apply to ITC and work part-time.\nNetwork Operations Centre.\nThe Network Operations Centre is responsible for managing the data network of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. It was established in 1995 under the supervision of the Data Network Committee of the university. NOC's main objective is to provide quality network services to the academic community of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Among many services, NOC also provides the following:\nNOC's staff consists mainly of network specialists, undergraduate students working part-time as network technicians and undergraduate students as trainees. It is mainly funded by the Greek state and the European Union, as it participates in a variety of European Union programs.\nStudent social support.\nThe students of AUTH are supported by two independent institutions: The Social Policy Committee and the Student Counseling and Guidance Service.\nThe Social Policy Committee aims at solving a variety of problems the students may face and thus improve academic life on campus. It was established by the University Rector's Council in September 1997 and since then it has offered its services to a great number of students. These services are briefly listed below:\nThe Student Counseling and Guidance Service provides mainly psychological support and counseling to students on a variety of issues including social and academic life, family problems, adjustment difficulties, emotional problems etc. It also organizes seminars and on a regular basis that deal with stress handling, exam preparation, study time organization and many more. With the help of the Student Counseling and Guidance Service students can more easily adapt to student life and surpass any problems or difficulties. All these services are provided to students free of charge.\nHealth care services.\nAll students of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (Greek or foreign, undergraduate or postgraduate) are provided with health insurance which covers free medical care. This means that hospitalization and medication are provided free of charge. The insurance is valid for the entire period of studies, as long as it doesn't last more than one and a half times its normal duration. Every student who wants to receive free medical care must possess his personal health insurance booklet which is issued and renewed every year by the secretary of the department he/she studies in. Among others, health insurance provides: medical examination, dental examination, physiotherapy, etc.\nStudent unions.\nEvery department of the university has a corresponding student union, and all students belonging to the department have the right to register as members. The main objective of a student union is to solve students' problems that can either be related to academic life or have a general political and social nature. Furthermore, student unions organize and support numerous activities such as political debates, educational lectures, cultural and artistic events, conferences, demonstrations, university occupations and so on.\nThe structure of a student union is rather simple and comprises two bodies: The general assembly and the board of directors. The General Assembly consists of all student-members of the union. It takes place on a regular basis and is the only decision-making body. During the general assembly, many topics of student interest are discussed and the decisions are taken after open vote. The board of directors makes sure that the decisions of the general assembly will be materialized. Moreover, the members of the board of directors, among which is the union's president, participate in various university administrative bodies as representatives of all students in the union.\nEvery year in early spring the student elections take place nationwide, during which students vote for their representatives.\nAll student unions in Greece are members of the \"National Student Union of Greece\" (\u0395\u03a6\u0395\u0395 \u2013 \u0395\u03b8\u03bd\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u03a6\u03bf\u03b9\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u0388\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7 \u0395\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac\u03b4\u03b1\u03c2). Moreover, all Student Unions of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki form the \"Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Student Union\" (\u03a6\u0395\u0391\u03a0\u0398 \u2013 \u03a6\u03bf\u03b9\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u0388\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7 \u0391\u03c1\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b5\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03a0\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bc\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u0398\u03b5\u03c3\u03c3\u03b1\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd\u03af\u03ba\u03b7\u03c2). Both unions, \u0395\u03a6\u0395\u0395 and \u03a6\u0395\u0391\u03a0\u0398, are inactive since 1995.\nArt and culture.\nOrchestra.\nThe A.U.Th. Orchestra was established in February 1999 and since then it has participated in a lot of concerts held all over Greece. Since its establishment the interest of the students in it has rapidly increased. The orchestra gives regular concerts for the public of Thessaloniki during the national holidays (25 March, 26 October, etc.) and participates in international festivals and events.\nChorus.\nThe official name of the Aristotle University Chorus is \"J. Mandakas Chorus\", named after its founder, John Mandakas, who created it in 1953. Nowadays the chorus plays a very important role in the musical and cultural life of the city of Thessaloniki and Greece generally. It also has a constant presence in musical events held all over the world, gaining not only national but also international recognition. For more than 50 years, the A.U.Th. Chorus has given the opportunity to more than 4000 students and other members of the academic community to cultivate their musical talent and to develop strong bonds of friendship and collaboration.\nThe chorus participates regularly in concerts held during national holidays, various events and festivals (Dimetria, Athens Festival etc.). It also organizes and participates in a lot of meetings of Greek and foreign choruses and orchestras. Finally it has published numerous CDs and DVDs and made a lot of recordings for the Greek national television and radio.\nThe chorus has contributed decisively in the development of choral music in Greece and in the familiarization of the Greek public with it through the presentation of hundreds of musical works. Furthermore, it has presented many Greek compositions for the first time to the public, helping the Greek composers to achieve international recognition for their compositions.\nSince 1964, the Aristotle University Chorus is a member of Europa Cantat, the European Federation of Choruses for young people. The rehearsals take place inside the Student club with the participation of the university Orchestra.\nStudent Week.\nThe Student Week is a cultural event organized annually inside the university campus. It actually lasts for three or four weeks and is organized by more than 60 student groups, whose interests include dance, music, theater, cinema, sports, poetry, comics, etc. This event is open not only to all the members of the academic community of A.U.Th., but also to all the citizens of Thessaloniki.\nIts main objective is to promote students' talents in art and culture and to encourage the free artistic expression of the students as individuals or as a group. It also aims at strengthening the human relations between the students and the personnel of the university. The interest of the students in the Student Week has been rapidly increasing since its establishment in 1999.\nTeloglion Fine Arts Foundation.\nThe Teloglion Fine Arts Foundation was founded in 1972 with the donation of the entire fortune, along with a very rich art collection, of Nestor and Aliki Teloglou to the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. This art collection is now exhibited in a separate building located in the northern side of the university campus. The foundation is a non-profit organization supervised by the Aristotle University and directed by a board of Trustees composed mainly of university professors.\nThe art collection included mainly works of Greek artists during the 19th and 20th century and has now been enriched thanks to further donations made by famous persons and artists. At present, the collection includes works from various ancient civilizations, such as statuettes and pottery from the Hellenistic period, Corinthian and Roman pottery, Persian miniatures, Islamic and Chinese vases and dishes, etc. It also includes pieces from modern artists such as the monumental work of art \"The World of Cyprus\" by Diamandis.\nThe foundation's mission is to support all art related studies and research and help the public familiarize itself with art and culture. This is achieved through the organization of numerous conferences, seminars and exhibitions of the museum's artworks.\nStudent cultural groups.\nThere is a variety of student cultural groups that deal with Drama, Fine Arts, Music, Cinema, Chess, Debate, Comics etc. The cultural groups frequently organize events in which the work of the participants is presented to the public. These events can be theatrical plays, music concerts, debates, chess competitions, art exhibitions and many more. Every student can participate in any cultural group he/she likes and express his talent through art.\nParticipation in international organizations.\nThe Aristotle University of Thessaloniki participates in the following International Organizations, Unions and University Networks:\nStudent Unions"}
{"id": "715162", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715162", "title": "University of Turku", "text": "The University of Turku (, shortened \"UTU\") is a multidisciplinary public university with eight faculties located in the city of Turku in southwestern Finland. The university also has campuses in Rauma and Pori and research stations in Kevo and Sj\u00e4l\u00f6.\nEstablished in 1920, the university is the third largest in the country as measured by student enrollment, after the University of Helsinki and Tampere University. It is a member of the Coimbra Group and the European Campus of City-Universities (EC2U).\nHistory.\nRoyal Academy of Turku.\nThe first university established in Turku was the Royal Academy of Turku, founded on March 26, 1640, by Queen Christina of Sweden at the suggestion of Count Per Brahe. It originated from the Turku Cathedral School, which had been established in 1276. The Royal Academy was the third university in the Swedish Empire and the only one in Finland during the period of Swedish rule.\nIn 1809, after Russia's victory over Sweden in the Finnish War, Finland was annexed by Russia as the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland. To reduce Swedish influence and move the capital closer to Saint Petersburg, Finland's capital was relocated from Turku to Helsinki on April 8, 1812. Following the Great Fire of Turku in 1827, the Royal Academy was also transferred to Helsinki, where it eventually became the modern University of Helsinki. For the remainder of the 19th century, Turku did not have a university.\nUniversity of Turku.\nIn 1918, university-level teaching returned to Turku with the founding of \u00c5bo Akademi, an exclusively Swedish-speaking institution. This prompted the Finnish intelligentsia to establish a university where Finnish would be the language of instruction\u2014the first of its kind in Finland. As a result, the modern University of Turku was founded on \"Kalevala\" Day (February 28) in 1920. A total of 22,040 people contributed to the fundraising campaign. Finland\u2019s newly gained independence and the success of the campaign are reflected in the university's motto: \"The gift of a free people to free science.\"\nThe first premises of the University of Turku were in the centre of the city, by the market square. In the 1950s a new campus was built on (\"Russian Hill\" \u2013 now known as University Hill). In the 1960s the university started to expand rapidly, a process that still continues.\nThe university was made a public institution in 1974.\nSince 1995 the University of Turku has been a member of the Coimbra Group. In 2017, the university became a member of The European Campus of City-Universities (EC2U).\nIn January 2010, the Turku School of Economics merged with the University of Turku, forming a seventh faculty of the university. \nIn 2021, the Faculty of Technology was established as the eighth faculty of the university.\nEnrollment.\nThe university has approximately 22,000 degree students. Bachelor\u2019s, master\u2019s and doctoral degrees are offered both in Finnish and in English. The largest faculties are the Faculty of Humanities and the Faculty of Science and Technology.\nThe University is a home for The University of Turku Graduate School (UTUGS) which consists of doctoral programmes covering all disciplines. The graduate school has approximately 2,000 doctoral candidates pursuing a PhD.\nFaculties.\nThere are altogether eight faculties in the University of Turku:\nIn addition to the faculties, the research and learning activities at the university take place in five independent units: Brahea Centre of the University of Turku, Centre for Language and Communication Studies, Turku PET Centre, Finnish Centre for Astronomy with ESO and Turku Bioscience Centre.\nOrganization.\nThe university management consists of the Board, The Rector and the vice rectors and the University Collegiate Council.\n\"The Board\" is the highest decision-making organ of the university and is made up of 10 members from academia, society and studentship.Organisation and Management of the University of Turku | University of Turku It develops the university's operating processes and approves plans concerning its financing and activities; it decide on the guidelines of granting appropriations; it give its opinion in any matters of significance that concern the university in principle and the Board approves the service regulations and other similar rules.\n\"The Rector\" directs the activities and processes of the university and solves any issues concerning its general management. The Rector represents the university and uses the university's right to speak in courts of law and in dealings with the authorities. Professor Marjo Kaartinen is currently the elected Rector.\nThe University Collegiate Council consists of 30 members: ten professors, ten other teaching and research personnel and other staff and ten students.\nCampus area.\nThe University of Turku shares a campus with \u00c5bo Akademi University and elements of Turku Science Park. The area also encompasses Turku University Hospital (TYKS) and the Student Village. The Main Building and the surrounding complex was built in the fifties on what became known as the University Hill. The campus is constantly expanding, the latest example is the Medisiina D building which houses the facilities of the Faculty of Medicine. The university also owns the Botanic Garden at Ruissalo as well as the research station at the Island of Seili. In addition to the campus area in Turku, the university also has campus areas in the nearby cities of Pori and Rauma.\nResearch.\nAs defined in its strategy 2030, the university's multidisciplinary research is profiled through six thematic areas which are biodiversity and sustainability; future technologies and digital society; cultural memory and social change; children, young people and learning; health, diagnostics and drug development; and sea and maritime studies.\nThe University of Turku has been involved in many research projects in the Peruvian Amazon. With the Peruvian Amazon Research Institute (\"Instituto de Investigaciones de la Amazon\u00eda Peruana \u2013 IIAP\"), based in Iquitos, has been studying the Amazon in the BIODAMAZ Project.\nThe university is an active member of the University of the Arctic. UArctic is an international cooperative network based in the Circumpolar Arctic region, consisting of more than 200 universities, colleges, and other organizations with an interest in promoting education and research in the Arctic region.\nThe university participates in UArctic's mobility program north2north. The aim of that program is to enable students of member institutions to study in different parts of the North.\nChancellors.\nThe Chancellor, appointed by the President of Finland upon proposal of the Finnish Government, was to promote science and scholarship, look after the general interests of the university and supervise its activities. The Chancellor confirmed the standing orders and other corresponding general regulations of the university. The most visible task of the Chancellor was the appointment of the Professors and the Docents of the university. Professor Pekka Puska was the last person to hold this position until it was abolished based on the decision of the University Board. The duties were reassigned to the Rector."}
{"id": "715163", "revid": "51769868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715163", "title": "Juan d'Arienzo", "text": "Juan d'Arienzo (December 14, 1900 \u2013 January 14, 1976) was an Argentine tango musician, also known as \"El Rey del Comp\u00e1s\" (\"King of the Beat\"). He was a violinist, band leader, and composer.\nHe was the son of Italian immigrants and used more modern arrangements and instrumentation; his popular group produced hundreds of recordings.\nHis first memorable performance was in 1919 at the Nacional theater during the comic play by Alberto Novi\u00f3n, \"El cabaret Montmartre\".\nHe received the nickname Rey del Comp\u00e1s (King of the Beat), from Pr\u00edncipe Cubano, at the Florida cabaret when he was replacing Osvaldo Fresedo. He said:\n\"Mine was always a tough orchestra, with a very swinging, much nervous, vibrant beat. And it was that way because tango, for me, has three things: beat, impact and nuances. An orchestra ought to have, above all, life. That is why mine lasted more than fifty years. And when the Prince gave me that title, I thought that it was OK, that he was right.\"\nHis music is played often at milongas in Buenos Aires.\nHis recordings were accompanied by singers: Alberto Echag\u00fce, Armando Laborde, H\u00e9ctor Maure, Jorge Valdez, Alberto Reynal, Antonio Prieto, Carlos Casares, Carlos Dante, Enrique Carbel, Francisco Fiorentino, Horacio Palma, H\u00e9ctor Mill\u00e1n, Mario Bustos, Juan Carlos Lamas, Libertad Lamarque, Mercedes Serrano, Raquel Notar, Osvaldo Ramos, Roberto Lemos and Walter Cabral.\nHe recorded more than 1000 tangos, milongas and fast valses, wrote lyrics for 3 tangos, composed 46 tangos.\nThere are more than 6700 different transfers of recordings by Juan D'Arienzo taken from 78-RPM, LP, CD and digital transfers listed in the TANGO-DJ.AT Database, featuring extensive meta data and soundsamples for supporting members. \nHe is interred in the La Chacarita Cemetery in Buenos Aires, Argentina.\nFilmography.\nJuan D'Arienzo participated in several movies:"}
{"id": "715164", "revid": "50130126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715164", "title": "University of Coimbra", "text": "The University of Coimbra (UC) is a public research university in Coimbra, Portugal. Officially chartered by King Denis on March 1, 1290, and recognised by Pope Nicholas IV on August 9, 1290, it is the oldest university in Portugal and one of the world's oldest in continuous operations, having begun operations in Lisbon before moving permanently to Coimbra in 1537. It had an influential role in the development of higher education in the Portuguese-speaking countries, and in their history. Due to its historic influence, architecture, unique culture and traditions, it was declared in 2013 a World Heritage Site by UNESCO.\nThe university is organized into eight faculties, granting bachelor's (\"licenciatura\"), master's (\"mestrado\") and doctorate (\"doutoramento\") degrees in nearly all major fields. It lends its name to the Coimbra Group of European research universities founded in 1985, of which it was a founding member. Enrolling over 25,000 students, more than 15% of whom are international, it is one of Portugal's most cosmopolitan universities.\nCoimbra's alumni over the centuries include Portugal's national poet Lu\u00eds de Cam\u00f5es, the mathematician Pedro Nunes, many statesmen, prime ministers and presidents of Portugal, and Nobel Prize laureate Ant\u00f3nio Egaz Moniz.\nHistory.\nThe university was founded, or ratified, in 1290 by King Dinis, having begun its existence in Lisbon with the name Studium Generale (\"Estudo Geral\"). \"Scientiae thesaurus mirabilis\", the royal charter announcing the institution of the university, was dated 1 March of that year, although efforts had been made at least since 1288 to create this first University in Portugal; it is thus the second oldest of such establishments in the Iberian Peninsula. The papal confirmation was also given in 1290 (on 9 August of that year), during the papacy of Nicholas IV. In accordance with the papal bull, all the \"licit\" faculties, with the exception of that of Theology, could be established. Thus the Faculties of Arts, Law, Canon Law and Medicine were the first to be created. It was, however, not to remain in Lisbon for long. In 1308, likely due to problems of emancipation from the Church (relations between the latter and the political power being somewhat strained at the time) and conflicts between the inhabitants of the city and the students, the university moved to Coimbra. This town already had old traditions in education, being home to the highly successful school of the Monastery of Santa Cruz. The university was then established on the site known as \"Estudos Velhos\", which corresponds roughly to the area where the Main Library now stands.\nIn 1338, during the reign of Afonso IV, it was once again transferred to Lisbon, from whence it returned in 1354, this time to the centre of the town which was then in full expansion. In 1377, during the reign of King Fernando, it was transferred yet again to Lisbon, where it would remain for over a century and a half. The authorization for a Faculty of Theology probably dates from this period \u2013 around 1380.\nIn 1537, during the reign of Jo\u00e3o III (1521\u20131557), the university moved definitively to Coimbra, where it was installed in the Alca\u00e7ova Palace which was subsequently purchased from the royal family in 1597.\nDuring the same 1521\u20131557 period, significant reforms were carried out. Both the university as an institution, and all of its library's books were moved from Lisbon to Coimbra. Most of the new faculty, previously affiliated to the Spanish University of Salamanca, was initially not tenured at Coimbra and, subsequently, professors did not generally relocate. Faculties, hitherto scattered in different buildings, were brought together in the \"Palacio del Rey\", while other new and prestigious Spanish professors were also invited. At the faculty of Theology taught Alfonso de Prado and Antonio de Fonseca, the latter a doctor of Paris; at the faculty of Law, the famous canonist Martin de Azpilcueta (Doctor Navarrus), Manuel de Costa, and Antonio Francisco Su\u00e1rez, all three from Salamanca. Meanwhile, Francisco Franco (chamber physician to John III) and Rodrigo Reinoso taught at the School of Medicine. Classical languages and literatures were taught by professors such as Cipriano Su\u00e1rez, the author of a famous treatise on rhetoric (\"De arte rhetorica libri tres, ex Aristotele, Cicerone et Quintiliano praecipue deprompti\"), at the Colegio de la Artes, which young students learnt as a preparation for further academic studies; this college, independent at first, was eventually merged with the college of Theology, and entrusted to the Jesuits. One of its first professors was the Scotch Latinist George Buchanan, later a follower of John Knox and a reviler of Mary Stuart. The colleges of Sao Pedro and S\u00e3o Paulo were founded for graduates (doctors) intending to pursue teaching careers; other colleges received students of various religious orders.\nIn 1770 (23 December), King Jos\u00e9 I, following the ambitious Marquis de Pombal's initiative, appointed a commission in charge of reorganizing the university. This commission advised the creation of two new faculties, Mathematics and Natural philosophy, leaving intact the older faculties of Theology, Canon law, Civil law, and Medicine. In the end, however, the former and hitherto successful Jesuit college was turned over to the faculty of Medicine, as it would profit from its clinics and laboratories, before being finally confiscated at the time of the expulsion of the Society from Portugal, in 1759 (Coimbra University colleges ).\nAmong the main readings at the University of Coimbra during the Jesuit period were the books composing the influential \"Cursus conimbricenses,\" a group of 11 volumes on Aristotle produced as part of King John III of Portugal's efforts to rival the University of Paris.[1]\nIn the 18th century, the Marquis of Pombal, Minister of the kingdom, made radical reforms in the university, especially regarding the teaching of sciences, in accordance to his Enlightenment and anticlerical creed.\nDuring many decades it was the only university in Portugal, since its foundation in 1290 until 1559 (a university in \u00c9vora operated between 1559 and 1759), and again between 1759 and 1911 (University of Lisbon and University of Porto were created in 1911). The long history and past predominance of the University of Coimbra made it an important focus of influence in Portugal, not only educational, but also political and social.\nInitial steps towards some convergence of European higher education systems were taken with the signature of the Sorbonne declaration by the ministers in charge of higher education in France, Italy, the United Kingdom and Germany, in 1998, and later, in 1999, with the signature of the Bologna declaration. The Bologna process, aimed at creating a European Higher Education Area by implementing a comparable degree structure, common quality assurance standards and by promoting the mobility of students and faculty members, was a major revolution in Europe's higher education. Globalization, technological change and increased international competition for scarce high-skilled labor highlighted the importance of making European higher education institutions attractive and competitive worldwide. A more integrated European Higher Education Market enhanced competition between European universities\u2014a necessary condition for producing leading-edge innovations and for catching up with the US economy. In Portugal, the University of Coimbra decided to defer the adoption of the new Bologna Process model from 2006 to 2007/2008 (with exceptions authorized for a few programs on which a national consensus for change had been reached among institutions) in order to make the transition maintaining the highest standards of quality and academic integrity. Only in the 2008/2009 school year did the entire university fully adopt the new programs within its 8 faculties.\nOrganisation.\nIts governance is assured by the Rector, the Senate and the University Assembly, the last responsible for the election of the Rector and the Senate. The Rector has the main responsibility for the strategic direction and the overall administration of the university, together with the Senate and assisted by the Administrative Council.\nThe university is divided into eight different faculties (Letters, Law, Medicine, Sciences &amp; Technology, Pharmacy, Economics, Psychology &amp; Education Sciences and Sports Sciences &amp; Physical Education), comprising about 25,000 students. The Faculty of Sciences and Technology (FCTUC) is the largest by number of professors and students, awards the highest number of academic degrees, and manages more classrooms and research units than any other in the UC. Both the National Legal Medicine Institute, an organization under direct supervision of the Portuguese Ministry of the Justice, which provides forensic science services to the police forces and government agencies of Portugal, and the University of Coimbra's teaching hospital, HUC (\"Hospitais da Universidade de Coimbra\"), a university hospital known as a centre of research with a broad range of clinical services and medical specialties, are managed by the Faculty of Medicine (FMUC).\nThe university harbours a huge central library (University of Coimbra General Library), botanical gardens (Botanical Garden of the University of Coimbra), stadiums and other sports facilities (\"Est\u00e1dio Universit\u00e1rio de Coimbra\" sports complex and \"Campo de Santa Cruz\" stadium), an astronomical observatory, a publishing house, a private chapel (S\u00e3o Miguel Chapel), a theatre (Teatro Acad\u00e9mico de Gil Vicente), and many support facilities such as dining halls and studying rooms. In addition, the university manages several museums and other cultural organizations, including a science museum (Science Museum of the University of Coimbra), a museum of sacred art (\"Sacred Art Museum of the University of Coimbra\"), and an academic museum (\"Academic Museum of the University of Coimbra\").\nThe university has five main campuses or other sites:\nFaculties.\nThe university is organized into 8 faculties and each faculty into departments:\nStudents.\nStudents are represented by the students' union Associa\u00e7\u00e3o Acad\u00e9mica de Coimbra (AAC). Formed on 3 November 1887, it is the oldest university students' union in Portugal, with a long history of struggle against unpopular state policies, forming notable politicians and intellectuals along the way. It also harbours a very dynamic associative life, with its numerous sports and cultural sections, as well as a number of other autonomous organizations. It is an important structure of extracurricular formation of the University of Coimbra's students and a major institution of the city itself. The AAC develops activities such as theatre, cinema, radio and television broadcast, music, choral singing, journalism or philately, as well as rowing, athletics and many other sports. Every student, and occasionally some non-students, are entitled to belong to these sections.\nCulture, sports and traditions.\nThe university's academic traditions and institutions color the life of the city. The old \"Republics\" (autonomous students' residences) remain, as well as some traditional festivities, most notably the \"Queima das Fitas\" (a celebration of graduation's end, symbolized by the burning of the ribbons with the colors of each of the eight faculties), the \"Festa das Latas\" (a homecoming), the frequent use of traditional attire, the \"Fado de Coimbra\" (Coimbra's fado, now sung in organized shows rather than the traditional street serenades), and the academic ceremonies (namely the conferring of doctorate degrees).\nThe official colors of the Faculties of the University of Coimbra are:\nThese colors are used in the institutional seal and other symbols of each faculty, in the university ceremonies conferring doctorate degrees, and are also used by the students in their ribbons related with the academic traditions (see Queima das Fitas \"(The Burning of the Ribbons)\"). The color of the university seal and of the Rector's office, representing the entire institution as a whole, is dark green. The flag of the University of Coimbra (white flag with the dark green seal in the middle) is always erected, over the top of the old university tower, on 1 March, which is the day of the university, being an occasion for a week of debates, conferences, workshops, and special events related with multiple aspects of the institution.\nThe Praxe (Praxis) is a body of ritual and custom founded upon ancient traditions and it is a controversial part of Coimbra's academic life to which no university student is indifferent. Part of the attraction of Coimbra's academic life, aside from its recognized excellence is that it is more \"Praxe\", having unique rituals that set it apart from other institutions and give its students a special sense of participation in academic rituals that developed hundreds of years ago. Though these rituals are seen as crude and violent by some, they remain an important reference in the academic experience of the students for others. The rules of the \"Praxe\" are contained in a book (The Code of Academic Praxis, by a committee of older students of the AAC \u2013 Associa\u00e7\u00e3o Acad\u00e9mica de Coimbra), which prescribes appropriate student behavior for activities like drafting, evaluation, groups or bands and the Burning of the Ribbons rituals. Even inside the AAC, Coimbra's student organisation, there are \"anti-Praxe\" groups and people who advocate for more thorough reforms in traditional rituals. The Freshman (1st yr.) period (the lowest category in the \"Praxe\" hierarchy) is, for many students, a time of good and lasting memories of never to be repeated events. One of the most visible and distinctive traditions is the use of the academic costume of the University of Coimbra, a black suit and cape worn on special occasions by the students, which was adopted by other Portuguese universities and is actually used by students of almost all higher education institutions in the city and across the country.\nPraxis almost disappeared in the years after the 25 de Abril revolution of 1974. Timidly it was reinstated in the 1980s. However the significance of the traditional academic attire changed substantially. In earlier centuries it was common practice for a student to wear if for the length of his studies. Students occasionally slept in it when consumption of wine frustrated their efforts to reach home. The academic attire could be completely torn at the end of studies, with the exception of the cape that would not get torn in that ritual (but could have been cut before with a different symbolism), and would be used by former students when attending Queima das Fitas. Today the academic attire is used less frequently, but it is, arguably, still used more often by students in Coimbra, than in other universities.\nA student who had been enrolled more than the years of his course was a \"veteran\". In the past, when University enrollment was a matter of social class, some students would accumulate quite a number of enrollments. The individual who had the most was Dux Veteranorum, a notable figure in the student scene at the university. In the middle 1980s for instance, the Dux Veteranorum had more than 20 enrollments in Law School but had graduated in only 2 or 3 courses. This tradition is disappearing as the university is putting constraints in the number of years a student can enroll. Most student costs are supported with public money and it is no longer found acceptable that some individuals burden finances to extend their stays without graduating. However, with the increasing tuition fees a student has to pay to attend the university and the attraction of new types of mature students (almost always as part-time or evening class students) like employees, businessmen, parents, and pensioners, many departments make a substantial profit from every additional student enrolled in courses, with benefits for the university's gross tuition revenue and without loss of educational quality (teacher per student, computer per student, classroom size per student, etc.).\nThe sports sections of the AAC play a significant role in Coimbra's sport life, often being the city's main representative in that area. They include rugby, handball, basketball, baseball, martial arts, athletics, gymnastic or swimming, among others. Just as with the cultural sections, every student, including professional or semi-professional athletes, may belong to them.\nThe city's main football club, usually known as \"Acad\u00e9mica\" or \"Briosa\", is in formal terms an autonomous organism of the AAC and is called AAC-OAF, but in practical terms it is an independent club, only loosely connected to its mother institution. It is a relatively important team, especially in terms of its huge number of followers nationwide, and plays in the top Portuguese football leagues, having won the first ever Portuguese Football Cup in 1939.\nRecep\u00e7\u00e3o ao Caloiro.\nIn Portugal, the homecoming is known as \"Recep\u00e7\u00e3o ao Caloiro\" (The Freshman's Reception). It includes numerous events and traditions born in the 19th century in the University of Coimbra. It is defined as a welcome to the new students, the freshmen (\"caloiros\"), and takes place at the beginning of the academic year in Portuguese university towns. In every classic public university of Portugal the homecoming is celebrated yearly. The events are followed in varying degrees by other less traditional or smaller institutions. A street parade of students, concerts, and sports events are always organized for the freshmen's reception. The street parade organized in several major Portuguese universities is known as \"Latada\", and its name comes from the tradition of tying tin cans to the freshmen's legs (the word \"lata\" is tin can in Portuguese).\nHistory.\n\"The Freshman's Reception\" (, the Portuguese name for university homecoming) goes back to the 19th century when the law students of the University of Coimbra felt the need to express their joy at finishing the school year in as loud a way as possible, using everything at their disposal that would make noise, namely tin cans, which is the original root of \"The Tin Can Parade\".\nCoimbra.\nIn Coimbra, where the oldest Portuguese university was founded in the Middle Ages, the \"Recep\u00e7\u00e3o ao Caloiro\" (The Freshman's Reception) week, includes the \"Festa das Latas\" (The Tin Can Festival). The Tin Can Festival's name comes from the tradition of tying tin cans to the freshmen's legs for the parade (The Tin Can Parade) which is known as \"Latada\". The events are organized by the students' union of the University of Coimbra, the Associa\u00e7\u00e3o Acad\u00e9mica de Coimbra, and takes place during the fall. It is an important part of the \"praxe acad\u00e9mica\" (student praxis) in Coimbra, followed by the city population as an ancient cultural manifestation and local tradition, and has become a tourist attraction for a number of visitors every year.\nEvents.\nThe highlight of this homecoming, which now takes place at the beginning of the academic year (October/November) is the special parade known as the Latada. After marching through the streets of the city the new students are baptized in the Mondego River thus entering into the Coimbra academic fraternity. The second-year students are awarded their Grelos (a small ribbon). The Grelo is a small, woollen ribbon with the color(s) of the student's faculty, that is attached to a student's briefcase. Before this, the students must have visited the Dom Pedro V market during the morning, where they must get a turnip to sustain the Caloiros during the day's festivities. Besides the tin cans they have tied to their legs, the new students wear all kinds of costumes made up according to the creativity and imagination of their godmothers or godfathers, who are older students. They also carry placards with ironic criticisms alluding to certain teachers, the educational system, national events and leaders. The homecoming includes the \"Tin Can Festival\" week, with concerts and several other cultural events and sports activities beyond the parade, which always happens on a Tuesday. These include the historical night-time student fado serenade which happens in the stairs of the Old Cathedral of Coimbra to a crowd of thousands of students and other spectators, every year during the celebrations.\nQueima das Fitas.\nCoimbra's \"Queima das Fitas\" (Burning of the Ribbons), the oldest and most famous in the country, is organized by a students' commission formed by members of the students' union of the University of Coimbra, the Associa\u00e7\u00e3o Acad\u00e9mica de Coimbra. Celebrating the end of graduation courses, symbolized by the ritual burning of the ribbons representing each faculty, it takes place at the second semester (first weekend of May), being among the biggest student festivities in Europe. It lasts for 8 days, one for each Faculty: Letters, Law, Medicine, Sciences &amp; Technology, Pharmacy, Economics, Psychology &amp; Education Sciences and Sports Sciences &amp; Physical Education. During this period, a series of concerts and performances are held, turning Coimbra in a lively and vibrant city.\nStudents Lore.\nStories passed along over generations of students, the university folklore is plentiful. One student usually asked his father for money, stating \"Rent 20, Food 30\". One day he asked \"Rent 20, Food 30, Hammering 20, Fixing of the hammer and medication 40.\" Another student had oral examinations at Law School. Unresponsive to the simplest of questions, the professor already impatient, turned to the bailiff and asked \"Bring in a stack of hay\" to which the student very quickly added \"And I'll have a glass of water please.\"\nThe years of dictatorship were gruesome. Apart from the students that got 7 years in prison for toasting to freedom which led directly to the foundation of Amnesty International in 1961, in 1968 students would spend the whole night greasing streets and sidewalks with soap so the mounted police would have a hard time chasing them down to break a demonstration. It is said that a student dared a policeman to get his shoes and feet wet chasing after a cigarette lighter, thrown in the duck pond, while he had the license for it in his pocket. In those days one needed a permit to own a cigarette lighter, as imposed by Salazar to protect the matches industry.\nOther items are plain local knowledge:\nFreshmen on first day of classes may have rough stuff to go through. In the escalator of the Mathematics Department it is common to see them buying season tickets to take the ride all year round, and at least once, as urban myth has it, a poster announcing \"Flight Insurance For This Elevator, At Sale in The Lobby\", was inquired about by the newcomers.\nBusiness incubator and science park.\nThe \"Instituto Pedro Nunes\" (IPN), founded by the University of Coimbra, is a business incubator and an innovation and technology transfer center of the university, working for the business and applied research communities. The Coimbra iParque is a science park which has among its several founders and associates the University of Coimbra. Notable startup companies born from the University of Coimbra include ISA, Critical Software, Crioestaminal, Ciberbit and Feedzai.\nAcademics.\nReputation.\nUniversity of Coimbra's reputation in teaching and research is testified by independent external rankings and reports. According to The Times Higher Education Supplement (2007 QS World University Rankings, by QS \u2013 Quacquarelli Symonds), the University of Coimbra was ranked number 3 among the universities in the Portuguese-speaking countries (behind the University of S\u00e3o Paulo and\nthe University of Campinas), and ranked 318 in the overall world rank. It was ranked number one among the universities of the Portuguese-speaking countries in 2006. It tends to be ranked number one (consistently one of the top) in Portugal, number 3 among the universities in the Portuguese-speaking countries, and number 394 in the world (234 in Natural Sciences, 260 in Engineering &amp; IT, 282 in Social Sciences, 290 in Arts &amp; Humanities, 325 in Life Sciences). In addition, it has students from 70 different nationalities; almost 20% of its students are foreigners, being among Portugal's most international universities.\nThe University of Coimbra is among the major science and technology hubs for applied and fundamental research in Portugal. One of the most powerful supercomputers in Portugal belongs to the University of Coimbra and is managed by the Laboratory for Advanced Computing of the Department of Physics at the University of Coimbra. Built in the mid-2000s, the supercomputer was called \"Milipeia\", using 528 processors and 1000 GB of memory. Its capacity has been expanded since then. The main tasks of the university's supercomputer include modeling and calculus in molecular biology, genetics, particle physics, astrophysics, mathematics, engineering, geophysics, condensed matter physics, etc. Besides University of Coimbra's researchers, other Portuguese scientific community members are allowed to work with \"Milipeia\".\nThe university is also notorious in Portugal for being the national university with the highest rate of academic inbreeding, with 80% of its hired faculty having obtained their doctoral degrees at the University of Coimbra, this factor is most pronounced at the Faculty of Law (100%) and the Faculty of Medicine (97%).\nIn 2023-2025, in the wake of the Gaza war, the university was criticized for discrimination, antisemitism and hosting pro-Hamas propaganda. Pro-Israeli NGO Combat Antisemitism Movement accused university faculty members of hanging signs praising Yahya Sinwar and others calling to kick out all Israelis. On 11 November 2025, testimonies of hatred and discrimination together with leaked documents were given at the European Parliament under the European Whistleblower Protection Directive.\nOrganisation and length of courses.\nSchool year calendar starts in October and finishes in July. In 2004, it was among the first universities in Portugal limiting the time for degree completion. The degree programmes have a specified minimum and maximum time for completion. The time limit is 6 years from the date of first enrolment for the 4 years degrees, and 8 years from the date of first enrolment for 6 years degrees (i.e. Medicine). After that, students have to pay the entire costs of their courses. The tuition fee for undergraduate degrees was \u20ac356/year in 2002/2003. It was increased to \u20ac880/year in 2004/2005 and to \u20ac901,23/year in 2005/2006, the maximum fee allowed to state universities by law. Even with the time limit and the increased tuition fees, the university has had a high number of applicants every year. Like other universities in Portugal, and unlike the polytechnical institutes and many private universities, the university does not have special classes for workers or night classes. Overcrowded classrooms have been frequent in some disciplines at the Faculties of Science and Technology, Law, and Economics. In those occasions, students may stand during the classes or even stay outside the classroom. These faculties have the highest abandon rate and the biggest average time for degree completion. New buildings, campus expansion and modernized infrastructures since the late 1990s and the 2000s, have solved almost all these problems.\nAdmission.\nAdmission is strictly merit-based, and the university has several departments which are known for higher-than-average selectiveness. Numerus clausus is applied to select among competing applicants. To programmes such as medicine, pharmacy, biomedical engineering, and architecture, admission is an extraordinarily difficult process, and demand a minimum grade point average from high school plus the entrance exams, that usually ranges from 170 to 200 (out of 200). Acceptance rates may vary significantly from faculty to faculty or from department to department. Foreign applicants usually make up more than 10 percent of the applicant pool, and are considered individually by the merits achieved in their respective state of origin or through bilateral protocols between the governments of Portugal and foreign governments. There are also a number of other extraordinary admission processes for older people (admission for candidates older than 23 years old), sportsmen, degree owners from other institutions, students from other institutions (academic transfer), former students (readmission), etc., which are subject to specific standards and regulations set by each department or faculty.\nNotable alumni and students.\nMany Portuguese historical figures and renowned personalities noted for their activity in fields ranging from politics to culture to the sciences, attended the University of Coimbra as students or lecturers. The long list of personalities includes:\nIn popular culture.\nIn chapter 6 of Voltaire's novella \"Candide\", first published in 1759, the narrator remarks that the University of Coimbra had decided that \"the burning of a few people alive by a slow fire, and with great ceremony, is an infallible secret to hinder the earth from quaking.\"\nIn the comics series \"Tintin,\" Senhor Pedro Jo\u00e3o Dos Santos is a Portuguese physicist of the University of Coimbra. He was a member of Decimus Phostle's expedition team to recover samples from a fallen meteorite in the Arctic Ocean, the Aurora Expedition. He is seen only in \"The Shooting Star\", the tenth volume of \"The Adventures of Tintin\". The story was serialised daily in \"Le Soir\", Belgium's leading francophone newspaper, from October 1941 to May 1942."}
{"id": "715165", "revid": "18509132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715165", "title": "University of Lyon", "text": "The University of Lyon ( , or UdL) is a university system (\"ComUE\") based in Lyon, France. It comprises 12 members and 9 associated institutions. The three main constituent universities in this center are: Claude Bernard University Lyon 1, which focuses upon health and science studies and has approximately 47,000 students; Lumi\u00e8re University Lyon 2, which focuses upon the social sciences and arts, and has about 30,000 students; Jean Moulin University Lyon 3, which focuses upon the law and humanities with about 20,000 students.\nFollowing Paris and Toulouse, Lyon stands as France's third-largest university hub. Hosting 129,000 students, 11,500 educators and researchers, along with 510 private and public laboratories, it encompasses the city's three faculties (Lyon-1, Lyon-2, and Lyon-3), alongside the Jean Monnet University of Saint-\u00c9tienne, \u00c9cole Centrale de Lyon, \u00c9cole Normale Sup\u00e9rieure de Lyon, and the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Lyon. The Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, France's public institution for scientific research, is a vital member of this university network. Collaboratively, private and public higher education institutions in the Lyon region pool resources to advance and promote scientific research. Originally established between 1896 and 1968 as a centralized university amalgamating three historical faculties (sciences, arts, medicine, and law), the University of Lyon transitioned into a decentralized model under the Edgar Faure law, advocating for university autonomy. Flourishing as a prominent research hub for Egyptological studies since the late 19th century, Lyon witnessed the birth of the Institute of Egyptology in 1879. In 1975, Egyptological studies found a home in the Victor Loret Institute of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), alongside the creation of the Maison de l'Orient et de la M\u00e9diterran\u00e9e.\nDistinguished alumni and faculty of the University of Lyon include Nobel laureates such as Victor Grignard (Chemistry, 1912), Alexis Carrel (Medicine), Roger Guillemin (Medicine 1977), Yves Chauvin (Chemistry, 2005), and Jean Jouzel (co-laureate of the Nobel Peace Prize, 2007). Notable figures also include Ume Kenjir\u014d, architect of the Japanese civil code and former law faculty student, C\u00e9dric Villani, Fields Medal recipient and alumnus of Lyon-III, astrophysicist H\u00e9l\u00e8ne Courtois, pioneer of criminal anthropology Alexandre Lacassagne, and Louis L\u00e9opold Ollier, founding figure in modern orthopedic surgery.\nHistory.\nLyon has historically been an industrious and mercantile city, oriented towards free trade and commerce due to its geographical location: at the confluence of the Sa\u00f4ne and Rh\u00f4ne rivers, near Switzerland and Italy, on the route between northern and southern Europe. Primarily a merchant city under the Ancien R\u00e9gime, Lyon does not have a long university history: this delay is partly due to the fear that education would divert young people from commerce and industry. The first modern higher education institution in Lyon was established in 1519 under the initiative of the Brotherhood of the Trinity (\"Confr\u00e9rie de la Trinit\u00e9\"). On 21 July 1527, following its success, the institution came under the control of the Lyon municipality, which then assumed financial responsibility for it. The institution became the \"Coll\u00e8ge Confr\u00e9rie de la Trinit\u00e9\". It was the first coeducational institution, notably welcoming poets Louise Lab\u00e9 and Pernette du Guillet during the Renaissance. In the 16th century, this university college was an influential humanist centre. Amidst the religious wars between Catholic and Huguenots, the director of the institution, the poet Barth\u00e9lemy Aneau, was massacred in 1561, accused of sympathising with the Reformation. In 1565, Pope Pius IV confirmed the transfer of the college\u2019s administration to the Jesuits, a transfer later validated in 1568 by King Charles IX of France. The college expanded in the 17th century, with the works financed by Queen Anne of Austria. Besides a theatre, a library, and an observatory, the Coll\u00e8ge de la Trinit\u00e9 incorporated numerous buildings not primarily intended for education, including eight congregation chapels. To construct buildings specifically for boarders, the Jesuits began acquiring properties from the 1680s onwards, with acquisitions peaking between 1712 and 1713. In 1702, an astronomical observatory was built atop the Trinity Chapel, driven by astronomer Jean de Saint-Bonnet. In 1763, following the suppression of the Jesuit order in France, the Lyon municipality ordered the institution\u2019s takeover by the Oratorian order. Like all universities and higher education institutions of the Ancien R\u00e9gime, the Coll\u00e8ge de la Trinit\u00e9 was abolished by the National Convention on 15 September 1793 during the Revolution, on the grounds that they were too aristocratic and did not align with the revolutionaries' vision of public education accessible to all.\nIn 1806, Napoleon I established the University of France, an institution that centralised all faculties in France. Ephemeral faculties of arts and sciences were created in Lyon during this period but were abolished during the Bourbon Restoration in 1815. At the beginning of the 19th century, it had a total of 2,551 students, making it the largest university in the country after Paris. The modern faculties, ancestors of the University of Lyon, were established under the July Monarchy: the Faculty of Sciences of Lyon opened its doors in 1833, the Faculty of Letters in 1838, the Faculty of Theology in 1839 (transformed into the Catholic Faculty in 1885), the Faculty of Law in 1875 by decree of President Mac Mahon, and the Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy in 1877. The law of 10 July 1896 formally created the University of Lyon, composed of these faculties. Each faculty maintained a high degree of autonomy despite sharing what was then known as the \"Palais des Facult\u00e9s\", now the Palais Hirsch, located on the left bank of the Rh\u00f4ne at Quai Claude-Bernard. By 1920, Lyon had over 3,500 university students, making it the second largest university in the country after Paris, which had 17,000 students. The University of Lyon in this centralised form existed until 1968.\nAs with all universities in France, following the events of May 1968, the University of Lyon was replaced by autonomous faculties. The Edgar Faure law aimed to grant greater autonomy to faculties and break with the highly centralised vision that had governed higher education in France since 1896. The law provided a legal status of autonomy to the faculties, that of \"public establishments of a scientific and cultural nature.\" The University of Lyon was then divided into three autonomous entities: University Lyon-I - \"Claude Bernard\" (former faculty of medicine and pharmacy, now a university of sciences), University Lyon-II - \"Lumi\u00e8re\" (former faculty of letters, now a university dedicated to the humanities, social sciences, and arts), and University Lyon-III - \"Jean Moulin\" (former faculty of law, now a university dedicated to law and political science). The University of Sciences Lyon-I is named Claude Bernard in honour of this eminent physiologist and scientist; the University of Lyon-II is named Lumi\u00e8re in reference to the brothers Louis and Auguste Lumi\u00e8re, the inventors of cinema; the University Lyon-III is named Jean Moulin in honour of the prefect and resistance leader during World War II, who unified the French Resistance and died under torture by the Gestapo in Lyon in 1943.\nStructure.\nAfter Paris and Toulouse, Lyon is the third largest university city in France with 2,335 students in 1898, 36,500 students in 1973, 42,600 students in 1978, 50,000 students in 1982, and 52,000 students in 1985; in 2024, Lyon has 175,000 students, including 23,000 international students, and 11,500 researchers and faculty members. The university has a total of 510 private and public laboratories, and an average of 800 doctoral theses are defended there each year. The university comprises a total of 510 private and public laboratories, 18 doctoral schools, and an average of 800 doctoral theses are defended there each year. The doctoral schools are divided into five categories: life sciences (biological sciences, health, neurobiology, sciences and cognition, cancerology and biology), exact sciences (electronics and electrotechnics, mechanics and civil engineering, chemistry, materials, engineering, computer science and mathematics, physics and astrophysics), and humanities and social sciences (social sciences, literature, languages and linguistics, education and psychology, economics and management, philosophy and history, law).\nUdL, on behalf of its member institutions, oversees several major projects related to the \"Investments for the Future\" programme, for which it has secured nearly one billion euros in funding. As part of these major projects, 12 laboratories have been awarded the \"\"Laboratoire d'Excellence\" (LabEx) label, and 8 projects have received the \"Equipement d'Excellence\"\" (EquipEx) label from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation. Additionally, 3 of its research institutes have been awarded the Carnot label, which is given to public research laboratories conducting scientific research in public-private partnerships.\nAs part of the France 2030 programme, launched in 2021 by the French government with a total budget of \u20ac54 billion, the UdL has established a technology transfer acceleration company (\"soci\u00e9t\u00e9 d'Acc\u00e9l\u00e9ration du Transfert de Technologies\", SATT). This subsidiary, created by one or more institutions (universities and research organisations), aims to professionalise the valorisation of public research. The company is responsible for managing patent applications, proof-of-concept operations, startup creation, and licensing. The University of Lyon's SATT, called PULSALYS, has a budget of \u20ac57 million over 10 years to strengthen the collaboration between fundamental research and entrepreneurship.\nMembers.\nConstituent universities\nGrandes \u00c9coles"}
{"id": "715167", "revid": "51769868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715167", "title": "Francisco Canaro", "text": "Francisco Canaro, also known by the nickname Pirincho, (November 26, 1888 \u2013 December 14, 1964) was a Uruguayan violinist and tango orchestra leader.\nCanaro was born in San Jos\u00e9 de Mayo, Uruguay, in 1888. His parents were Italian immigrants, and later, when he was less than 10 years old, they emigrated to Buenos Aires, Argentina in the late nineteenth century. As a young man he found work in a factory, where an empty oil can, in his skilled hands, became his first violin. Performing in seedy bars initially, he ultimately forged a career that spanned many decades, and his orchestra was one of the most recorded. His introduction to the tango came by orquesta t\u00edpica leader Vicente Greco in 1908, and in 1912 he composed \"Pinta brava\" (\"Fierce Look\"). Canaro composed the music for the 1915 Argentine classic film \"Nobleza gaucha\". He later was romantically attached to Argentine actress and tango vocalist Ada Falc\u00f3n, but the relationship, which began in the early 1920s, grew apart a decade later. \nIn 1920 Canaro discovered Azucena Maizani, who rapidly developed into a major tango star.\nCanaro was active in the cause of intellectual property rights from 1918 onwards, and was instrumental in the establishment of the Argentine Society of Composers and Songwriters (SADAIC), in 1935, purchasing the downtown Buenos Aires lot where its headquarters were built. He performed in Paris with his orchestra in 1925, and a success among local audiences, he remained in Europe for a decade. Becoming a naturalized Argentine citizen in 1940, much of his recorded music is in the classic salon style of that decade, but he is also considered a member of the old guard, and some of his later recordings contributed to the transition to concert tango.\nCanaro's orchestra became a fixture on Argentine radio during the 1940s and early 1950s, though for many contemporary dancers and listeners, his early golden age recordings remained the best in their genre. Canaro authored his memoirs, \"Mis 50 a\u00f1os con el tango\" (\"My Fifty Years with the Tango\") in 1956, but later developed Paget's disease, and was forced to retire. He died in Buenos Aires in 1964.\nThere are more than 12.400 different transfers of recordings by Francisco Canaro taken from 78-RPM, LP, CD and digital transfers listed in the TANGO-DJ.AT Database, featuring extensive meta data and soundsamples for supporting members. "}
{"id": "715169", "revid": "1294246568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715169", "title": "Prigorodny District", "text": "Prigorodny District (Russian: \u041f\u0440\u0438\u0433\u043e\u0440\u043e\u0434\u043d\u044b\u0439 \u0440\u0430\u0439\u043e\u043d) is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715171", "revid": "44266077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715171", "title": "Wo\u0142\u00f3w", "text": "Wo\u0142\u00f3w (, ) is a town in Lower Silesian Voivodeship in south-western Poland. It is the seat of Wo\u0142\u00f3w County and Gmina Wo\u0142\u00f3w. , the town has a population of 12,373. It is part of the larger Wroc\u0142aw metropolitan area.\nEtymology.\nThe town's name is derived from the Polish word \"w\u00f3\u0142\" (\"ox\").\nHistory.\nThe area around Wo\u0142\u00f3w has been settled since prehistoric times. It became part of the emerging Polish state in the late 10th century under Mieszko I of Poland. The town was first mentioned in 1157 when a wooden castle founded by Senior Duke of Poland W\u0142adys\u0142aw II the Exile is documented, which developed into a castle complex, which was again mentioned in 1202. Two villages developed near the castle, one of them called Wo\u0142owo. Probably in the second half of the 13th century the town was founded near Wo\u0142owo and partially on the soil of the second village. Wo\u0142\u00f3w received Magdeburg town rights about 1285 at the time of German Ostsiedlung in the region; a Vogt is mentioned in 1288.\nAt that time Wo\u0142\u00f3w belonged to the Duchy of G\u0142og\u00f3w, after 1312 to the Duchy of Ole\u015bnica. With the duchy it came under the suzerainty of Bohemia in 1328. Since the 15th century, the town was a center of clothmaking. From 1473 dates the oldest known seal of the town, which already shows an ox, as do all later seals. Wo\u0142\u00f3w was ruled by local Polish dukes until 1492, and soon after, in 1495, it came into the possession of the Czech Podiebrad family, then in 1517 it came into the hands the Hungarian magnate Johann Thurz\u00f3, before returning to Piast rule in 1523, by passing to the Duchy of Legnica. It remained there until the Piast dukes of Legnica-Brzeg-Wo\u0142\u00f3w died out in 1675. As a result of the Thirty Years' War, the town's population fell by half.\nThe Protestant Reformation was introduced to the town in 1522 by duke Frederick II. After the extinction of the local Piasts the duchy passed to the House of Habsburg, which opposed the Protestant denomination in the town, as part of the Counter-Reformation. In 1682 the town's parish church was closed and given to the Catholics. According to the Treaty of Altranst\u00e4dt the church however was already returned to the Protestants in 1707 and stayed Protestant until 1945. The small Catholic minority in return received a Josephinian curacy.\nIn 1742 Wo\u0142\u00f3w was annexed by Prussia. The duchy was divided into two districts and the town became county seat of one of the districts. The structure of the town was, until 1700, defined by craft, especially clothiers. As the seat of a duchy and a district administrative function however became more and more important. The industrialization played only a minor role and mostly affected smaller companies of the timber industry. In 1781 the city suffered a fire.\nDuring World War I, the German administration operated a forced labour camp for Allied prisoners of war in the town. During World War II, the Germans operated a youth prison in the town, with multiple forced labour subcamps in the region, including one in the town itself. In 1943\u20131945, the Germans carried out mass executions of Allied prisoners of war in the forest in the present-day district of Gancarz. In January 1945 \u2013 just before town was taken by the Red Army \u2013 the Wehrmacht evacuated the German population westwards. After Nazi Germany's defeat in World War II, the town became again part of Poland. The totality of the town's previous population was expelled in accordance with the Potsdam Agreement.\nDeportation of Germans from the surrounding villages proceeded in 1945-46. Often, the local mayor announced at eve that families were to show up for deportation the next morning. Very often, the victims' luggage was plundered.\nIn 1962, the town was the site of the Wo\u0142\u00f3w bank robbery, one of the largest bank robberies in Poland.\nSports.\nThe local football team is MKP Wo\u0142\u00f3w. It competes in the lower leagues.\nTwin towns \u2013 sister cities.\nSee twin towns of Gmina Wo\u0142\u00f3w."}
{"id": "715172", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715172", "title": "Star Trek 9", "text": ""}
{"id": "715173", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715173", "title": "Mausoleum of Muhammad Iqbal", "text": ""}
{"id": "715174", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715174", "title": "An\u00edbal Troilo", "text": "An\u00edbal Carmelo Troilo (11 July 1914 \u2013 18 May 1975), also known as Pichuco, was an Argentine tango musician.\nTroilo was a bandoneon player, composer, arranger, and bandleader in Argentina. His orquesta t\u00edpica was among the most popular with social dancers during the golden age of tango (1940\u20131955), but he changed to a concert sound by the late 1950s.\nTroilo's orchestra is best known for its instrumentals, though he also recorded with many well-known vocalists such as Roberto Goyeneche, Edmundo Rivero and Francisco Fiorentino. His rhythmic instrumentals and the recordings he made with vocalist Francisco Fiorentino from 1941 to 1943, known as milongas, were some of the favourites in tango salons. The renowned bandoneonist Astor Piazzolla played in and arranged for Troilo's orquesta t\u00edpica during the period of 1939\u20131944.\nBiography.\nAn\u00edbal Troilo was born on 11 July 1914, to Felisa Bagnoli and An\u00edbal Troilo, in the well-known barrio of Abasto.\nHis father nicknamed him \"Pichuco\", an alteration of the Neapolitan \"picciuso\", meaning \"weepy\", or \"crybaby\". He had one brother and one sister.\nDuring his childhood, Troilo listened to the bandoneon in the bars of his neighbourhood. At the age of 10, he convinced his mother to buy him his first bandoneon. Troilo kept the instrument and played it for the rest of his life.\nWhen he was 11, in 1925, Pichuco played his first performance in a bar. At the age of 14, he formed his first quintet.\nHe studied until his third year of high school at Escuela Superior de Comercio Carlos Pellegrini, one of the most prestigious high schools in Argentina and the whole of Latin America.\nIn December 1930, Troilo was hired to be part of the famous Vardaro-Pugliese sextet of violinist Elvino Vardaro, pianist Osvaldo Pugliese, violinist Alfredo Gobbi, bandoneon player Miguel Jurado (later replaced by Ciriaco Ortiz), and double bass player Luis Addesso.\nFollowing this, Troilo played in numerous orchestras, including those of Juan \"Pacho\" Maglio, Julio de Caro, Juan d'Arienzo, Angel D'Agostino, and Juan Carlos Cobi\u00e1n.\nWith his own orchestra, (whose members varied greatly), he played almost continuously, both live and in the studio, until 1975, the year of his death. From 1953 until the mid-60s, Troilo also played with guitarist Roberto Grela as a duo, which later became the Troilo-Grela Quartet. In 1968, having distanced himself from Grela, he formed his own ensemble, the An\u00edbal Troilo Quartet, which additionally consisted of Ubaldo de L\u00edo on electric guitar, Osvaldo Berlingieri on piano, and Rafael del Bagno on double bass. Berlingieri was later replaced by Jos\u00e9 Col\u00e1ngelo, who also played in the An\u00edbal Troilo Orchestra during its final years. In addition to this, Troilo recorded two songs (\"El motivo\" and \"Volver\") as a bandoneon duo with Astor Piazzolla.\nThe death of Troilo's best friend, the poet Homero Manzi (1907\u20131951), caused him to go into a deep depression that lasted for more than a year. In the poet's memory, he composed the tango \"Responso\".\nThe \"Supreme Bandone\u00f3n of Buenos Aires\" died on 18 May 1975, at the Italian Hospital of Buenos Aires, from a stroke and subsequent cardiac arrest; he is buried in the \"Rinc\u00f3n de los Notables\" (Famous corner) of the La Chacarita cemetery, next to Agust\u00edn Magaldi and Roberto Goyeneche.\nBandone\u00f3n Day.\nIn 2005, the National Congress of Argentina declared 11 July (Troilo's birthday) National Bandone\u00f3n Day, to commemorate one of the nation's most celebrated musicians.\nCompositions.\nPartial list of original tangos composed by An\u00edbal Troilo:"}
{"id": "715175", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715175", "title": "Star Trek Insurrection", "text": ""}
{"id": "715176", "revid": "22804074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715176", "title": "New Flyer bus", "text": ""}
{"id": "715178", "revid": "51975221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715178", "title": "Perpetual virginity of Mary", "text": "The perpetual virginity of Mary is a Christian doctrine that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was a virgin \"before, during and after\" the birth of Christ. In Western Christianity, the Catholic Church adheres to the doctrine, as do many Lutherans, some Anglicans, Reformed, and other Protestants. In Eastern Christianity, the Oriental Orthodox Churches and the Church of the East both adhere to this doctrine as part of their ongoing tradition, and Eastern Orthodox churches recognize Mary as Aeiparthenos, meaning \"ever-virgin\". It is one of the four Marian dogmas of the Catholic Church. Most modern nonconformist Protestants, such as the Plymouth Brethren, reject the doctrine.\nThe extant written tradition of the perpetual virginity of Mary first appears in a late 2nd-century text called the Protoevangelium of James. The Second Council of Constantinople in 553 gave her the title \"Aeiparthenos\", meaning Perpetual Virgin, and at the Lateran Synod of 649 Pope Martin I emphasized the threefold character of the perpetual virginity, before, during, and after the birth of Christ. The Lutheran Smalcald Articles (1537) and the Reformed Second Helvetic Confession (1562) codified the doctrine of perpetual virginity of Mary as well.\nThe doctrine of Mary's perpetual virginity has been challenged on the basis that the New Testament explicitly affirms her virginity only until the birth of Jesus and mentions the brothers (\"adelphoi\") of Jesus, who may have been: (1) sons of Mary, the mother of Jesus, and Joseph; (2) sons of Joseph by a former marriage; or (3) sons of the Mary named in Mark 15:40 as \"mother of James and Joses\", who has been identified as either the wife of Clopas and sister of Mary, the mother of Jesus, or a sister-in-law to Joseph.\nOrigin and history.\n1st century.\nEarly Christian writings from the late first and early second centuries offer only sparse and sometimes unclear hints about virginity and celibacy, and in the Gospels Mary\u2019s virginity is mentioned only briefly, in a way that keeps the focus on the virginal conception rather than on any later state of her life.\nThe infancy narratives in Matthew and Luke present Mary as a virgin at the time she conceives Jesus, a conception that does not involve sexual relations with a man, but this fact by itself does not require the further claim that she remained a virgin in childbirth or afterward.\nOnly in later doctrinal reflection do Christians explicitly describe Mary as virgin before, during, and after the birth of Christ, with the second-century \"Protevangelium of James\" providing the earliest surviving text that clearly supports this view. The increasing acceptance of Mary\u2019s perpetual virginity, together with theological formulations shaped by the text, came to serve as a marker of emerging ascetic tendencies in later centuries.\nThe Odes of Solomon have been interpreted as implying that Mary was a virgin even during childbirth as well as stating that Mary did not have pain during childbirth. Similar statements exist in the Ascension of Isaiah; for example, the passage \"And after her astonishment had worn off her womb was found as (it was) at first, before she had conceived\" is described by scholars as an \"extraordinary process\".\n2nd century.\nThe virgin birth of Jesus is found in the Gospel of Matthew and possibly in Luke, but it seems to have little theological importance before the middle of the 2nd century.\nChurch fathers Irenaeus and Justin Martyr, though mentioning the virgin birth, nowhere affirmed explicitly the view that Mary was a perpetual virgin. This idea, however, appears in at least three works: the Gospel of James, the Gospel of Peter and the Infancy Gospel of Thomas. All of these early sources independently assert that the so-called \"brothers of the Lord\" were children of Joseph's first marriage.\nAccording to Anglican scholar Richard Bauckham, these works \"show no signs of literary relationship\" and probably \"evidence of a well-established tradition in (probably early) second-century Syrian Christianity that Jesus' brothers and sisters were children of Joseph by a previous marriage\". According to Bauckham, Ignatius of Antioch also believed in the doctrine of Mary's virginity during birth.\nThe Gospel of James states that Mary remained a life-long virgin, because Joseph was an old man who married her without physical desire, and the brothers of Jesus mentioned in the canonical gospels are explained as Joseph's sons by an earlier marriage.\nThe Gospel of James seems to have been used to create the stories of Mary which are found in the Quran, but while Muslims agree with Christians that Mary was a virgin at the moment of the conception of Jesus, the idea of her perpetual virginity thereafter is contrary to the Islamic ideal of women as wives and mothers.\nThe Second Apocalypse of James portrays James, not as a child of Joseph but of a certain \"Theudas\", a relative of Jesus.\nThe 8th book of the Christian Sibylline Oracles, which may have been composed in the late 2nd or early 3rd century, describe Mary as \"always virgin\" (\u03b1\u1f30\u03b5\u1f76 \u03ba\u03bf\u03cd\u03c1\u1fc3) and that she received God in her \"intact bosom\" (\u1f00\u03c7\u03c1\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf\u03b9\u03c3\u03b9 ... \u03ba\u03cc\u03bb\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03c2).\nHegesippus's writings are not clear on this subject, with some authors arguing that he defended the doctrine, while others arguing that he disputed the perpetual virginity of Mary.\nThe Ebionites denied the virgin birth and Mary's perpetual virginity.\n3rd century.\nClement of Alexandria is counted among the early Greek Fathers who held that Jesus' brothers were the children of Joseph by a previous marriage, a view Schaff describes as \"the general opinion of the early Greek Fathers\" and \"best attested by ecclesiastical tradition\". Luigi Gambero presents Clement as explicitly witnessing to the Church\u2019s faith in Mary\u2019s perpetual virginity, including the report that Mary was examined by a midwife after the birth and found to be a virgin, and he cites Clement\u2019s claim that \"These things are attested to by the Scriptures of the Lord.\" Hunter adds that, although the Protevangelium of James is first mentioned by Clement of Alexandria, Clement \"does not pursue any of its themes\".\nOrigen used the Protoevangelium's explanation of the brothers to uphold the perpetual virginity of Mary (\"There is no child of Mary except Jesus, according to those who think correctly about her\"). Origen also mentioned that the Gospel of Peter affirmed the perpetual virginity of Mary, saying that the \"brothers\" of Jesus were from a previous marriage of Joseph.\nTertullian, who came between Clement and Origen, denied Mary's virginity during birth to refute the docetist idea that the Son of God could not have assumed a human body, stating: \"although she was a virgin when she conceived, she was a wife when she brought forth her son\". However, is not entirely clear on the issue of Mary's virginity after childbirth, with some scholars denying his traditional association with Helvidius's position.\nHelvidius argued that Victorinus believed that Mary had other children. According to Jerome Helvidius was misinterpreting Victorinus. Epiphanius invented a name \"Antidicomarians\" for a group of people who denied the perpetual virginity of Mary, which Epiphanius attacked. Their same views were also mentioned earlier by Origen, although he too rejected them as heretical. They were active from the 3rd to the 5th century.\nAccording to Epiphanius the Antidicomarians claimed that Apollinaris of Laodicea or his disciples denied the perpetual virginity of Mary, though Epiphanius doubted the claim.\nEusebius (260/265\u2013339/340) and Epiphanius (c. 310/320\u2013403) defended the perpetual virginity of Mary.\nHippolytus of Rome (170\u2013235) held that Mary was \"ever-virgin\"\n4th century.\nBy the early 4th century the spread of monasticism had promoted celibacy as the ideal state, and a moral hierarchy was established with marriage occupying the third rank below life-long virginity and widowhood. Eastern theologians generally accepted Mary as Ever-virgin (\"Aeiparthenos\"), but many in the Western church were less convinced.\nHelvidius objected to the devaluation of marriage inherent in this view and argued that the two states, of virginity and marriage, were equal. His contemporary Jerome, realising that this would lead to the Mother of God occupying a lower place in heaven than virgins and widows, defended her perpetual virginity in his immensely influential \"Against Helvidius\", issued c.383.\nIn the 380s and 390s the monk Jovinian denied Mary's virginity during childbirth, writing that if Jesus did not undergo a normal human birth, then his body was something other than a truly human one. As reported by Augustine, Jovinian \"denied that the virginity of Mary, which existed when she conceived, remained while she gave birth.\" Augustine goes on to say that the reason for Jovinian's denial of Mary's virginity was that the doctrine was too close to the Manichean view that Christ was simply a phantom. According to Ambrose, Jovinian maintained that Mary had conceived as a virgin, but she had not given birth as a virgin. Jerome wrote against Jovinian but failed to mention this aspect of his teaching, and most commentators believe that he did not find it offensive. Jovinian also found two monks in Milan, Sarmatio and Barbatian, who held similar views as Jovinian.\nAmbrose, Archbishop of Milan, was a prominent defender of Mary's virginity \"in partu\" and became a principal target of contemporary accusations of Manicheism. In 391, in his treatise \"Concerning Virginity\", he argued that both the physical birth of Jesus from Mary and the baptismal rebirth of Christians from the Church had to be wholly virginal, including during birth, in order to remove the stain of original sin, of which the pains of childbirth were, in his view, the bodily sign. It was due to Ambrose that \"virginitas in partu\" came to be included consistently in the thinking of subsequent theologians.\nBonosus of Sardica also denied the perpetual virginity of Mary, for which he was declared a heretic. His followers would survive for many centuries, especially among the Goths. Additionally, the perpetual virginity of Mary was denied by some Arians.\nJovinian was condemned as a heretic at a Synod of Milan under Ambrose's presidency in 390 and Mary's perpetual virginity was established as the only orthodox view. Further developments were to follow when the Second Council of Constantinople in 553 formally gave her the title \"Aeiparthenos\", and at the Lateran Synod of 649 Pope Martin I emphasised the threefold character of the perpetual virginity, before, during, and after the birth of Christ.\nAthanasius of Alexandria (d. 393) declared Mary \"Aeiparthenos\", and the liturgy of James the brother of Jesus likewise required a declaration of Mary as ever-virgin. This view was defended by Augustine, Hilary of Poitiers, Didymus the Blind, among others.\nThe Apostles' Creed taught the doctrine of \"virginitas in partu\".\nMiddle Ages.\nIn the Middle Ages the perpetual virginity of Mary was commonly accepted, however the Paulicians denied her perpetual virginity, even saying that Christ denied her to be blessed.\nProtestant Reformation.\nThe Protestant Reformation saw a rejection of the special moral status of lifelong celibacy. As a result, marriage and parenthood were extolled, and Mary and Joseph were seen as a normal married couple. It also affirmed the Bible alone as the fundamental source of authority regarding God's word (\"sola scriptura\").\nMary's perpetual virginity was upheld by Martin Luther (who names her ever-virgin in the Smalcald Articles, a Lutheran confession of faith written in 1537), Huldrych Zwingli, Thomas Cranmer, Wollebius, Bullinger, John Wycliffe and later Protestant leaders including John Wesley, the co-founder of Methodism.\nIn the Evangelical Lutheran faith, in addition to being taught in the Smalcald Articles, the Formula of Concord upholds the perpetual virginity of Mary. The Lutheran divine Melanchthon lambasted Osiander for his denial of the perpetual virginity of Mary. As such, many Lutheran divines have taught the perpetual virginity of Mary.\nWith respect to the Reformed tradition (Continental Reformed, Presbyterian, Reformed Anglican and Congregationalist denominations), John Calvin's view was more ambiguous, believing that knowing what happened to Mary after the birth of Jesus is impossible. However John Calvin argued that \"Matthew 1:25\", used by Helvidius to attack the perpetual virginity of Mary does not teach that Mary had other children. Other Calvinists affirmed Mary's perpetual virginity, including within the Second Helvetic Confession\u2014stating that Mary was the \"ever virgin Mary\"\u2014and in the notes of the Geneva Bible. Theodore Beza, a prominent early Calvinist, included the perpetual virginity of Mary in a list of agreements between Calvinism and the Catholic Church. Some reformers upheld the doctrine to counter more radical reformers who questioned the divinity of Christ; Mary's perpetual virginity guaranteed the Incarnation of Christ despite the challenges to its scriptural foundations. Modern nonconformist Protestants, such as the Plymouth Brethren, have largely rejected the perpetual virginity of Mary on the basis of \"sola scriptura,\" and it has rarely appeared explicitly in confessions or doctrinal statements, though the perpetual virginity of Mary remains a common belief in Lutheranism and Anglicanism.\nAmong the Anabaptists, Hubmaier never abandoned his belief in the perpetual virginity of Mary and continued to esteem Mary as theotokos (\"mother of God\"). These two doctrinal stances are addressed individually in Articles Nine and Ten, respectively, of Hubmaier's work, \"Apologia\".\nDoctrine.\nThe Second Council of Constantinople recognized Mary as \"Aeiparthenos\", meaning \"ever-virgin\". It remains axiomatic for the Eastern Orthodox Church that she remained virginal throughout her Earthly life, and Orthodoxy therefore understands the New Testament references to the brothers and sisters of Jesus as signifying his kin, but not the biological children of his mother.\nThe Latin Church, known more commonly today as the Catholic Church, shared the Council of Constantinople with the theologians of the Greek or Orthodox communion, and therefore shares with them the title \"Aeiparthenos\" as accorded to Mary. The Catholic Church has gone further than the Orthodox in making the Perpetual Virginity one of the four Marian dogmas, meaning that it is held to be a truth divinely revealed, the denial of which is heresy. It declares her virginity before, during and after the birth of Jesus, or in the definition formulated by Pope Martin I at the Lateran Council of 649:The blessed ever-virginal and immaculate Mary conceived, without seed, by the Holy Spirit, and without loss of integrity brought him forth, and after his birth preserved her virginity inviolate.\nThomas Aquinas admitted that reason could not prove this, but argued that it must be accepted because it was \"fitting\", for as Jesus was the only-begotten son of God, so he should also be the only-begotten son of Mary, as a second and purely human conception would disrespect the sacred state of her holy womb. Symbolically, the perpetual virginity of Mary signifies a new creation and a fresh start in salvation history. It has been stated and argued repeatedly, most recently by the Second Vatican Council:\nArguments and evidence.\nA problem facing theologians wishing to maintain Mary's life-long virginity is that the Pauline epistles, the four gospels, and the Acts of the Apostles all mention the brothers (\"adelphoi\") of Jesus; both Matthew and Mark record their names and add unnamed sisters. The \"Gospel of James\", followed a century later by Epiphanius, explained the \"adelphoi\" as Joseph's children by an earlier marriage, which is still the view of the Eastern Orthodox Christian churches. Jerome, believing that Joseph, like Mary, must be a life-long virgin, argued that these \"adelphoi\" were the sons of \"Mary, the mother of James and Joses\" (), who he identified with the wife of Clopas and sister of the virgin Mary (John 19:25), which remains popular in the Western church. A modern proposal considers these \"adelphoi\" sons of \"Mary, the mother of James and Joses\" (not here identified with the Virgin Mary's sister), and Clopas, who according to Hegesippus was Joseph's brother.\nFurther scriptural difficulties were added by , which calls Jesus the \"first-born\" son of Mary, and , which adds that Joseph \"did not know her until she had brought forth her firstborn son.\" The phrase \"did not know her\" is a euphemism for sexual relations. Most scholars argue the grammar of Matthew 1:25 neither confirms nor denies the perpetual virginity of Mary. However, other scholars challenge this claim, especially in light of discoveries in modern linguistics.\nHelvidius argued that first-born implies later births, and that the word \"until\" left open the way to sexual relations after the birth; Jerome, replying that even an only son will be a first-born and that \"until\" did not have the meaning Helvidius construed for it, told a repulsive word-portrait of Joseph having intercourse with a blood-stained and exhausted Mary immediately after she has given birth\u2014the implication, in his view, of Helvidius's arguments. Opinions on the quality of Jerome's rebuttal range from the view that it was masterful and well-argued to thin, rhetorical and sometimes tasteless.\nTwo other 4th century Fathers, Gregory of Nyssa, following \"a certain apocryphal account\", and Augustine, advanced a further argument by reading Luke 1:34 as a vow of perpetual virginity on Mary's part; this idea, first introduced in the Protoevangelium of James, has little scholarly support today, but it and the arguments advanced by Jerome and Ambrose were put forward by Pope John Paul II in his catechesis of August 28, 1996, as the four facts supporting the Catholic Church's ongoing faith in Mary's perpetual virginity.\nIt has been argued from John 19, where Jesus entrusts Mary to the disciple John instead of his brothers, to support the view that Jesus had no brothers, however Protestants have generally argued in two ways against this passage, one by claiming that the brothers of Jesus were unbelievers or that they were not present during the crucifixion. This interpretation is generally rejected by Catholic and Orthodox writers, emphasising that even if non believers, Jewish customs still required the eldest son to take responsibility for his mother.\nSome have argued that Mary and Joseph could not have had a normal marriage if Mary remained a perpetual virgin; however, it has been argued by some Catholics that there is evidence that celibacy within marriage was already practiced by the Qumran community and other Jews at that time.\nCatholic priest and New Testament scholar John P. Meier argues that although the preponderance of scriptural evidence indicates that Jesus had siblings, the evidence is not conclusive enough to disprove the perpetual virginity of Mary."}
{"id": "715182", "revid": "51035380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715182", "title": "Roshnai Gate", "text": "Roshnai Gate () is one of the thirteen gates within the Walled City of Lahore in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. It was the main entry into Lahore for emperors and nobles during the Mughal, and later Sikh period.\nIts extended height and width is testament to its use by emperors' caravans of elephants. Since the Ravi river once flowed alongside the northern wall of the Lahore Fort and the Badshahi Mosque, the gate was profusely illuminated during night to aid travelers. It is for this reason that the gate has been named as \u201cRoshnai Darwaza\u201d or the \u201cgate of light\u201d. It is considered to be the oldest of Lahore's gates, and is only gate that has been preserved in its original shape."}
{"id": "715186", "revid": "57939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715186", "title": "Piling-up lemma", "text": "In cryptanalysis, the piling-up lemma is a principle used in linear cryptanalysis to construct linear approximations to the action of block ciphers. It was introduced by Mitsuru Matsui (1993) as an analytical tool for linear cryptanalysis. The lemma states that the bias (deviation of the expected value from 1/2) of a linear Boolean function (XOR-clause) of independent binary random variables is related to the product of the input biases:\nor\nwhere formula_3 is the bias (towards zero) and formula_4 the \"imbalance\":\nConversely, if the lemma does not hold, then the input variables are not independent.\nInterpretation.\nThe lemma implies that XOR-ing independent binary variables always reduces the bias (or at least does not increase it); moreover, the output is unbiased if and only if there is at least one unbiased input variable.\nNote that for two variables the quantity formula_7 is a correlation measure of formula_8 and formula_9, equal to formula_10; formula_11 can be interpreted as the correlation of formula_8 with formula_13.\nExpected value formulation.\nThe piling-up lemma can be expressed more naturally when the random variables take values in formula_14. If we introduce variables formula_15 (mapping 0 to 1 and 1 to -1) then, by inspection, the XOR-operation transforms to a product:\nand since the expected values are the imbalances, formula_17, the lemma now states:\nwhich is a known property of the expected value for independent variables.\nFor dependent variables the above formulation gains a (positive or negative) covariance term, thus the lemma does not hold. In fact, since two Bernoulli variables are independent if and only if they are uncorrelated (i.e. have zero covariance; see uncorrelatedness), we have the converse of the piling up lemma: if it does not hold, the variables are not independent (uncorrelated).\nBoolean derivation.\nThe piling-up lemma allows the cryptanalyst to determine the probability that the equality:\nholds, where the \"X\"s are binary variables (that is, bits: either 0 or 1).\nLet \"P\"(A) denote \"the probability that A is true\". If it equals one, A is certain to happen, and if it equals zero, A cannot happen. First of all, we consider the piling-up lemma for two binary variables, where formula_20 and formula_21.\nNow, we consider:\nDue to the properties of the xor operation, this is equivalent to\n\"X\"1 = \"X\"2 = 0 and \"X\"1 = \"X\"2 = 1 are mutually exclusive events, so we can say\nNow, we must make the central assumption of the piling-up lemma: the binary variables we are dealing with are independent; that is, the state of one has no effect on the state of any of the others. Thus we can expand the probability function as follows:\nNow we express the probabilities \"p\"1 and \"p\"2 as + \u03b51 and + \u03b52, where the \u03b5's are the probability biases \u2014 the amount the probability deviates from .\nThus the probability bias \u03b51,2 for the XOR sum above is 2\u03b51\u03b52.\nThis formula can be extended to more \"X\"s as follows:\nNote that if any of the \u03b5's is zero; that is, one of the binary variables is unbiased, the entire probability function will be unbiased \u2014 equal to .\nA related slightly different definition of the bias is\nformula_26 \nin fact minus two times the previous value. The advantage is that now with\nwe have\nadding random variables amounts to multiplying their (2nd definition) biases.\nPractice.\nIn practice, the \"X\"s are approximations to the S-boxes (substitution components) of block ciphers. Typically, \"X\" values are inputs to the S-box and \"Y\" values are the corresponding outputs. By simply looking at the S-boxes, the cryptanalyst can tell what the probability biases are. The trick is to find combinations of input and output values that have probabilities of zero or one. The closer the approximation is to zero or one, the more helpful the approximation is in linear cryptanalysis.\nHowever, in practice, the binary variables are not independent, as is assumed in the derivation of the piling-up lemma. This consideration has to be kept in mind when applying the lemma; it is not an automatic cryptanalysis formula."}
{"id": "715188", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715188", "title": "Henry Saari", "text": "Henry the Great Saari (born 14 January 1964, in Pori, Finland), also known as Henry the Great (\"Henry Suuri\") is a Finnish actor, director and porn star. In 1993, Saari won the title of Mr. Finland and placed 3rd in the Mr. Europe contest. He is known colloquially in Spanish-speaking countries as \u201cEl Cinturonero de Finland.\u201d\nSaari is best known for the five eponymous \"Henry the Great\" movies he directed and starred in between 1998 and 2001. Aside from his pornographic work, Saari had parts in the Hollywood movie \"History Is Made at Night\" (1999) and the mainstream Finnish movies \"Young Gods\" (2003) and \"Bunny the Killer Thing\" (2015).\nHis porn career continued until 2003, when he was granted a disability pension due to a knee injury, heralding the end of Saari's adult entertainment career. He has said that the knee injury that led to his disability pension occurred 30 years earlier, in a football match played in the army."}
{"id": "715193", "revid": "46561894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715193", "title": "Henry Ian Cusick", "text": "Henry Ian Cusick (born 17 April 1967) is a Peruvian-Scottish actor of television, film, and theatre and a television director best known as Desmond Hume in \"Lost\", for which he received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination. He also starred as Jesus in \"The Gospel of John\", Stephen Finch on \"Scandal\", Marcus Kane on \"The 100\", Dr. Jonas Lear in \"The Passage\", and Russell \"Russ\" Taylor on \"MacGyver\".\nEarly life.\nCusick was born in Trujillo, Peru, to a Peruvian mother, Esperanza Ch\u00e1vez, and a Scottish father, Henry Joseph Cusick. When he was two, his family moved to Madrid, Spain, before moving to Trinidad and Tobago, where they lived for ten years. There Cusick attended Presentation College, San Fernando. He moved to Newton Mearns, a town just outside of Glasgow in Scotland, with his family at the age of fourteen. Cusick attended the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama and was asked to resign in his second year there due to attendance issues. He got his first acting role at the Citizens' Theatre as an understudy in the Christmas Panto playing a polar bear. He appeared in various productions for the Strathclyde Theatre Group in Glasgow. He is fluent in both English and Spanish, and was raised Roman Catholic.\nCareer.\nCusick began his career as a classical theatre actor. His first leading roles onstage included Dorian Gray in \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" with Rupert Everett, Hamlet in \"The Marovitz Hamlet\", and Horner in \"The Country Wife\". His 1994 performances as Torquato Tasso in the Edinburgh International Festival production of \"Torquato Tasso\", and Creon in the Citizens' Theatre production of \"Oedipus\", earned him a commendation at the 1995 Ian Charleson Awards for outstanding performance by a young actor in a classical theatre role.\nOn screen, after appearing in recurring roles in television series such as \"Casualty\" and \"The Book Group\", he starred as Jesus Christ in the 2003 film \"The Visual Bible: The Gospel of John\". His largest role to date came in 2005 when he was cast as Desmond Hume in the ABC series \"Lost\". Originally a recurring guest star in the second season (for which he received an Emmy nomination), Cusick became a member of the main cast from seasons three to six. Cusick won the role when, while staying at the home of his friend Brian Cox, he met Cox's next-door neighbor, Carlton Cuse, the executive producer of \"Lost\". Cusick stated he believes \"a seed (was) planted, because they had been looking for either a Scottish or Irish character.\"\nHe also appeared as Theo Stoller in two episodes of season 5 of \"24\" and the 2007 film \"Hitman\". He stars in the direct-to-DVD film \", a continuation of the cult classic television show of the same name.\nCusick appeared in two episodes of \" in the twelfth season, playing Erik Weber, a vigilante with a Citizens Organized Against Predators group. He was in ABC's \"Scandal\" in 2011, but left the following year.\nHe also played Trent Marsh in \"Body of Proof\" and portrayed the major character Marcus Kane in \"The 100\", which premiered in March 2014.\nCusick also directed a short film called \"Dress\", filmed in his home town, Kailua, Hawaii, winning the best short at HIFF and Peace on Earth Film Festival.\nIn 2017, Cusick partnered with tech start-up JamBios to promote its reminiscing and memory-sharing social platform. He plays the voice of Monty, the digital biographer, and recorded over 200 questions that Monty asks users to help spur their memories. Cusick's wife Annie is the curator of the JamBios Memory Gallery.\nPersonal life.\nCusick and his wife Annie Cusick Wood are parents to three sons; Eli (b. 1994), Lucas (b. 1998), and Esau (b. 2000)."}
{"id": "715195", "revid": "4626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715195", "title": "Perpetual Viriginity of Mary", "text": ""}
{"id": "715199", "revid": "294809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715199", "title": "Archpriest Avvakum", "text": ""}
{"id": "715200", "revid": "48911534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715200", "title": "Democratic globalization", "text": "Democratic globalization is a social movement towards an institutional system of global democracy. One of its proponents is the British political thinker David Held. In the last decade, Held published a dozen books regarding the spread of democracy from territorially defined nation states to a system of global governance that encompasses the entire world. For some, democratic mundialisation (from the French term mondialisation) is a variant of democratic globalisation that emphasizes the need for citizens worldwide to directly elect world leaders and members of global institutions; for others, it is just democratic globalization by another name.\nThese proponents state that democratic globalisation's purpose is to:\nDemocratic globalization supporters state that the choice of political orientations should be left to the world citizens via their participation in world democratic institutions. Some proponents in the anti-globalization movement do not necessarily disagree with this position. For example, George Monbiot, normally associated with the anti-globalization movement (who prefers the term global justice movement), has proposed in his work \"Age of Consent\" similar democratic reforms of most major global institutions, suggesting direct democratic elections of such bodies and a form of world government.\nBackground.\nDemocratic globalization supports the extension of political democratization to economic and financial globalization. It is based upon an idea that free international transactions benefit the global society as a whole. They believe in financially\nopen economies, where the government and central bank must be transparent in order to retain the confidence of the markets, since transparency spells doom for autocratic regimes. They promote democracy that makes leaders more accountable to the citizenry through the removal of restrictions on such transactions.\nSocial movements.\nThe democratic globalization movement started to get public attention when New York Times reported its demonstration to contest a World Trade Organization (WTO) in Seattle, Washington, November 1999. This gathering was to criticize unfair trade and undemocratic globalization of the WTO, World Bank, World Economic Forum (WEF), the International Monetary Fund. Its primary tactics were public rallies, street theater and civil disobedience.\nDemocratic globalization, proponents claim, would be reached by creating democratic global institutions and changing international organizations (which are currently intergovernmental institutions controlled by the nation-states), into global ones controlled by world citizens. The movement suggests to do it gradually by building a limited number of democratic global institutions in charge of a few crucial fields of common interest. Its long-term goal is that these institutions federate later into a full-fledged democratic world government.\nGlobal democracy.\nThus, it supports the International Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, that would allow for participation of member nations' legislators and, eventually, direct election of United Nations (UN) parliament members by citizens worldwide.\nDifferences with anti-globalization.\nDemocratic globalization supporters state that the choice of political orientations should be left to the world citizens, via their participation in world democratic institutions and direct vote for world presidents (see presidentialism).\nSome supporters of the \"anti-globalization movement\" do not necessarily disagree with this position. For example, George Monbiot, normally associated with the anti-globalization movement (who prefers the term Global Justice Movement) in his work \"Age of Consent\" has proposed similar democratic reforms of most major global institutions, suggesting direct democratic elections of such bodies by citizens, and suggests a form of \"federal world government\".\nProcedure.\nDemocratic globalization, proponents claim, would be reached by creating democratic global institutions and changing international organizations (which are currently intergovernmental institutions controlled by the nation-states), into global ones controlled by voting by the citizens. The movement suggests to do it gradually by building a limited number of democratic global institutions in charge of a few crucial fields of common interest. Its long-term goal is that these institutions federate later into a full-fledged democratic world government.\nThey propose the creation of world services for citizens, like world civil protection and prevention (from natural hazards) services.\nProponents.\nThe concept of democratic globalization has supporters from all fields. Many of the campaigns and initiatives for global democracy, such as the UNPA campaign, list quotes by and names of their supporters on their websites.\nAcademics.\nSome of the most prolific proponents are the British political thinker David Held and the Italian political theorist Daniele Archibugi. In the last decade they published several books regarding the spread of democracy from territorially defined nation states to a system of global governance that encapsulates the entire planet. Richard Falk has developed the idea from an international law perspective, Ulrich Beck from a sociological approach and J\u00fcrgen Habermas has elaborate the normative principles."}
{"id": "715202", "revid": "21479757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715202", "title": "Bongwater", "text": "Bongwater may refer to:"}
{"id": "715204", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715204", "title": "United States Insular areas", "text": ""}
{"id": "715205", "revid": "19416659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715205", "title": "Culmer White", "text": ""}
{"id": "715207", "revid": "33722924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715207", "title": "Sleepaway Camp", "text": "Sleepaway Camp is a 1983 American slasher film written and directed by Robert Hiltzik, and starring Mike Kellin (in his last on-screen appearance), Katherine Kamhi, and Paul DeAngelo alongside Jonathan Tiersten, Felissa Rose, Christopher Collet (in his film debut), and Karen Fields. The original entry in the \"Sleepaway Camp\" film series, it focuses on serial killings which occur at a summer camp for teenagers.\nFilmed in upstate New York in the fall of 1982, \"Sleepaway Camp\" was released the following year by United Film Distributors. It earned approximately $11 million at the box office, but was met by largely unfavorable reviews from critics, many of whom deemed it exploitative and derivative of such films as \"Friday the 13th\" (1980).\nIn the years since its release, \"Sleepaway Camp\" has gone on to develop a cult following, a more positive reappraisal from critics, as well as garnering notoriety for its twist ending, which has been named as one of the most shocking and unforgettable in cinematic history.\nIt was followed by four sequels: ' (1988), ' (1989), \"Return to Sleepaway Camp\" (2008) and \"\" (2012).\nPlot.\nIn 1975, John Baker and his boyfriend, Lenny, take John\u2019s children, Angela and Peter, on a boating trip. After the boat capsizes, John and the children try to swim to shore, but they swim into the path of a reckless motorboat and are struck. John and one of the children are killed.\nEight years later, Angela, the surviving child, is traumatized and lives with her eccentric aunt, Dr. Martha Thomas, and cousin Ricky Thomas. Angela and Ricky are sent to Camp Arawak. Angela\u2019s introverted nature makes her a target for bullying by fellow camper Judy and camp counselor Meg. The head cook, Artie, attempts to sexually assault her, but Ricky intervenes. Later, an unseen figure causes Artie to be severely scalded by boiling water. Artie is rushed to the hospital, and camp owner Mel Kostic dismisses the incident as accidental.\nCampers Kenny and Mike mock Angela, prompting Ricky and his friend Paul to confront them. Paul befriends Angela. Later, after Kenny is out at night on the lake and capsizes his canoe, an unseen figure confronts Kenny. Kenny is found the next morning, drowned, and Mel again rules the death an accident. Paul asks Angela to go to the movies with him and kisses her. Campers Billy and Jimmy throw a water balloon at Angela, then Billy is killed when someone traps him in a public toilet with a beehive, exploiting his allergy. Mel begins to suspect a killer is at the camp.\nTensions rise as Angela and Paul\u2019s relationship becomes strained. When Paul kisses her again, she has a flashback to witnessing her father with Lenny. Judy seduces Paul, and Angela finds them kissing. Paul tries to explain, but Judy goads Meg into carrying Angela to the pier and dumping Angela into the water. Mel stops Ricky from helping by holding him by the arms while accusing Ricky of harming campers to protect Angela; Ronnie intervenes. While Ricky helps Angela out of the water and back to the beach, four small children throw sand at Angela. Ricky comforts her, swearing revenge. Right after dinner, Meg is killed during her shower in one of the vacated cabins.\nDuring the camp social, Paul apologizes to Angela, and she tells him to meet her by the water. Meanwhile, Mel discovers Meg\u2019s body, and camp counselor Eddie finds the bodies of the four children who threw sand at Angela, brutally murdered in their sleeping bags. Soon after, Judy is killed by being vaginally penetrated with a hot electric curling iron. Panic spreads through the camp. Believing Ricky is the killer, Mel beats him unconscious, then runs into the woods, encountering the real assailant. Horrified, Mel recognizes the attacker before being killed by an arrow to the throat. Police begin searching for missing campers. Paul is at the beach with Angela, who suggests they go for a swim, while Officer Frank Breton finds Ricky alive but unconscious.\nCamp counselors Ronnie, Angelo, and Susie discover a naked Angela humming and clutching a hunting knife alongside Paul\u2019s severed head. They are shocked to realise that \"Angela\" is actually a boy. It turns out Angela is actually Peter, Angela's thought-to-be-dead brother. The real Angela had died in the boating accident, and Peter survived. After Martha gains custody of him, she decides to raise Peter as \"Angela\"; the girl she has always wanted. It is implied that Peter was mentally affected by being forced into the identity of his dead sister. The nude, blood-covered Angela/Peter stands before the horrified Susie and Ronnie, hissing and growling.\nProduction.\nDevelopment.\nWriter-director Robert Hiltzik, a New York University film school graduate, began developing the idea for \"Sleepaway Camp\" in the 1970s. He was inspired by his own experiences attending Camp Algonquin in Argyle, New York as a child. He was also inspired to make the film following the success of \"Friday the 13th\", though he has denied that the film was a direct inspiration on the screenplay.\nHiltzik privately raised funding for the film through friends, family, and other \"connections,\" eventually amassing a budget of $335,000 to make the film.\nCasting.\nUnlike many of its contemporaries, which had adults portraying youth, the cast of \"Sleepaway Camp\" was primarily made up of adolescent actors. During casting for the role of Angela Baker, actresses were asked to stare wide-eyed into the camera while pretending to eat a chocolate bar. Felissa Rose was cast in her debut role as the character, and was paid only $5,000 for her performance. Rose wore a bra to appear flat-chested. She made friends with all the kids on set. Frank Sorrentino was cast as the young Peter Baker at the beginning of the film. Dan Tursi, who played John Baker, was one of Hiltzik's classmates at New York University Tisch School of the Arts, where he appeared in three of Hiltzik's short films. When auditioning for the role of Ricky Thomas, Jonathan Tiersten was asked by Hiltzik to curse him out, and thus was given the role. Both he and Rose initially did not get along, so they were taken bowling in order to bond with each other. They developed a romance during filming, but broke up soon after. \nJane Krakowski was initially cast as Judy, but turned down the role upon learning of the character's death, and was replaced with Karen Fields. Fields improvised her performance, finding it fun to play a \"bad girl\" character. Christopher Collet was cast as Paul. Katherine Kamhi and Thomas E. van Dell, who played Meg and Mike, dated during production. Kamhi also became close with Rose and Fields. When filming the skinny dipping scene, Loris Sallahian, who played Billy, was displeased with the conditions and walked off the set, but returned after a personal chat with Hiltzik. John E. Dunn and Lisa Buckler were cast as Kenny and Leslie, respectively; during filming of the scene in which the canoe flips over in the lake, Dunn cut the top of his hand open and had to be rushed to hospital. Producer Michele Tatosian filled in for Buckler in the shot where Leslie swims away, as Buckler had gotten infectious mononucleosis and was sick.\nDesiree Gould was with the agency Marje Fields Talent in Manhattan, and was urged to audition for the role of Aunt Martha by her agent, Dorothy Scott. She appeared in only two scenes in the film, initially wanting to leave as she found Martha's dialogue too bizarre to say with a straight face. Hiltzik sought Mike Kellin to portray camp owner Mel Kostic, and managed to track him down to his home in Nyack, New York, after Kellin's agent initially rejected the screenplay. Tatosian managed to contact Kellin via phone, and convinced him to take the role. Kellin was ill with lung cancer during filming, and died on August 26, 1983, three months prior to the film's release.\nThe cast and crew's relatives and some local kids played some of the campers leaving the buses near the beginning of the film. Willy Kuskin, who played Mozart, was genuinely bullied by the other kids during filming. Frank Trent Saladino, who played Gene, had to intervene and protect him. The Glens Falls Police Department lent one of their uniforms to Allen Breton for his role as Officer Frank Breton. At one point, Breton shaved off his mustache during filming for another acting job, and had to wear a fake one for the film's remaining scenes.\nFilming.\nPrincipal photography of \"Sleepaway Camp\" took place at Camp Algonquin (which Hiltzik attended himself as a child) in Argyle, New York. Filming began in September 1982 and lasted five weeks. Hiltzik dedicated the film to his mother, who died in a car accident before production began. The film had been storyboarded but after the first day of filming, the film was already behind schedule. The storyboards could not be used and were thrown out. The trees, with their leaves turning, belie the summer setting of the film.\nSeveral crew members, including costume designer Eileen Sieff and mechanical effects technician Ed Fountain, were hired by production manager Carl Clifford; Clifford, Fountain and Sieff had previously worked on George A. Romero's \"Creepshow\" (1982). \nSpecial effects.\nThe practical and makeup effects were done by Ed French, Diane Lawrence, and Suzen Poshek. Jonathan Tiersten performed Angela's killing scenes since Felissa Rose's contract stated that she would not do the killings on-screen due to her young age. A lifecast of John E. Dunn was used for Kenny's death scene. The effects used for Billy's death were achieved using a dummy with sugar mixture on its face to attract the bees.\nFor the scene in which \"Angela\" is revealed to be Peter Baker, Rose was originally going to wear a prosthetic penis. Archie Liberace, a local college student, was paid $200 to fill in for Rose. Liberace had to be drunk before filming the scene. He shaved his body and stood naked on the waterfront, wearing a mask of Angela's face. The mask, designed by French, featured glass eyes and was crafted out of dental acrylic.\nMusic.\nHiltzik wanted an orchestral score for the film to differentiate it from other slasher films in the 1980s, which used synthesized scores. He met Edward Bilous in a coffee shop, who was writing sheet music. Bilous wrote and composed the film's instrumental score. The songs \"Angela's Theme\" (which plays over the end credits), \"Tonight You're Mine\" and \"Take a Chance\" were written and performed by Frankie Vinci, imitating Dave Bowie. They were recorded using a 4-track Teac cassette recorder, a Fender Stratocaster electric guitar, a Yamaha keyboard, and a Boss drum machine.\nRelease.\nHiltzik initially shopped the film to Paramount Pictures and Troma Entertainment before securing a distribution deal with United Film Distributors, an independent company based on Long Island. Hiltzik stated that United Film Distributors offered the benefit of owning numerous theaters nationwide who could screen the film, as well as handling local advertising on MTV.\n\"Sleepaway Camp\" premiered in New York City on November 18, 1983. It was next released in Florida on January 27, 1984, with screenings beginning in Bradenton, Miami, and West Palm Beach. Screenings began in Texas on February 10, 1984, including in Austin, Fort Worth, and Houston.\nThe film opened in the San Francisco Bay Area on March 23, 1984, followed by a Los Angeles release on May 25, 1984. It was released regionally in other markets in the fall of 1984, with a Cincinnati, Ohio release beginning September 7, 1984.\nHome media.\nIn the United Kingdom, the film was released on VHS by CBS/Fox Video under the alternative title \"Nightmare Vacation\" in the spring of 1984.\nIn the United States, Anchor Bay Entertainment released \"Sleepaway Camp\" on DVD on August 8, 2000. Anchor Bay reissued this disc as part of a four-disc set titled the \"Sleepaway Camp Survival Kit\" on August 20, 2002, which also contained the film's two sequels, as well as a bonus disc featuring footage from the unfinished third sequel. This boxed set, which featured a medical red cross on the front cover, was discontinued in late 2002 after the Red Cross filed a complaint against Anchor Bay, which subsequently redesigned the box art to remove the cross logo. In 2005, the Canadian-based Legacy Entertainment released a region-free budget DVD release of the film. Unlike the original VHS release, this release contains numerous edits to the film to either shorten violence or certain moments like dialogue.\nScream Factory released the film in a collector's edition Blu-ray set on May 27, 2014. This release contains a 2K scan of the original camera negative, and this release also has the film in its original uncut version, unlike the DVD released by Anchor Bay.\nReception.\nBox office.\nUpon its New York City release over the Thanksgiving week in 1983, \"Sleepaway Camp\" grossed $430,000 from 85 theaters. The film earned $90,000 during its opening weekend in Los Angeles in May 1984, screening at 15 theaters. By June 10, 1984 the film ranked among the top-twenty highest grossing films at the U.S. box office that week. By the end of its theatrical run, it had gone on to gross a total of $11 million.\nCritical response.\nContemporary.\nUpon its original release, the film was frequently compared to \"Friday the 13th\" due to their shared settings and whodunit plot structure. A review in \"The Courier-Journal\" characterized the film as a \"low-budget slasher in the \"Friday the 13th\" mold, with teen-age mayhem at a summer camp\", while Rick Lyman of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" uniformly lambasted the film, criticizing its performances, writing, and twist ending. Linda Gross of the \"Los Angeles Times\" felt the film was derivative and gruesome, but conceded that its pacing was adept and that director Hiltzik portrayed the often cruel and abusive behavior of teenagers towards another young person.\nIn the \"Chula Vista Star-News\"s review, the film was deemed \"a tasteless picture about mysterious murders at a summer youth camp that obscenely blends beheadings, stabbings, pubescent impulses, homosexuality, and transvestism\" with a cast of junior-high-school actors. George Williams of \"The Sacramento Bee\" made similar criticisms of the acting, and described the film as \"mindless\" and \"dirty\". Paul Willistein of \"The Morning Call\" described the film as \"simply horrible\", writing that its campy sensibility is unsuccessful as it is \"intended to be a bonafide horror film\".\n\"The News-Press\" gave it a favorable review, calling it \"a shockingly good slasher film, if you use the relatively fine, first \"Friday the 13th\" as a measuring stick... it's just another crazed killer stalking nubile summer campers. But, this time, there are some truly creative killings and interesting plot twists\". The \"San Francisco Chronicle\"s Peter Stack also praised the film as a \"great scuzz movie from top to bottom\" and a \"little masterpiece of hostility comedy,\" noting that \"there's not one likable character, a factor that should serve as an excellent release valve for all the people who absolutely hate teenagers.\" Richard Martin, writing for the \"Ottawa Citizen\", found the film's screenplay underdeveloped and lacking suspense, but praised its conclusion as effective and frightening, noting: \"The very last image of \"Sleepaway Camp\" is so shocking and deeply disturbing it's given me goosebumps every time I recall it.\"\nModern assessment.\nIn the years since its release, \"Sleepaway Camp\" has developed a cult following and garnered critical reappraisal. Its twist ending has been distinguished by audiences and critics as one of the most shocking in the slasher genre's history, as well as in cinema history in general.\n On Metacritic, the film was reviewed by four critics and got a rank of 58 out of a 100, which indicates \"mixed or average reviews\".\nThe website \"Bloody Disgusting\" gave the film a positive review, praising Felissa Rose's performance and the film's twist ending calling it \"one of the most shocking seen since, possibly, Hitchcock's \"Psycho\"\". AllMovie wrote in its review on the film: \"While most of the gender-bending story's sexual confusion is ultimately half-baked... \"Sleepaway Camp\" is distinctive enough to warrant required viewing for genre enthusiasts\".\nFilm scholar Bart\u0142omiej Paszylk called the film \"an exceptionally bad movie but a very good slasher\". Commenting on the performances in the film, film scholar Thomas Sipos wrote that \"[the film] feels odd due to its contrasting acting styles. Most of the cast performs in a naturalistic manner, whereas Desiree Gould's performance as Aunt Martha is strikingly stylistic: broadly overplayed to the point of caricature\".\nIn his book \"The Pleasure and Pain of Cult Horror Films: A Historical Survey\" (2009), Paszylk characterized \"Sleepaway Camp\" as \"elevat[ing] the kids to the position of the movie's mass protagonist and becomes a tricky metaphor of the unspeakable pains and anxieties of growing up\". He further commented on the film's conclusion: \"The epiphanous ending brings \"Sleepaway Camp\" further away from the likes of \"Friday the 13th\" and closer to such 1980s 'slashers with a twist' as \"Happy Birthday to Me\" (1981) and \"April Fool's Day\" (1986), but Hiltzik's movie goes even further than that: in this case the denouement doesn't just add a new dimension to everything we saw up to this point, but it pushes its way deep into our minds and stays with us forever\".\nThe film was featured on episode 48 of the podcast \"How Did This Get Made?\" where hosts Paul Scheer, Jason Mantzoukas, June Diane Raphael, and guest host Zack Pearlman struggled to decipher the film's opening moments, due to the ambiguous relationships established at the beginning of the film. Scheer later recalled that it had been the most fan-requested film \"by a landslide\".\nCriticism.\n\"Sleepaway Camp\" has garnered contemporary criticism for its representation of a transgender villain. Willow Maclay, a transgender writer for \"Cl\u00e9o\" magazine, criticized the film for its \"equation of mental instability with having grown up in a gender role not concurrent with your identity. Nearly every single transgender person grows up being raised in a gender role that does not fit, and that doesn't mean that they are mentally ill or seriously violent\". BJ Colangelo, in an editorial for \"Dread Central\", similarly felt the film had transphobic and homophobic implications due to its representation of Angela (Rose) and Angela's gay father John Baker (Dan Tursi), but conceded that the film has metaphorical merit for showing the unfavorable and violent consequences for a character who is forced into gender roles that do not align with their identity.\nCalpernia Addams, a transgender author and activist, commented in a 2021 interview with \"Fangoria\" that the character of Angela \"is not even really trans...\u00a0 This whole situation with Angela is a child who was forced into this quote-unquote transition\". She compared the character to David Reimer, a Canadian man who, as a child, was forced by his parents to live as a girl following a botched circumcision. Addams further stated that the film should be assessed in the context of the period in which it was made: \"I would just say that I enjoy \"Sleepaway Camp\" for what it is, which is schlocky '80s horror with a unique twist ending. And I think it's the worst possible portrayal of a supposedly trans storyline, \"\u00e0 la\" Buffalo Bill, or \"Dressed to Kill\", or any of those types of films. But at the same time, I don't want it censored or canceled. And if you just sit back and let yourself, it can be an enjoyable watch\".\nTransgender writer Alice Collins of \"Bloody Disgusting\" said that \"Sleepaway Camp\" \"is steeped in queerness, especially when compared to its contemporaries. In its day it took a deeper look into the subject matter than that of other films. Angela and Peter's dad is a closeted gay man, there's forced gender bending (which is abuse rather than queer but people will see it as such), and the majority of the scantily clad people in the film are men with all those very short shorts that leave little to the imagination while there is little skin shown of the feminine variety\". Collins argues that Angela is a transgender girl, noting that, in the film's sequels, Angela is presented as a woman who uses feminine pronouns: \"So despite Aunt Martha being insane, she just happened to stumble upon a person who was already a girl; and it was an accident that her brainwashing worked\".\nActress Felissa Rose defended the film in a 2023 interview: \"I absolutely don't feel like it's transphobic. I feel as though Angela was a typical adolescent trying to find her gender identification and sexual orientation and I thought that was extremely exciting for 1982. It was ahead of its time. You can see with her father and his lover as well as her relationship with Paul [her camp crush], who she was trying to understand her relationship with, I feel like it was an adolescent story of a young person coming of age\".\nOther media.\nSequels.\nIn the late 1980s, Hiltzik sold the rights to the successive \"Sleepaway Camp\" films, after which Michael A. Simpson directed two sequels, ' (1988) and ' (1989). In them, Angela (now played by Bruce Springsteen's younger sister, Pamela Springsteen) resurfaces at a nearby summer camp, but this time masquerading as a counselor after a sex reassignment surgery. Much like at the previous camp, she gleefully tortures and kills anyone who misbehaves or annoys her. These films had more of a satirical comic tone than the original.\nAnother sequel, \"\", directed by Jim Markovic, was partially filmed in the early 1990s but left incomplete. In 2002, the unfinished footage was released and made available as an exclusive fourth disc in Anchor Bay/Starz Entertainment's \"Sleepaway Camp\" DVD boxed set. In 2012, the film was completed using archival footage from the first three films and released on DVD and Amazon Video on Demand.\nA fifth film, \"Return to Sleepaway Camp\", was completed in 2003 and initially struggled to have its visual effects completed. It was directed by Robert Hiltzik, the director of the original 1983 film. According to \"Fangoria\", the digital effects were redone from 2006 to 2008. The film was released in 2008.\nThe purportedly final film in the \"Sleepaway Camp\" series, titled \"Sleepaway Camp Reunion\", was also announced to be in the works. Distribution had been arranged via Magnolia Pictures. Creator Robert Hiltzik, who recovered the rights to the franchise, has stated that he would make the film if his budget was met. However, Hiltzik and \"Return To Sleepaway Camp\" producer Jeff Hayes later announced themselves as having started work on a reboot that would retain the key characters and elements of the original film with additional storyline elements and a dose of modernizing. As of Summer 2014, Hiltzik was reportedly tweaking the script. In addition, Michael Simpson, the director of \"Sleepaway Camp II: Unhappy Campers\" and \"Sleepaway Camp III: Teenage Wasteland\", wrote a script for an additional film called \"Sleepaway Camp: Berserk\".\nKaren Fields reprised her role of Judy from \"Sleepaway Camp\" in the 2014 short film \"Judy\", although it wasn't technically a sequel. The Jeff Hayes-directed film was included in the collector's edition Blu-ray release of the original \"Sleepaway Camp\".\nBy December 2020, another \"Sleepaway Camp\" installment was announced to be in development, starring Felissa Rose.\nIn September 2025, it was announced that Kenan Thompson's production company Artists for Artists (AFA) has acquired the rights to remake \"Sleepaway Camp\" with original writer/director Robert Hiltzik."}
{"id": "715211", "revid": "605696967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715211", "title": "Garion", "text": ""}
{"id": "715217", "revid": "52105686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715217", "title": "Michael Buffer", "text": "Michael Buffer (born November 2, 1944) is an American ring announcer (or \"MC\") for boxing, professional wrestling, and National Football League events. Pioneering a distinct announcing style in which he rolls certain letters and adds other inflections to a fighter\u2019s name, and known for his trademarked catchphrase: \"Let's get ready to rumble!\", he was inducted into the International Sports Hall of Fame in 2019.\nEarly life.\nBuffer was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on November 2, 1944. His father was enlisted in the United States Navy during World War II. Buffer's parents divorced when he was 11 months of age, and he was then raised by foster parents, a school bus driver and housewife, in Roslyn, Pennsylvania. He enlisted in the United States Army during the Vietnam War at age 20 and served until age 23. He held various jobs, including a car salesman, then began a modeling career at age 32 before becoming a ring announcer at age 38.\nCareer.\nBoxing.\nIn 1982, Buffer began his career as a ring announcer. By 1983, he was announcing all boxing matches promoted by Bob Arum's Top Rank on ESPN, which gave him a national identity at a time when ring announcers were strictly locally hired talent. By 1984, Buffer developed the catchphrase \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" in his announcing, which gained enormous popularity. He began the process of obtaining a federal trademark for the phrase in the 1980s, acquiring it in 1992. Consequently, Buffer has earned in excess of $400\u00a0million with the license for his trademark.\nIn 1991, Buffer signed a deal with HBO and became a permanent ring announcer on World Championship Boxing and on occasion he would sub for Jimmy Lennon Jr. on rival network Showtime on \"Showtime Championship Boxing\" and Lennon would occasionally sub for Buffer on HBO as well.\nIn 2018, Buffer signed with DAZN to serve as the exclusive ring announcer for all of its boxing broadcasts, which include deals with Matchroom.\nWrestling.\nBuffer was formerly the exclusive ring announcer for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) main events featuring Hulk Hogan or other top WCW talent until 2001, when the organization folded. WCW's former parent company Time Warner owned through their pay-per-view subscription division HBO, which broadcast many matches from promoter Top Rank, of which Buffer is the lead ring announcer. The exclusivity of his contract with WCW prevented Buffer from announcing for other wrestling-type organizations, forcing him to stop announcing for the UFC (his only UFC cards were UFC 6 and UFC 7). However, when WCW ceased to exist, and Time Warner had no more affiliation with professional wrestling, Buffer was enabled to announce in other wrestling promotions. During the Monday Night War, while Buffer was on \"WCW Monday Nitro\", WWF wrestler Triple H created the phrase \"Let's get ready to suck it!\" to mock him, as part of his D-Generation X gimmick.\nOn \"Saturday Night's Main Event XXXV\", for the first time in more than six years, Buffer returned to pro-wrestling ring announcing duties at Madison Square Garden in a boxing match between pro boxer Evander Holyfield (who was substituting for Montel Vontavious Porter) and pro wrestler Matt Hardy. Buffer appears in the Royal Rumble 2008 advertisement, in which he begins to say \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" only to be superkicked by Shawn Michaels, causing him to fall over. As well as being in the commercial for the event, he was the guest ring announcer during the Royal Rumble match itself.\nOther sports.\nDuring his career, Buffer has announced the MLB World Series, the Stanley Cup Finals, NBA Finals, the Volunteer 500 at Bristol Motor Speedway, and NFL playoff games. He was a guest announcer at the 1999 Indianapolis 500 and the 2017 United States Grand Prix.\nBuffer, like his brother Bruce, announced early UFC fights, starting at UFC 6 in 1995. He was the host of the Versus boxing retro show \"Legends of the Ring\", produced by Top Rank, Inc., where he was ring announcer for most of their top matches.\nOn July 19, 2008, he announced the \"\" mixed martial arts show. On November 10, 2008, Buffer started the heads-up action between the two remaining players, Peter Eastgate and Ivan Demidov at the 2008 World Series of Poker final table with a modified version of his trademark statement: \"Let's get ready to shuffle up and deal.\"\nOn September 12, 2021, Buffer announced for NBC's \"Sunday Night Football\" matchup, where the Los Angeles Rams hosted the Chicago Bears at the first regular season NFL game with fan attendance in SoFi Stadium. He later announced at the Rams' first home playoff game against the Arizona Cardinals on January 17, 2022, and two weeks later, during the 2022 NFC Championship game against the San Francisco 49ers.\nOn June 28, 2024, Buffer announced his hometown Philadelphia Flyers's 13th overall pick of the first round of the 2024 NHL entry draft at the Sphere in Vegas using his trademarked catchphrase, introducing draft pick Jett Luchanko with his height and weight like Buffer would in the ring, along with Luchanko's previous team.\nIn February 2025, Buffer made the trip to England to announce the opening match of the Super League season at the Brick Community Stadium between defending champions the Wigan Warriors and local rivals the Leigh Leopards.\nHe also made appearances at pre-matches of semi-finals and the final of the 2025 FIFA Club World Cup\nOther appearances.\nBuffer has appeared on various talk shows hosted by Jay Leno, David Letterman, Arsenio Hall, Conan O'Brien, Jimmy Kimmel, and Jimmy Fallon. He has also appeared on \"Saturday Night Live\", \"In Living Color\", \"Mad TV\" and \"The Howard Stern Show\".\nHe appeared on NBC's \"Deal or No Deal\" on December 10, 2007, and opened the finale of the seventh season of \"American Idol\", a production of RTL. In 2011 he made an appearance on the 12th season of \"Dancing with the Stars\" to announce Sugar Ray Leonard week 3 dance. Buffer has also served as ringside announcer for the syndicated television game show \"The Grudge Match\", hosted by Steve Albert and Jesse Ventura.\nIn the 1997 film \"Hercules\", Hades uses Buffer's catchphrase \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" during Hercules' fight with Hydra.\nHe has played himself in various films including \"Ready to Rumble\" and \"Rocky Balboa\", and in 2008 Buffer appeared as Walbridge, the main villain in the comedy \"You Don't Mess with the Zohan\". His \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" soundbite is used briefly in the 2004 film \"\". He also appeared in the 2019 remake of \"Dumbo\", portraying a ringmaster who delivers the line \"Let's get ready for Dumbo!\" in his trademark cadence.\nBuffer has been animated in \"The Simpsons\", \"South Park\", and \"Celebrity Deathmatch\". Buffer also appears in the animated TV series \"Phineas and Ferb\" in the episode \"Raging Bully\", as the voice of the announcer for the big thumb-wrestling match with Phineas and Buford. Buffer appeared in the extended version of the Muppets webisode \"Food Fight\", where he is seen announcing the cooking competition between Gordon Ramsay and the Swedish Chef.\nHe's regularly featured in music, including on the introductory track of Tupac Shakur's \"All Eyez on Me\"\u2014his voice here was originally intended for a separate track titled \"Let's Get Ready To Rumble\", which did not appear on the final album. He appears as featuring artist on \"Let's Get Ready to Rumble\" and \"Go for It All!\" by German eurodance group the K.O.'s and his voice was sampled in the Ant &amp; Dec song \"Let's Get Ready to Rhumble\". He recorded the introduction track for country artist Josh Turner's 2012 album, \"Punching Bag\".\nIn 2013, Buffer appeared in Progressive Insurance commercials, promoting their program of combining different coverages into one policy, with a parody of his famous phrase \u2013 \"Let's get ready to bundle!\"\nBuffer reproduced as an action figure in both Toy Biz's WCW line and Jakks Pacific's Rocky line.\nIn 2022, Buffer introduced Daddy Yankee's final album \"Legendaddy\".\nBuffer was confirmed as the master of ceremonies for Probellum: Revolution at Dubai's Coca-Cola Arena on Saturday, December 11.\nTrademark.\nBuffer began using the phrase \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" in 1984. By 1992, he acquired a federal trademark for the phrase. Buffer uses his famous phrase in various licensing deals including the platinum selling album \"Jock Jams\" by Tommy Boy Records, the video games \"Ready 2 Rumble Boxing\", \"\" for the PlayStation 2, Nintendo 64, Dreamcast and Game Boy Advance and \"Greatest Heavyweights\" for the Sega Genesis and numerous other products. In addition, he has used variations of the phrase in advertisements, including the popular commercial for Mega Millions in which he says \"Let's get ready to Win Big!\" and the Kraft Cheese commercial in which he says \"Let's get ready to Crumble!\" and most recently for Progressive Insurance in which he says \"Let's get ready to bundle!\"\n, the catchphrase has generated $400\u00a0million in revenue from licensing the trademark.\nPersonal life.\nBuffer's fame has reunited him with long-lost family members. In 1989, he was contacted by his birth father, who introduced him to his half-brothers after seeing him on television. In the mid-1990s, Buffer brought along one of his half-brothers, Bruce Buffer, as his agent/manager. This grew into a business partnership to increase licensing productivity of the trademark.\nBuffer\u2019s first marriage was at age 21, but the marriage ended in divorce after seven years. He has two sons from his first marriage. More than 25 years passed before he remarried in 1999. He and his second wife divorced in 2003.\nOn September 13, 2007, while making an appearance on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", Buffer proposed to his current (third) wife, Christine. He resides in Southern California. His half-brother Bruce is an announcer for the Ultimate Fighting Championship, a leading mixed martial arts promotion.\nIn 2008, Buffer was treated for throat cancer."}
{"id": "715219", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715219", "title": "Release to manufacturing", "text": ""}
{"id": "715220", "revid": "35663571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715220", "title": "John Beradino", "text": "John Beradino (born Giovanni Berardino, May 1, 1917 \u2013 May 19, 1996) was an American Major League Baseball infielder and actor. Known as Johnny Berardino during his baseball career, he was also credited during his acting career as John Berardino, John Baradino, John Barardino or John Barradino.\nEarly life and education.\nBeradino was born in Los Angeles and was raised near Hollywood. He attended Belmont High School in downtown Los Angeles. Beradino won a football scholarship to the University of Southern California in 1936, but he soon switched to baseball.\nAlthough Beradino is sometimes believed to have appeared in the silent \"Our Gang\" comedies as a child actor, he has not been identified as having appeared in any of the existing films.\nCareer.\nBaseball.\nAfter attending the University of Southern California, where he played baseball under coach Sam Barry and was member of Phi Kappa Tau fraternity, Beradino was a major league player from 1939 to 1952, except for three years of military service in the U.S. Naval Reserve during World War II from 1942 to 1945. He played for the St. Louis Browns, Cleveland Indians and Pittsburgh Pirates, winning the World Series with the Indians in 1948. While primarily a middle infielder, playing second baseman or shortstop, he also played first and third base.\nAfter injuring his leg and being released by Pittsburgh in 1952, he retired from baseball and returned to acting, having appeared in his first film in 1948.\nActing.\nBeradino appeared briefly in an uncredited role as a state trooper in the 1954 thriller \"Suddenly\", starring Frank Sinatra and Sterling Hayden, and later performed as a policeman who allows Roger Thornhill (Cary Grant) to make a phone call to his mother in the 1959 Hitchcock thriller \"North by Northwest\".\nBeradino (still billed as John Berardino) played a cameo role in the 1954 sci-fi thriller \"Them!\". He also appeared in a 1956 episode of the television series \"Adventures of Superman\" titled \"The Unlucky Number\" as a small-time criminal struggling to reform.\nBeradino appeared twice on the Western series \"Annie Oakley:\" as Gorman in \"Annie Rides the Navajo Trail\" and as Roscoe Barnes in \"Amateur Outlaw\" (both 1956). He appeared as an outlaw in the opening scenes of Budd Boetticher's\"Seven Men From Now\" in 1956. He guest-starred on John Bromfield's syndicated crime drama with a modern Western setting, \"Sheriff of Cochise\", and Bromfield's successor series, \"U.S. Marshal\". He was also cast in an episode of David Janssen's crime drama series \"Richard Diamond, Private Detective\".\nBeradino played a minor gangster in \"The Untouchables\" pilot that originally aired as an installment in the \"Westinghouse Desilu Playhouse\". He then played the recurring role of gangster Augie Viale in two episodes from the first season of \"The Untouchables\" series, \"The Jake Lingle Killing\" and \"One-Armed Bandits\".\nOn December 2, 1959, Beradino appeared in the episode \"The Third Strike\" of the syndicated adventure series \"Rescue 8\", playing a professional baseball player who loses consciousness when struck by a wild pitch and awakens with short-term amnesia.\nAfter appearing in more than a dozen B-movies, as well as in supporting roles on the series \"I Led Three Lives\" and \"The New Breed\", he was offered the role of Dr. Steve Hardy on the soap opera \"General Hospital\". Beradino also played a version of his \"General Hospital\" character on an episode of \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\".\nRecognition.\nFor his contribution to the television industry, Beradino has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6801 Hollywood Blvd. He has also been inducted into the University of Southern California Athletic Hall of Fame.\nHe is the only person to have won a World Series (1948) and have his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame (1993).\nBeradino received three Daytime Emmy Award nominations for best actor in a daytime drama.\nIn tribute, \"General Hospital\" left Beradino's image with that of Rachel Ames in its opening sequence for more than a year after his death, through several updates. His image was finally removed in early 1998, but an action clip of Beradino's character remained in the sequence until its 2004 retirement.\nPersonal life and death.\nBeradino had two children, Toni and Cindy from his first marriage and two children, Katherine Ann and John Anthony from his second marriage. He was married to his third wife, Marjorie, at the time of his death.\nBeradino was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in 1996 and died later that year, aged 79, on May 19, 1996 in his Los Angeles home.\nBeradino supported Barry Goldwater in the 1964 United States presidential election."}
{"id": "715221", "revid": "41101663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715221", "title": "Julian Glover", "text": "Julian Wyatt Glover (born 27 March 1935) is an English actor with many stage, television, and film roles. Classically trained, he is a recipient of the Laurence Olivier Award and has performed many times for the Royal Shakespeare Company.\nGlover's well-known film roles have included playing villains in several major motion picture franchises: General Maximilian Veers in \"The Empire Strikes Back\" (1980), Aristotle Kristatos in \"For Your Eyes Only\" (1981), and Walter Donovan in \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\" (1989). He has also appeared as Brian Harcourt-Smith in \"The Fourth Protocol\" (1987), voiced the giant Acromantula spider Aragog in \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\" (2002), and appeared as conductor Andris Davis in the psychological drama \"T\u00e1r\" (2022).\nGlover has also appeared frequently on television, especially in the UK, including guest appearances in series such as \"The Avengers\", \"The Saint\", \"Thriller\", \"Doctor Who\", \"Blake's 7\", \"\", \"Remington Steele\", and \"Inside No. 9\". He played the recurring supporting role of Grand Maester Pycelle in HBO's \"Game of Thrones\" (2011\u20132016) and appeared as General Beauvilliers in the BBC drama \"Spies of Warsaw\" (2013).\nEarly life.\nGlover was born in Hampstead, London, the son of Honor Ellen Morgan (n\u00e9e Wyatt), a BBC journalist, and Claude Gordon Glover, a BBC radio producer. Glover and Wyatt divorced in the 1940s, after the birth of a daughter, Prue, and Honor Wyatt subsequently married George Ellidge. Julian Glover's younger half-brother is the musician Robert Wyatt.\nGlover attended Bristol Grammar School, where he was in the same class as future actors Timothy West and David Prowse. He also attended Alleyn's School in Dulwich, London. He graduated from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in 1954. He also performed national service in the British Army, where he went on the officers' training course.\nCareer.\nIn the early 1950s, Glover appeared in several shows at Unity Theatre, London, and played Tolen in Ann Jellicoe's \"The Knack\" at the Royal Court Theatre in 1962. He also performed at the Royal Shakespeare Company. He became a regular actor in 1960s and 1970s British television series such as \"The Avengers\", \"The Saint\", \"Strange Report\", \"Doctor Who\", \"Blake's 7\", and \"\".\nIn 1966, Glover played William the Conqueror in \"A Choice of Kings\", then in 1967 featured as Professor Quatermass's nemesis Colonel Breen in the Hammer Films production of \"Quatermass and the Pit\", an adaptation of Nigel Kneale's 1958\u20131959 BBC TV original. He also appeared twice in \"Doctor Who\": as Richard the Lionheart in \"The Crusade\" (1965); and as the villain Scaroth, last of the Jagaroth, in one of the original run's most popular serials, \"City of Death\" (1979). Glover later recorded DVD commentaries for \"The Crusade\" episode \"The Wheel of Fortune\" (from the \"Lost in Time\" set) and for \"City of Death\".\nIn the 1980s, Glover made some of his most notable appearances: the Imperial general Maximilian Veers in \"The Empire Strikes Back\" (1980), the ruthless Greek villain Aristotle Kristatos in the James Bond film \"For Your Eyes Only\" (1981) and the deceptive American Nazi collaborator Walter Donovan in \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\" (1989).\nOn television, he played the leading role of Sir Martin Lacey in the BBC English Civil War drama series \"By the Sword Divided\", and played the guest role of surgeon Arnold Richardson in a 1989 episode of the BBC medical drama \"Casualty\" (he made a second guest appearance as a different character in 2011, and also appeared as a different character again in the sister series \"Holby City\" in 2014). He played a leading role in the British film \"Brash Young Turks\" in 2016.\nIn the 2002 film version of \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\", Glover voiced the giant spider Aragog.\nGlover has been associated with the epic poem \"Beowulf\" since the 1980s and has delivered staged interpretations in various forms, often taking the role of an Anglo-Saxon gleeman or traveller poet, delivering an abridged version of the tale while standing around a mead hall hearth and rendering selected passages in the poem's original Old English. This adaptation has been shown in documentaries on both the English language and Anglo-Saxon England and was also used for historian Michael Wood's documentary on the poem broadcast during the BBC Poetry Season in 2009. He adapted his interpretation in novel form as \"\".\nIn 2009, Glover played the role of Mr. Brownlow in the West End revival of the musical \"Oliver!\" at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. In the short film \"Battle for Britain\" (2010), Glover played a 101-year-old Polish veteran Royal Air Force pilot.\nGlover portrayed the character of Grand Maester Pycelle in the HBO series \"Game of Thrones\" between 2011 and 2016, appearing in a total of 31 episodes across the first six seasons of the show.\nIn 2013, Glover played the role of General Beauvilliers in the BBC Four drama series \"The Spies of Warsaw\". In May 2014, he played the character Joe Goodridge in two episodes of the BBC TV medical drama series \"Holby City\" (\"My Name is Joe\" and \"No Apologies\"). In the same year, he portrayed an old man in horror thriller \"Backtrack\" as well as a theater performance as The Interlocutor in the 2014 West End transfer of the Scottsboro Boys in October.\nIn February 2017, Glover participated as a featured guest at the inaugural Saudi Comic Con in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, alongside fellow Game of Thrones actor Charles Dance.\nIn 2019, Glover played the role of Nonno in the West End theatre production of Tennessee Williams' \"The Night of the Iguana\" at the No\u00ebl Coward Theatre.\nGlover is an associate member of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art.\nAwards.\nIn 1993, Glover was awarded the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role for his title role in the Royal Shakespeare Company's 1992 production of \"Henry IV, Part 1\" and \"Part 2\". Theatre critic Michael Billington called his portrayal of the king in that production \"superb\".\nHonours.\nGlover was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2013 Birthday Honours for services to drama.\nPersonal life.\nGlover has been twice married: to actresses Eileen Atkins and Isla Blair (with whom he has a son, actor Jamie Glover).\nIn 2020, Glover sold 250 lots of photographs, costumes, props and memorabilia from his career at East Bristol Auctions, including his badge of rank from \"The Empire Strikes Back\" and the watch, overcoat and personal script from \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\"."}
{"id": "715223", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715223", "title": "Ventral stream", "text": ""}
{"id": "715224", "revid": "1524034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715224", "title": "Brooke English", "text": "Brooke Allison English (formerly Cudahy, Chandler, and Martin) is a fictional character on the television soap opera \"All My Children\". Originated by Elissa Leeds on March 10, 1976, she was portrayed by Julia Barr from June 1976 to June 1981 and from November 1982 to December 20, 2006. Harriet Hall played the role from June 1981 through March 1982. Barr made a special appearance as Brooke on January 5, 2010, as part of the series' 40th anniversary, and returned on February 23, 2010, for a two-month stint until April 23, 2010. She later returned for the show's final week on ABC on September 16, 2011. She returned as Brooke on the Prospect Park's continuation of \"All My Children\".\nBarr earned eight Daytime Emmy Award nominations for the role, and won twice in 1990 and 1998 for Best Supporting Actress.\nStorylines.\nIn 1976, Brooke English arrived on the doorstep of Phoebe Tyler (Ruth Warrick), her aunt, as a wild teenager who was struggling to find her true love. She moved into the Tyler Mansion and started dating Dan Kennicott (Daren Kelly). She also continued to see her old boyfriend, the dangerous Benny Sago (Vasili Bogazianos). She pitted the two men against each other, and they fought for her affections. She was out of control, so much so that Phoebe nearly shipped her home. Benny had tried to blackmail Phoebe into letting Brooke stay.\nBrooke soon stopped caring about Dan and Benny and fell for Tom Cudahy (Richard Shoberg). He was also being pursued by Erica Kane (Susan Lucci), and the two women's longstanding rivalry was born. Erica managed to win Tom's heart and he married her. Brooke returned to her relationship with Dan, where she was the mistress, as he was seeing Devon Shepherd.\nPhoebe, faking paralysis, caught Dan and Brooke in a compromising situation, and threatened to throw out Brooke again. This was offset when Brooke found out about Phoebe's fake paralysis and blackmailed her into keeping her in the Tyler Mansion. Dan eventually broke up with Devon and wanted to try a relationship with Brooke again.\nBrooke, however, soon started sleeping with Erica's half brother Mark Dalton (Mark LaMura). Mark made it clear that the relationship was only about sex. Dan discovered the relationship and left town. Brooke, still trying to find the right man, began an affair with Eddie Dorrance (Warren Burton), manager of singer Kelly Cole. He later ended up raping her. When he was killed, Brooke learned that was pregnant with his child. She chose to terminate the pregnancy.\nBrooke and Tom began to have an affair, as Tom had separated from Erica. When Erica returned from California as an unsuccessful actress, she convinced Tom to give their marriage another try. Her lies finally caused Tom to divorce her and propose to Brooke. The two married.\nBrooke had slightly grown out of her teenage rebellious phase, and took a job as a reporter. She made the discovery that her mother, Peg English, was the leader of an international drug cartel known as The Cobra. It was yet to be revealed that Brooke was adopted. her father and Phoebe's brother died and Peg was sent to prison. Before she could reveal who Brooke's real mother was, she was killed. This compounded onto the problem of Tom's drinking. He and Erica, Brooke's archrival, had an affair the night before Erica was to marry Adam Chandler (David Canary). This is while Brooke was pregnant with her and Tom's child. Brooke was helped through the pregnancy by Mark, and gave birth to a daughter, Laura Cudahy.\nBrooke had become a rising TV anchorwoman, but ran into problems with this. She exposed a municipal scandal and refused to reveal her source, and was sent to prison. When she got out of prison, there was an assassination attempt on her and Mark's lives at a party. Erica's fianc\u00e9, Mike Roy (Nikolas Surovy), took the bullet instead of Brooke &amp; Mark. Thinking that they were going to die during that ordeal, Mark and Brooke fell in love all over again. After a while, Brooke's busy schedule led to her break up with Mark.\nShe briefly dated Giles St. Clair, a stuntman. But his lifestyle was too wild and interfered with her role as Laura's mother. She also learned that her biological mother was a homeless woman named Jane Dorbin. Brooke tracked her down and the two built a relationship.\nBrooke met one of Erica's exes, the wealthy Adam Chandler (David Canary). The two fell in love. Brooke married Adam quickly. Their happiness was very short-lived when Brooke's beloved daughter, Laura, was killed by a drunk driver. It is an event that stayed with Brooke for the rest of her life, as she continued to mourn the loss of her pride and joy.\nWhen Brooke discovered that she could not bear any more children, Adam began to get anxious to have an heir to the Chandler fortune. He hired Dixie Cooney (Cady McClain), the niece of Palmer Cortlandt (James Mitchell), his bitter business rival, to be a nanny. He began to have an affair with her. She soon gave birth to his son, JR Chandler. The affair cost him his marriage to Brooke. They divorced, and Brooke began to work closely with Dixie's true love, Tad Martin (Michael E. Knight).\nTad and Dixie married after Dixie's brief marriage with Adam ended, but the marriage between Tad and Dixie also soon ended. When Tad and Dixie separated, he and Brooke had a brief affair. Tad was soon \"killed\" on a blown up bridge, fighting with Billy Clyde Tuggle. Soon after, Brooke discovered, much to her surprise, that she was pregnant! She told everyone that her pregnancy was because of artificial insemination to protect Dixie, after Tad had reconciled with her before he \"died\". She then told the citizens of Pine Valley that she was pregnant with his best friend and former husband, Tom Cudahy's child. Tom and Brooke led everyone to believe this which discouraged any thoughts that the baby might be Tad's because Brooke did not want to cause any more pain to Dixie.\nWhile Brooke was pregnant, she began to rely on Jackson Montgomery (Walt Willey), another one of Erica's old flames. The two grew close in friendship. Brooke nearly lost her baby when she and Jack were hit by Arlene Vaughan (Phyllis Lyons), who was driving drunk at the time. Despite having to be cut out of her car, Brooke gave birth to a healthy baby boy, James Edward Martin, whom she called Jamie. Her miracle child has become Brooke's pride and joy, following the death of Laura.\nErica began to figure out a way to win Jack back. She prodded Brooke until Brooke saw that Jack still cared deeply for Erica. Brooke also went public with the fact that Jamie was Tad's son. Brooke continued to raise Jamie. She began to see Edmund Grey (John Callahan), whose hot and cold behaviour left her angry and his obsession with discovering his lineage and birthright strained the ties between them. Brooke experienced a jolt when Tad returned to Pine Valley in 1993. Tad wanted to become a good father to Jamie, and married Brooke.\nOnce again, Tad's love with Dixie would not be denied and they started to have another affair. Tad lied to Brooke about his whereabouts. Edmund knew the truth, and wanting to win back Brooke, he told her about Tad's affair in hopes of breaking up Brooke's marriage. Brooke vowed to stay with Tad. She became pregnant again, but tragedy would strike when it was discovered the pregnancy was ectopic. The termination of the pregnancy was necessary to save Brooke's life. Shortly after, Brooke realized that Tad would never love her the same way he loved Dixie, so she ended their marriage. Brooke continued to have a cordial friendship with Tad, as Tad became Jamie's father. Brooke began to focus on her career and raising her son.\nBrooke was chosen as Pine Valley's Woman of the Year. At the ceremony, Laura Kirk (Lauren E. Roman), a homeless teen, publicly accused Brooke of not doing enough to help the cause of the homeless. Brooke vowed to do more. She began to work closely with Laura, and they developed a bond. Adam wanted Brooke back, but she was still reeling from their previous marriage, which ended when he had an affair with Dixie. She stayed away from him and guarded herself. Adam and Liza Colby put together a scheme for Brooke to return to Adam and for Tad to return to Liza. Brooke realized that she didn't love Adam enough to put up with him.\nBrooke met and fell for Pierce Riley (Greg Wrangler) in 1996. He lived in the woods with Laura and Janet Green (Robin Mattson), an ex-con. When Pierce and Brooke began to date, Janet attempted to steal Brooke's identity as she also had feelings for Pierce. Her scheme didn't work. Brooke also brought Laura to her home and adopted her as her second daughter. However, Brooke wanted to devote more time to Jamie and Laura, so she broke up with Pierce. He left for New Mexico, but returned a few months later. Things began heating up between him and Brooke, and they became engaged.\nBut Pierce was a troubled man who was suffering from disturbing flashbacks that included gunshots and a woman from Pierce's past. He painfully confessed to Brooke that he may have shot the woman in the flashbacks. She urged him to seek help and gave her support while he underwent psychological therapy. Undergoing hypnosis, Pierce remembered that he fell in love with the woman in his flashbacks, Christina, in Central America. They had a daughter named Amelia. He also remembered being forced to shoot either Christina or Amelia by a soldier. The soldier pulled the trigger of the gun in Pierce's hands, shooting Christina. Pierce suffered a breakdown due to the memory, and Brooke vowed to look for Amelia.\nNo one knew that Christina was still alive. She survived the gunshot wounds and spent two decades in a Central American jail. When Brooke began looking for Amelia, the captors released Christina, who headed to Pine Valley under the name \"Diana Martinez\" to tell her story to the world-renowned reporter Brooke English. She didn't know that Brooke was in love with Pierce. When the truth was exposed, Pierce had to choose between Brooke and Christina. Pierce soon left Pine Valley with Christina, devastating Brooke.\nBrooke devoted her time to her work. She was nominated for an award in New York. On the way home to Pine Valley, her plane crashed. Everyone aboard was killed except for Brooke, Edmund, his daughter Maddie Grey and another man. Brooke tried to save the life of Edmund's wife, Maria Santos Grey, but Maria made Brooke save Maddie's life instead. The plane went over the cliff and into the water. Maria's body was never found and was presumed dead, much to Edmund's sadness. While searching for the truth behind the plane crash, she met a man that would help her through the ordeal, as he was the fourth survivor, Jim Thomasen.\nJim had trailed Brooke from New York, because he knew that she was a wealthy woman and had just adopted Laura. Laura and Jim had a past in New York. Jim took pornographic pictures of Laura when she was younger. Laura had posed for the pictures for money to help take care of her sick mother, Terry Kirk. Laura discovered that the photos remained on the Internet.\nBrooke teamed with Jim to find out about why the plane crashed. Jim was with her every step of the way, and they learned that the plane's crash was attributed to faulty turbine blades and that Adam Chandler was behind it.\nSoon after, Laura was kidnapped by a drug addict named Ricky, who had posed in the pictures with Laura. He, unknown to Brooke, was hired by Jim. Brooke would find the pictures thanks to a tip-off and receive a ransom note demanding that the police were not to be notified about Laura's disappearance. She obeyed and told Jim she would drop the money herself. Jim \"saved\" Laura, became a hero in Brooke's eyes. Though she told Brooke that she knew Ricky, the former didn't tell her mother that Jim had been the photographer after declaring a truce with him to keep it a secret between themselves.\nWanting Brooke for herself, Jim told Laura that she should move to Boston where no one would know her. Laura would leave Pine Valley after the New Year's in 1998. Brooke was soon notified that there was new evidence in the plane crash. It was a luggage fragment that contained explosives.\nDespite Jim's warning to leave it alone, Brooke wouldn't let it rest. While in Jim's apartment, she went through his closet trying to find something and stumbled across the same style luggage found in the wreckage. She confronted him, and he explained it with lies. Brooke hired Mateo Santos to do undercover work and find out as much as he could about Jim.\nThe truth about Jim shocked Brooke. She arranged a meeting with him at the Chandler Gallery. She showed him the photos of Laura that he had taken. Jim promised that if she called the police, he would take the same type of photos of Jamie. This drove Brooke over the edge and she took out a gun, shooting Jim several times in the back.\nScared about the murder charges and convinced that she wouldn't win the trial, Brooke went on the run with Jamie. Finally, Tad convinced her to return to Pine Valley and stand trial. Thanks to Tad's secret maneuvering, Brooke was able to get an acquittal of murder. However, the event still haunted Brooke.\nLaura would soon leave Pine Valley to study in China. Brooke began to date Dimitri Marick, again another former love of Erica. Erica succeeded in quickly ending the relationship. After that Brooke began to refocus on her career and raising Jamie.\nIn early 2000, Brooke began working herself to the bone at the community centre. Reverend Eliot Freeman soon found that this was for the guilt she felt about Laura's death years before. It came to the surface when Arlene Vaughan was drunk and crashed her car into a telephone pole that broke through the community centre's wall. Eliot comforted and consulted Brooke about the pain that she was still holding for her daughter's death.\nHowever, Brooke was unaware that Eliot had a secret he was keeping from her, his real identity. Before \"finding God,\" Eliot went by another name, Josh Waleski. He was the man who had killed her daughter. Eliot was eventually forced into telling Brooke that he was the man who had taken her daughter from him. Brooke erupted in a fury and lashed out at Eliot for having lied to her for months. More importantly, Brooke was left to question herself for allowing herself to fall in love with the man who had killed her daughter. Eliot decided to leave town to help Brooke heal. Before Eliot left for good, Brooke finally found a way to forgive Eliot.\nThe next year, Brooke's adopted daughter Laura suffered an Ecstasy overdose. It aggravated a pre-existing heart condition. The only surgeon that could perform the risky operation was Dr. David Hayward, who was in prison. Brooke was helped by of all people, Erica, in order to free David. Laura survived the surgery but still needed a heart transplant.\nThat spring, Brooke begged Leo du Pres to pretend to be interested in the dying Laura in order to give Laura motivation to fight for her life. At first, Leo refused. But he soon grew closer with Laura. He seemed to really care for Laura and wanted to see her fully recover. Laura's condition would soon worsen, and Brooke paid a married couple to donate the heart of their dead nephew.\nOn June 18, 2001, Leo proposed to Laura, and she accepted. They married two days later in her hospital room with Brooke, with friends and hospital staff in attendance. Laura's health continued to worsen and the only way to save her life was for a heart transplant. Laura eventually received a heart transplant from Gillian Andrassy, who died after she was shot. In early 2002, Brooke convinced an unwinding Laura to seek out professional help.\nSoon, Brooke began to suspect that Maria Santos Grey was still alive. She had seen a painting of Wildwind, the estate in Pine Valley that belonged to the Grey family, drawn by a Maureen Gorman. Brooke was convinced that Maureen Gorman was an alive Maria. She and Tad traveled to Nevada to find Maureen. When Brooke saw Maureen and realized it was indeed the long thought dead Maria, she fainted. Later that night, Tad went to find Maria, but saw a different girl and assumed that was who Brooke saw. He tried to convince Brooke that she just \"thought\" she saw Maria.\nBrooke and Edmund finally married. At their wedding, Maddie saw Maria and followed her. She burst into the chapel moments later, announcing that she had been with her mother. This was just after the marriage ceremony was complete and Brooke and Edmund were officially married. Brooke finally admitted that she knew Maria was really alive, causing Edmund to find Maria. Their marriage was annulled, but Brooke continued to help Edmund reunite with Maria.\nFollowing this, Brooke began an affair with Adam Chandler. Brooke told Adam that she would only continue the affair if it remained a secret. But soon Brooke realized that others knew about it, and she quickly ended the relationship.\nBrooke began to rebuild her friendship with Edmund, after all of her deception. But she also began to worry about Jamie. Unknown to anyone, Jamie had slept with newcomer Babe Carey, the night before it was announced that Babe had married Jamie's former stepbrother JR (Adam Jr.) in San Diego weeks before. Both had been drunk, but Babe still took Jamie's virginity. Babe soon became pregnant, and Brooke worried that Jamie might be the father.\nWhen it was revealed that the father of Babe's daughter, Bess, was indeed JR and not Jamie, Brooke was relieved. However, it was then figured out that Bess was really Miranda Montgomery, the newborn daughter of Bianca.\nBrooke's world was rocked when Edmund was killed in the Wildwind barn one night. Brooke had to tell Maria that she was the executor of Edmund's estate, and had more control over Maria's children and the Wildwind estate than Maria. The two women remained at odds, until they found a way to co-exist for the sake of Maria's children.\nWhen her Aunt Phoebe died, Brooke was inconsolable. She soon found out that Phoebe had left everything to Jamie provided he dumped Babe. Jamie had a tough time letting go of Babe but eventually did. Jamie would later start a relationship with the recently returned Amanda Dillon, but after Amanda's unstable mother Janet wreaked havoc on Pine Valley, Brooke welcomed a devastated Amanda into her home as if she were her daughter.\nEventually, Jamie and Amanda stopped seeing each other. Over the last couple of months in Pine Valley, Brooke remained in the background, focusing on raising Jamie and Amanda. She also became a stepping stone in the renewed relationship of Erica and Jack. While the two were separated, Erica invited her first husband Jeff Martin to Thanksgiving dinner, while Jack invited her bitter rival, Brooke. Brooke quickly realized that Jack didn't love her like Erica. Quietly, Brooke left Pine Valley at the tail end of 2006. However, Brooke reappeared in the \"All My Children\" 40th anniversary special four years later and on February 23, 2010, she returned until departing again exactly two months later. In that short period of time, Brooke and her ex-husband Adam Chandler went off into the sunset together in a particularly romantic happy ending.\nIn 2006, Barr was taken off contract and was asked to remain with the show on a recurring basis, but she declined the offer. The producers then decided not to recast the role after her departure. For many years prior, Brooke had floundered in the background. Her last major story was her interrupted marriage to Edmund Grey which occurred in 2002. Despite 30 years of service to \"All My Children\", at that time neither Barr nor Brooke received any formal farewell; the character simply vanished, and was then mentioned only infrequently. When she left, Barr said, \"I am so proud to have been a part of a show that was once a television icon.\"\nBarr eventually returned in 2010, first with the \"All My Children\" 40th anniversary special in January, and then for a two-month stint from February to April during which time Brooke takes over as editor-in-chief of \"Tempo\", is involved in a terrible car accident, and falls in love, all of which culminate with Brooke and her former husband Adam Chandler, reuniting and officially leaving town together.\nAdam and Brooke returned to Pine Valley for the final episodes of the series in September 2011. They initially return to help a very troubled JR. Still a couple, Brooke is there with Adam when he discovers Stuart is alive and purchases the Chandler Mansion as a present for Adam with the inheritance money from her Aunt Phoebe after it is sold away from the family. The final scenes of the show take place in the Chandler mansion on September 23, 2011, during which Adam proposes to Brooke and she accepts.\nBrooke is the first character to be seen in the reboot of the show. Adam re-proposes to Brooke, claiming she is the only woman he has ever truly loved, and she then accepts his proposal. She and Adam are the guardians of Adam's grandson, AJ Chandler as his dad, JR has been in a coma for five years. She has an assistant, Celia Fitzgerald, who volunteers with her at the Miranda Center. Brooke also agrees to take over as Head of Chandler Enterprises, because Adam is travelling so much and spends much of her time helping Adam to rebuild the company that JR ruined before he was shot."}
{"id": "715225", "revid": "37840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715225", "title": "Mod-n cryptanalysis", "text": ""}
{"id": "715227", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715227", "title": "Schutzgebiete", "text": ""}
{"id": "715228", "revid": "1412854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715228", "title": "Robin Strasser", "text": "Robin Victory in Europe Strasser (born May 7, 1945) is an American actress, best known for her role as Dorian Lord on the ABC daytime soap opera \"One Life to Live\".\nLife and career.\nStrasser's middle name is a tribute to her being born the day Germany surrendered in World War II. She was born in the New York City borough of the Bronx and raised in Manhattan by Martin and Anne Strasser, both Jewish. After graduating from the High School of Performing Arts, on full scholarship, she attended the Yale University School of Drama. She began acting in the early 1960s. Strasser sharpened her acting abilities in theatre, acting on Broadway, where she appeared in \"The Shadow Box\" and \"Chapter Two\". Early in her stage career she met her first husband, Laurence Luckinbill; they were married in 1965 and divorced in 1976. They have two sons, Nicholas and Ben. Strasser was also married to Richard Hogan from August 27, 1983, until 1985.\nShe is a founding member of the American Conservatory Theater, and began her extensive daytime career in 1964. Her first role was as Iris on \"The Secret Storm\". In 1967, she originated the role of Rachel Davis Matthews on NBC's \"Another World\". After leaving the role of Rachel, Strasser played Dr. Christina Karras Martin on \"All My Children.\"\nStrasser was offered the role of Cathy Craig on \"One Life to Live\", but ended up joining the show as Dorian Lord in 1979, when Claire Malis left the role. Strasser had four stints as Dorian, leaving the show in 1987 and returning to play Dorian again from 1993 to 2000, 2003 to August 25, 2011, and then again in the online revival of the series in 2013. From 2001 to 2002, she appeared as 300-year-old witch Hecuba on the NBC serial \"Passions\". In 2019 she played Vivian Alamain on \"Days of Our Lives\" for 15 episodes.\nStrasser won a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Actress in a Daytime Drama Series in 1982 for her portrayal of Dorian, and was also nominated for the award in 1981, 1983, and 1985. Strasser has been nominated for \"Soap Opera Digest\" Awards for Dorian in various categories in 1986, 1988, 1994, 1995 and 2005, winning in 1996 (\"Outstanding Lead Actress\" for Dorian) and 2001 (\"Outstanding Female Scene Stealer\" for Hecuba).\nStrasser was an Honorary Chair of the Imperial Court of New York's Annual Charity Coronation Ball, \"Night of A Thousand Gowns,\" on March 21, 2009. She was previously made a Dame of the Imperial Court of New York in March 2007, and attended the 2008 \"Night of A Thousand Gowns.\""}
{"id": "715233", "revid": "94904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715233", "title": "U.S. Insular area", "text": ""}
{"id": "715238", "revid": "40916907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715238", "title": "Richard Courant", "text": "Richard Courant (January 8, 1888 \u2013 January 27, 1972) was a German-American mathematician. He is best known by the general public for the book \"What is Mathematics?\", co-written with Herbert Robbins. His research focused on the areas of real analysis, mathematical physics, the calculus of variations and partial differential equations. He wrote textbooks widely used by generations of students of physics and mathematics. He is also known for founding the institute now bearing his name.\nLife and career.\nCourant was born in Lublinitz, in the Prussian Province of Silesia (now in Poland). His parents were Siegmund Courant and Martha Freund of Oels. Edith Stein was Richard's cousin on the maternal side. During his youth his parents moved often, including to Glatz, then to Breslau and in 1905 to Berlin. He stayed in Breslau and entered the university there, then continued his studies at the University of Z\u00fcrich and the University of G\u00f6ttingen. He became David Hilbert's assistant in G\u00f6ttingen and obtained his doctorate there in 1910. He was obliged to serve in World War I, but was wounded shortly after enlisting and therefore dismissed from the military. Courant left the University of M\u00fcnster in 1921 to take over Erich Heckes position at the University of G\u00f6ttingen. There he founded the Mathematical Institute, which he headed as director from 1928 until 1933.\nCourant left Germany in 1933, earlier than many Jewish escapees. He did not lose his position due to being Jewish, as his previous service as a front-line soldier exempted him; however, his public membership in the social-democratic left was reason enough (for the Nazis) for dismissal.\nIn 1936, after one year at Cambridge, Courant accepted a professorship at New York University in New York City. There he founded an institute for graduate studies in applied mathematics. The Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences (as it was renamed in 1964) is now one of the most respected research centers in applied mathematics.\nCourant and David Hilbert authored the influential textbook \"Methoden der mathematischen Physik\", which, with its revised editions, is still current and widely used since its publication in 1924. With Herbert Robbins he coauthored a popular overview of higher mathematics, intended for the general public, titled \"What is Mathematics?\". With Fritz John he also coauthored the two-volume work \"Introduction to Calculus and Analysis,\" first published in 1965.\nCourant's name is also attached to the finite element method, with his numerical treatment of the plain torsion problem for multiply-connected domains, published in 1943.\nThis method is now one of the ways to solve partial differential equations numerically. Courant is a namesake of the Courant\u2013Friedrichs\u2013Lewy condition and the Courant minimax principle.\nCourant was an elected member of both the American Philosophical Society (1953) and the United States National Academy of Sciences (1955). In 1965, the Mathematical Association of America recognized his contributions to Mathematics with their Award for Distinguished Service to Mathematics.\nCourant died of a stroke in New Rochelle, New York on January 27, 1972, aged 84.\nPerspective on mathematics.\nCommenting upon his analysis of experimental results from in-laboratory soap film formations, Courant explained why the existence of a physical solution does not obviate mathematical proof. Here is a quote from Courant on his mathematical perspective:\nPersonal life.\nIn 1912, Courant married Nelly Neumann, who had earned her doctorate at Breslau in synthetic geometry in 1909. They lived together in G\u00f6ttingen until they were divorced in 1916. She was later murdered by the Nazis in 1942 for being Jewish.\nIn 1919, Courant married Nerina (Nina) Runge (1891\u20131991), a daughter of the G\u00f6ttingen professor for Applied Mathematics, Carl Runge (of Runge\u2013Kutta fame).\nRichard and Nerina had four children: Ernest (1920\u20132020), a particle physicist and innovator in particle accelerators; Gertrude (1922\u20132014), a biologist and wife of the mathematician J\u00fcrgen Moser (1928\u20131999); Hans (1924-2019), a physicist who participated in the Manhattan Project; and Leonore (known as \"Lori,\" 1928\u20132015), a professional violist and wife of the mathematician Jerome Berkowitz (1928\u20131998) and subsequently wife of mathematician Peter Lax until her death."}
{"id": "715240", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715240", "title": "Croatia national football team", "text": "The Croatia national football team () represents Croatia in men's international football matches. It is governed by the Croatian Football Federation (HNS), the governing body for football in Croatia. It is a member of UEFA in Europe and FIFA in global competition. The team's colours reference two national symbols: the Croatian checkerboard and the country's tricolour. They are colloquially known as the (Blazers) and the (Checkered Ones). \nSince 2000, the have qualified for every major tournament except UEFA Euro 2000 and the 2010 FIFA World Cup. At the World Cup, Croatia has finished second once (2018) and third on two occasions (1998, 2022), securing three World Cup medals. Davor \u0160uker won the Golden Shoe and the Silver Ball in 1998, while Luka Modri\u0107 won the Golden Ball in 2018 and the Bronze Ball in 2022. The team has reached the quarter-finals of the UEFA European Championship twice (1996, 2008). They finished second in the UEFA Nations League in 2023. \nUpon its admission into FIFA in 1994, ranked 125th, they ascended to third place with their debut 1998 World Cup campaign, making them the youngest team to reach a top 10 place in the World Ranking.\nHistory.\nOfficial formation.\nVarious unofficial sides delineated the early history of Croatian football as Croatia was not an independent entity until the late 20th century. Hugo Kinert first managed an unofficial side that played international matches in 1918\u201319. In 1940, Jozo Jakopi\u0107 led the national side representing the Yugoslav Banovina of Croatia in four friendly matches. Croatia's first official international match was a 4\u20130 win over Switzerland in their capital city, Zagreb, on 2 April 1940. Following the 1941 Axis invasion of Yugoslavia, Germany and Italy took control of Croatia, forming the Independent State of Croatia and installing Rudolf Hitrec as an unofficial manager for two years. The side played 15 friendly matches from its re-activation in FIFA in 1941 until the end of World War II. In 1945, Croatia returned to Yugoslavia as the People's Republic of Croatia with sides active until 1956. During the nation's pre-independence, Croat footballers played for Yugoslavia at the Summer Olympics, the FIFA World Cup, and the UEFA European Championship from 1956 to 1990.\nCroatia debuted their modern checkered jersey against the United States on 17 October 1990, winning 2\u20131. Caretaker manager Dra\u017ean Jerkovi\u0107, led the \"de facto\" national side before their formal re-admission into FIFA on 3 July 1992, winning two more friendly games against Romania in December 1990 and Slovenia in June 1991. Stanko Poklepovi\u0107 took over team management and led them on an exhibition tour against Australia, before he was succeeded by Vlatko Markovi\u0107 in April 1993. Croatia gained admission into UEFA in June 1993, three months after qualification for the 1994 World Cup started, missing their window to enter the competition. After winning a match against Ukraine in June 1993, Markovi\u0107 was succeeded by Miroslav Bla\u017eevi\u0107 in March 1994.\nBla\u017eevi\u0107 period (1994\u20131999).\nAfter the independence of Croatia, the newly formed Croatia entered the FIFA World Rankings in 125th place in March 1994. Bla\u017eevi\u0107 launched Croatia's qualifying campaign for Euro 1996 with a 2\u20130 win over Estonia on 4 September 1994 and a 1\u20130 away loss to Ukraine on 1 June 1995, their first competitive win and loss. After finishing first in qualifying, the team halved their spot in the World Ranking, ascending to number 62, winning FIFA's 1994 Best Mover of the Year in December 1994. In the Euro 1996 group stage, Goran Vlaovi\u0107 scored the team's first goal at a tournament, a late strike to win 1\u20130 against Turkey. Croatia then beat reigning champions Denmark 3\u20130, later losing to Portugal by the same scoreline. The team advanced to the knockout stage and were beaten in the quarter-finals 1\u20132 by Germany. Croatia's qualifying campaign from 1998 to 1999 for Euro 2000 was unsuccessful as they finished third in their group behind FR Yugoslavia and the Republic of Ireland. Both fixtures against Yugoslavia ended in draws which prevented Croatia from qualifying by one point.\nCroatia began their qualification campaign for the 1998 World Cup with an aggregate victory against Ukraine in the two-legged playoff. In the group stage, Croatia beat both Jamaica and Japan, later losing to Argentina to advance with them to the knockout stage. A 1\u20130 victory over Romania moved the Croatians to the quarter-finals against Germany. Croatia beat the Germans 3\u20130 with goals from Robert Jarni, Goran Vlaovi\u0107 and Davor \u0160uker, all after Christian W\u00f6rns had been sent off. They advanced to their first semi-final against hosts France. After a goalless first-half, Croatia led after Aljo\u0161a Asanovi\u0107 pushed past Zinedine Zidane to cross a ball downfield to \u0160uker who scored after a one-on-one with goalkeeper Fabien Barthez. France's defender Lilian Thuram equalized quickly after, and scored another goal later in the game to beat Croatia 2\u20131. In the third place match, Croatia prevailed against the Netherlands 2\u20131 to secure bronze and claim their first World Cup medal. \u0160uker won the Golden Shoe for scoring the most goals in the World Cup: six goals in seven games. The Croatians' performance during the late-1990s propelled them to rank third place in the FIFA World Ranking in January 1999. The team of the 1990s was dubbed the \"golden generation\" for their contributions to Croatia's ascension in international football.\nJozi\u0107, Bari\u0107 and Kranj\u010dar period (2000\u20132006).\nCroatia started their qualifying campaign for the 2002 World Cup with draws against Belgium and Scotland prompting Bla\u017eevi\u0107's resignation as head coach in October 2000. His successor, Mirko Jozi\u0107, pushed the team through the rest of qualifiers undefeated. In the group stage, Croatia narrowly lost to Mexico before beating Italy 2\u20131 and sustaining a 1\u20130 loss to Ecuador. The team was eliminated by one point, leading to the resignation of Jozi\u0107 and succession of Otto Bari\u0107 in July 2002, their first manager born outside of Southeast Europe. During Bari\u0107's tenure, most of the remaining players from the \"golden generation\" squad were gradually replaced by younger players over the course of qualifying for Euro 2004. Croatia qualified in a playoff victory against Slovenia, winning 2\u20131 on aggregate after Dado Pr\u0161o's decisive late goal in the second leg. The team was eliminated at the group stage after drawing 0\u20130 with Switzerland and 2\u20132 with France, and losing 2\u20134 to England. Bari\u0107 departed after his two-year contract expired in June 2004. Prior to launching the team's qualification for the 2006 World Cup, Zlatko Kranj\u010dar succeed in July 2004. Croatia qualified undefeated, finishing top of the group ahead of Sweden and Bulgaria. In the group stage, Croatia lost their opening match against Brazil and drew 0\u20130 with Japan after Darijo Srna missed a first-half penalty. A 2\u20132 draw with Australia in which three players were sent off confirmed Croatia's elimination.\nBili\u0107 period (2006\u20132012).\nIn July 2006, Kranj\u010dar was replaced by Slaven Bili\u0107, who introduced newer, younger players into the squad and concluded qualifying undefeated. His first match resulted in a 2\u20130 victory against reigning world champions Italy during an international friendly. Croatia lost once to Macedonia and defeated England twice, resulting in their failure to qualify for the first time since 1984. Eduardo da Silva, the team's top goalscorer during qualifying, suffered an injury while playing for his club, Arsenal, leading to a reshuffle in the finals squad with less experienced players. Croatia finished their play in Group B undefeated, with a 1\u20130 win over co-hosts Austria, a 2\u20131 victory against Germany, and a 1\u20130 win over Poland. The team achieved the maximum group stage points possible (nine) for the first time in their Euros history. Niko Kova\u010d and Dario \u0160imi\u0107 served as captains during the group and knockout stages, respectively. Croatia pushed Turkey to a penalty shoot-out in the quarter-finals, in which the Turkish side prevailed in an upset where Luka Modri\u0107, Mladen Petri\u0107, and Ivan Rakiti\u0107 all missed their penalties. Croatia set multiple Euro records: fewest goals conceded (2), fewest games lost (0), and earliest goal scored.\nBili\u0107 renewed his contract in April 2008, before the qualifying campaign for the 2010 World Cup. Croatia won 3\u20130 against Kazakhstan, before enduring a 4\u20131 loss to England at Stadion Maksimir, their first home loss in 14 years. The team drew 0\u20130 with Ukraine and beat Andorra twice, drawing again with Ukraine and beating Belarus twice. In the final stretch of the qualifiers, England delivered Croatia's then-heaviest loss, a 5\u20131 scoreline, at Wembley Stadium. The team had several injuries during qualifying and were ultimately eliminated on points, as Ukraine defeated both England and Andorra to advance in the group.\nCroatia was a candidate to co-host Euro 2012 with Hungary which would have resulted in automatic qualification for both countries; UEFA ultimately selected Poland and Ukraine. The Croatians began their qualifying campaign for Euro 2012 with a 3\u20130 win over Latvia, a goalless draw with Greece, and a 2\u20131 win against Israel. In the qualifying playoff against Turkey, the team won 3\u20130 on aggregate. They were grouped with the Republic of Ireland, Italy and defending champions Spain, opening with a 3\u20131 victory over the Irish. Croatia drew with Italy 1\u20131 in a match marred by disruptive fans and controversial refereeing from English official Howard Webb. Spain knocked out the side in a 0\u20131 loss, which, along with 1\u20131 rematch with Italy, had Croatia eliminated. Bili\u0107 retired before Euro 2012, with the Croatians continuously ranked among the top ten teams in the world during his tenure \u2013 2007 to 2012.\n\u0160timac, Kova\u010d and \u010ca\u010di\u0107 period (2012\u20132017).\nSucceeding Bili\u0107, former player Igor \u0160timac was appointed manager. At the same time, Davor \u0160uker assumed the presidency of the Croatian Football Federation in 2012 after the death of Vlatko Markovi\u0107. A year in, \u0160timac was replaced by former captain Niko Kova\u010d. Kova\u010d led the team to a 2\u20130 aggregate victory over Iceland in the qualifying playoffs for the 2014 World Cup with both goals coming in the home leg in Zagreb. In the group stage, Croatia opened their campaign with a 3\u20131 loss to hosts Brazil. The match garnered media attention for controversial refereeing from Yuichi Nishimura which was scrutinized for a number of decisions. In their second match, Croatia won 4\u20130 against Cameroon then lost 3\u20131 to Mexico, finishing third in the group and missing the knockout stage.\nDuring the qualifying campaign of Euro 2016, Croatia drew with Azerbaijan and lost to Norway, leading to Kova\u010d's replacement with Ante \u010ca\u010di\u0107. The team broke their record for most goals scored in a match with a friendly 10\u20130 win over San Marino in June 2016. They topped the group stage of that year's Euros, advancing with defending champions Spain. Croatia prevailed over Turkey 1\u20130 with a long-range volley goal from Luka Modri\u0107, before drawing 2\u20132 against the Czech Republic. In the latter match, Croatia led with goals from Ivan Peri\u0161i\u0107 and Ivan Rakiti\u0107, while opposing Czech striker Milan \u0160koda and a last-minute penalty from Tom\u00e1\u0161 Necid drew the match. There was severe crowd trouble and on-field flares in the game's last minutes with a steward injured by a stray firework. Croatia then defeated Spain 2\u20131, confirming the Spaniards' first defeat at a Euro finals match since 2004. The Croatians were tipped as one of the tournament favourites as they entered the knockout stage with Portugal. The Portuguese prevailed 1\u20130 with Ricardo Quaresma's winning goal in the 117th minute after Peri\u0161i\u0107 hit the post with a header in the previous attack. Following the campaign, Darijo Srna announced his retirement and the succession of Modri\u0107 as team captain in August 2016.\nDali\u0107 period (since 2017).\nCroatia qualified for the 2018 World Cup undefeated for their first five matches. Two defeats to Iceland and Turkey, as well as a draw against Finland, led to a public outcry that ousted manager \u010ca\u010di\u0107. He was replaced by Zlatko Dali\u0107, who formally qualified the team with a 2\u20130 win against Ukraine, and a 4\u20131 win with Greece, on aggregate, during a playoff round in the first leg in Zagreb. The 2017\u201318 squad was known as Croatia's second \"golden generation\", referencing their 1998 counterparts, during the side's World Cup campaign that year. They topped their group with a 2\u20130 victory over Nigeria, a 3\u20130 win over Argentina, and a 2\u20131 win against Iceland \u2013 their best-ever group stage performance.\nDuring the knockout stage, they beat Denmark in a penalty shoot-out for the first time after goalkeeper Danijel Suba\u0161i\u0107 saved three penalties, equalling the record for most penalties saved in a shoot-out. In the quarter-finals, Croatia drew 2\u20132 with hosts Russia, becoming the first team since 1990 to win two consecutive penalty shoot-outs. Playing England in the semi-finals, Croatia equalized to force their third consecutive extra time, matching the tournament record. Mario Mand\u017euki\u0107 and Peri\u0161i\u0107 scored as Croatia won 2\u20131 making them the second-smallest country by population (after Uruguay) and land area (after the Netherlands) to reach a World Cup final. In the final they lost to France 4\u20132, finishing in second place and securing the silver medal. The match was controversial for its refereeing. The team was welcomed by an estimated half a million people at their homecoming in Zagreb.\nThe team entered the Nations League's inaugural 2018\u201319 edition in League A, along with England and Spain in January 2018. Croatia lost 6\u20130 away to Spain in their first game, the side's record loss in a match. Croatia drew 0\u20130 home with England, played behind closed doors due to UEFA sanctions. In a rematch with the Spanish, Croatia won 3\u20132 with a goal in stoppage time, followed by a 2\u20131 away defeat to England. Croatia were set to be relegated to League B until a tournament rule change retained them in League A, grouping them with Portugal, France and Sweden in the 2020\u201321 tournament. Croatia lost to France and Portugal, but a victory against Sweden was sufficient to avoid relegation.\nThe team topped their group for the qualifying campaign of Euro 2020, with a loss to Hungary, and draws against Azerbaijan and Wales. The 2020 finals were delayed to the summer of 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Overall, winning only two out of eight games in 2020, Croatia achieved their worst-ever aggregate win-rate. Croatia finished second in their Euros group, with a 1\u20130 loss to England, a 1\u20131 draw with the Czech Republic and a 3\u20131 win over Scotland. They advanced to the round of 16, where they lost to Spain 5\u20133 after extra time. The loss to Spain led to heightened criticism against Dali\u0107 and the team by the Croatian public, a faction of whom called for resignations. Dali\u0107 refreshed the team roster by introducing younger debutants for the remainder of World Cup qualifying in 2021.\nCroatia qualified for the 2022 World Cup with seven wins, two draws and one loss. The team advanced from group stage after a 0\u20130 draw with Morocco, a 4\u20131 win against Canada, and finished ahead of Belgium by a single point after drawing 0\u20130. They won against Japan in a penalty shootout in the round of 16 where Dominik Livakovi\u0107 saved three of four Japanese penalties, equalling a record held by Ricardo and Danijel Suba\u0161i\u0107. Croatia similarly beat Brazil during the quarter-finals in an upset victory on penalties, having come from behind to draw 1\u20131 in the final minutes of extra time. In the semi-final match, Croatia sustained their heaviest World Cup defeat, 3\u20130 against Argentina. They prevailed 2\u20131 over Morocco in the third place playoff, securing their second bronze medal.\nThe team topped their group in the 2023 Nations League, knocking out reigning champions France by winning 1\u20130 on a penalty \u2013 their first-ever win against the French. Croatia beat the Netherlands 4\u20132 in the semi-finals, advancing to their first Nations League final, against Spain. After drawing the Spanish 0\u20130 in extra time, the team lost the penalty shootout 4\u20135, finishing the tournament in second place. Croatia finished second in qualifying for Euro 2024, being drawn into a \"group of death\" with Spain, Italy, and Albania. After a 3\u20130 loss to Spain, they drew 2\u20132 with Albania and 1\u20131 with Italy. The Italians eliminated Croatia from advancing to the knockout stage, on points, with a 98th minute stoppage-time goal from striker Mattia Zaccagni.\nTeam image.\nKits.\nCroatia's modern-day team jersey was created in 1990 by Miroslav \u0160utej, who also designed the current coat of arms of Croatia, which also features in the Croatian national flag. The red-and-white motif is based on the Croatian checkerboard (). The typical kit color-way features red-and-white checkered shirts, white shorts and blue socks to match the Croatian tricolor (\"Trobojnica).\" There have been variants made by the kit manufacturers since the original release; the jersey design has remained consistent throughout the years and has served as a blueprint for other Croatian national sports teams and entities.\nThe away kits used by the team have for a period been all-blue, incorporating the red-and-white checkers as a trim. Croatia has used darker colored away kits such as the dark navy-and-black checkered design that featured prominently in the 2018 World Cup. The \"Vatreni\" have often been required to use their darker away kits even when playing at home because their opponents have red-and-white color schemes that clash with the chequers of Croatia.\nSupporters.\nThe team has developed an extensive fan base since the 1990s. Following their debut run at the 1998 World Cup, there was a rise in domestic and global attention for the side. Political scientist Alex J. Bellamy observed in 2003 that the national team became a symbol of statehood in Croatia after their independence through the cultural export of football. The government's influence on team affairs eased substantially after the death of President Franjo Tu\u0111man in 1999. All matches are followed and televised throughout the country, particularly during major tournaments. In November 2022, the Ministry of Science and Education issued guidance to let school children watch matches during the school day as long coursework is made up later. Following the 2018 World Cup, the Croatian Cabinet attended ministerial meetings in team jerseys, and during the 2022 World Cup, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovi\u0107 delivered a hurried speech \"[lasting] only 37 seconds\" at the Euro-Mediterranean Summit to catch the quarter-finals.\nThe Croatian Football Federation endorses an official fan club for the team, known as (\"Always Faithful\"). A part of the team's support consists of fans of Dinamo Zagreb and Hajduk Split, the two largest clubs in Croatia's top domestic football league, the (HNL). Both sets of fans\u2014Bad Blue Boys from Zagreb and Torcida from Split\u2014have been associated with hooliganism due to their ultra-style support. Regional support for the team also comes from Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly from fans of domestic clubs Zrinjski Mostar and \u0160iroki Brijeg. The diaspora of Croatians across the United States, Canada, Australia, and South America contribute to the majority of the side's international support. It is customary among supporters to include an inscription of their city of origin onto the Croatian flag. Fans also coordinate their vocal support and orchestrate chants during matches. One section may shout \" (\"To battle, to battle\") with another responding \"\" (\"For our people\"). In addition to chants, the team regularly have songs dedicated to them, such as Slaven Bili\u0107's \"\" (\"Fiery Madness\") which topped Croatian music charts during Euro 2008.\nThe disruptive behaviour of supporters during matches, particularly those exhibiting ultra-style fandom, has complicated national team affairs. Hooliganism, rioting, vandalism, littering, violence, use of pyrotechnics and discriminatory political expression have led to sanctions both domestically and internationally. The team has been emblematic of Croatian nationalism since the early-1990s independence of Croatia. The football federation, government, and players have made material efforts to prevent unwanted incidents to avoid damage to the perception of the team and Croatian people. This has included banning their own fans from certain games. The behaviour of fans has led to penalties and fines for the national team imposed by FIFA and UEFA. The Croatian Football Federation has been assessed significant disciplinary fines and penalties since the early 2000s. In addition to monetary fines, the team has faced tournament point deductions and have had their supporters banned. There have also been multiple acts of protest against the national team, in response to allegations of corruption.\nCharity.\nTo advance the team's charitable efforts, manager Slaven Bili\u0107 established the \"Vatreno Srce\" (Fiery Heart) Foundation in 2010. The primary cause of the foundation is helping children. As of 2012, the foundation made fifty donations of 1,200,000 HRK to various children's organizations. In December 2012, the foundation made 500,000 HRK on an auction of Niko Kranj\u010dar's shirt and Lionel Messi's shirt that was signed by all FC Barcelona players. The auction was organised in the Esplanade Zagreb Hotel and attended by President of Croatia Ivo Josipovi\u0107. In November 2018, the players gathered in The Westin Hotel in Zagreb to answer fans' phonecalls, the proceeds of which were donated to the Vatreno Srce Foundation. In 2018, the foundation financed Children's Hospital Zagreb and \"Korak u \u017divot\" (A Step Into Life), a charity that helps young children raised in orphanages transition into higher education. In November 2019, more than 500,000 HRK was collected in another call event that were then directed to Children's Hospital Kantrida. In March 2020, the players collectively donated 4.2 million HRK to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and for repair of damage caused by the 2020 Zagreb earthquake. Members of national team visit and help children with special needs and their education institutions.\nStadiums.\nThe national team has played in thirteen stadiums around the country. The majority of Croatia's home matches take place at Stadion Maksimir in Zagreb, the country's largest football stadium, which is also the home-ground of local football club Dinamo Zagreb. The Croatian Football Federation previously agreed on extensive plans with the government to renovate the stadium and increase its forty-thousand seating capacity, the proposal was eventually rejected by Mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandi\u0107 in 2008 due to construction costs. Home matches are occasionally played at other, smaller venues around the country. Stadion Poljud in Split has hosted some qualifying fixtures since 1995. Between 1995 and 2011, Croatia never won a competitive match at Poljud, which the local media dubbed \"Poljudsko prokletsvo\" (\"the Poljud curse\"). Qualifying fixtures have also been played at Stadion Kantrida in Rijeka along with Stadion Gradski Vrt in Osijek and Stadion Varteks in Vara\u017edin.\nResults and fixtures.\nThe following is a list of match results in the last 12 months, as well as any future matches that have been scheduled.\nManagement.\nManager history.\nThe following table provides a summary of the complete record of each Croatia manager's results in the FIFA World Cup and the UEFA European Championship.\nPlayers.\nCurrent squad.\nThe following players were called up for the 2026 FIFA World Cup qualification matches against the Faroe Islands and Montenegro on 14 and 17 November 2025, respectively.\nRecent call-ups.\nThe following players have also been called up to the squad in the last twelve months.\nIndividual statistics.\nMost appearances.\nSurpassing Robert Jarni's previous record of 81 appearances, Dario \u0160imi\u0107 was the first player to reach 100 appearances, doing so before his retirement in 2008. Darijo Srna, Josip \u0160imuni\u0107 and Stipe Pletikosa collectively reached their 100th cap in February 2013. Srna was the most capped player from 2016 to 2021, with 134 appearances. He was surpassed by Luka Modri\u0107 in 2021.\nThe youngest player to play for Croatia is Alen Halilovi\u0107 (aged ), while the oldest is Luka Modri\u0107 ().\nTop goalscorers.\nDavor \u0160uker is Croatia's highest goalscorer with a record 45 international goals from 1991 to 2002.\nThe team's youngest goalscorer is Luka Ivanu\u0161ec (aged ).\nCompetitive record.\n Champions\u00a0\u00a0 Runners-up\u00a0\u00a0 Third place\u00a0\u00a0 Fourth place\u00a0\u00a0Tournament played fully or partially on home soil\u00a0\u00a0\nHead-to-head record.\n&lt;section begin=head-to-head /&gt;\nFIFA ranking history.\nThe following is a chart of yearly averages of Croatia's FIFA World Ranking. Upon admission to FIFA in 1994, Croatia entered the World Ranking at 125th. Their debut World Cup campaign, during 1998, propelled Croatia to third place after the tournament, marking the fastest ascension in FIFA ranking history. It hit a then-record Elo rating of 2,006 points in July 1998 and maintained third place until February 1999. The national team recorded its highest Elo rating in June 2023 with 2,012 points. With an average Elo rating of 1,877 points, Croatia maintains the sixth-highest average rating in the world. They are one of three teams\u2014along with Colombia and France\u2014to be named FIFA Best Mover of the Year more than once, winning the award in 1994 and 1998."}
{"id": "715243", "revid": "1313798904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715243", "title": "Grandson (disambiguation)", "text": "A grandson is the son of one's child.\nGrandson may also refer to:"}
{"id": "715245", "revid": "7436027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715245", "title": "Let's get ready to rumble!", "text": ""}
{"id": "715246", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715246", "title": "Pat Saiki", "text": "Patricia Hatsue Saiki (\"n\u00e9e\" Fukuda; born May 28, 1930) is an American politician and former educator from Hilo, Hawaii. A member of the Republican Party, she served as a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1987 to 1991 and then as Administrator of the Small Business Administration under President of the United States George H. W. Bush.\nEarly life.\nSaiki was born in Hilo, Hawaii, on May 28, 1930. Saiki graduated from Hilo High School in 1948 and received her bachelor's degree from the University of Hawai\u02bbi at M\u0101noa in 1952. Upon graduating from college, Saiki became a teacher at Punahou, Kaimuki Intermediate, and Kalani High schools. She also taught in Toledo, Ohio, when she and her husband, Stanley Saiki, moved there for his medical school residency.\nSaiki ran for office after establishing the teacher's chapter of the Hawaii Government Employees Association. Her fellow teachers encouraged her to run for office, which she did in 1968.\nPolitical career.\nIn 1968, Saiki joined the Hawai`i Republican Party and ran successfully for a seat in the Hawaii State House of Representatives. In 1974, she moved to the Hawaii State Senate where she served her district until 1982. A vacancy was created by U.S. Rep. Cecil Heftel's untimely resignation from Congress, and on September 20, 1986, a special election was held. Saiki lost the special election (to Democrat Neil Abercrombie) but won a separate election (over Democrat Mufi Hannemann) sending her to Congress where she served two consecutive terms. With her election in 1986, she became the first Republican elected to represent Hawaii in the House of Representatives since its statehood. In 1988, she beat challenger Mary Bitterman, a Democrat and former head of Voice of America.\nUntil the swearing-in of Charles Djou on May 25, 2010, Saiki was the only Republican to ever hold a House seat from the state of Hawaii and one of only two Republican Members of Congress (the other being Senator Hiram Fong) to represent the state since it gained statehood. She is also the second woman to be elected to Congress from the state of Hawaii (the first being Patsy Mink, with whom Saiki served for two years).\nWhile in office, Saiki focused on education-related issues. She was a commissioner for the Western Interstate Commission on Higher Education, and was a member of the Fund for the Improvement of Higher Education. Though fiscally conservative, she also pushed for the redress of Japanese Americans for their internment during World War II.\nSaiki voted for the Abandoned Shipwrecks Act. The Act asserts United States title to certain abandoned shipwrecks located on or embedded in submerged lands under state jurisdiction, and transfers title to the respective state, thereby empowering states to manage these cultural and historical resources more efficiently, with the goal of preventing treasure hunters and salvagers from damaging them. President Ronald Reagan signed it into law on April 28, 1988.\nIn 1990, she lost a United States Senate race to Daniel Akaka, but was then appointed Administrator of the Small Business Administration under President George H. W. Bush. In 1994, she lost a race for Governor of Hawaii against Democratic challenger Ben Cayetano. Saiki subsequently chaired the Hawaii Presidential campaign of former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani in 2008 and the 2010 and 2012 congressional campaigns of Charles Djou. She served from 2014 to 2015 as chair of the Republican Party of Hawaii."}
{"id": "715249", "revid": "46410798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715249", "title": "Asian Football Confederation", "text": "The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) is the governing body of association football, beach soccer, and futsal in most countries and territories in Asia. The AFC was formed in 1954. It has 47 members. The Asian Ladies Football Confederation (ALFC) was the section of AFC that managed women's association football in Asia. The group was independently founded in April 1968 in a meeting involving Taiwan, British Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Singapore. In 1986, ALFC merged with AFC.\nMember associations.\nThe AFC has 47 member associations split into five subregions: Central (four former Soviet Central Asian countries plus Afghanistan and Iran), East (eight East Asian nations and two Micronesian territories: Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands), South (five countries on the Indian Subcontinent plus Maldives and Sri Lanka), South East (eleven ASEAN countries plus Australia), and West (twelve Arab countries). Afghanistan, Burma (Myanmar), the Republic of China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, and Vietnam were the founding members.\nCompetitions.\nAFC competitions.\nNational teams:\nEsports\nClubs:\nDefunct\nNational teams:\nClubs:\nAFC runs the AFC Asian Cup and the AFC Women's Asian Cup, which are held every 4 years. AFC organises the AFC Futsal Asian Cup, AFC Women's Futsal Asian Cup, AFC Beach Soccer Asian Cup, various age-level international association football, youth futsal tournaments and the Asian qualifying tournament for the FIFA World Cup and for football at the Summer Olympics.\nThe top-ranked AFC tournament for men's association football clubs is the AFC Champions League Elite. The competition is an amalgamation of the Asian Club Championship, the Asian Cup Winners' Cup and the Asian Super Cup and gathers the top teams from the highest-ranked nations in Asia (the number of teams depend on that country's ranking and can be upgraded or downgraded). The top-ranked AFC tournament for women's association football clubs is the AFC Women's Champions League which was launched in the 2024\u201325 season.\nThe second-tier men's tournament is the AFC Champions League Two, while the third-tier tournament is the AFC Challenge League, which were both revamped and rebranded in 2024.\nAFC runs an annual Asian futsal club tournament, the AFC Futsal Club Championship for futsal club competition.\nRankings.\nMen's elo rankings.\nWorld Football Elo Ratings for AFC members:\nClub Competitions Ranking.\nThe AFC Club Competitions Ranking ranks its member associations by results in the AFC competitions. Rankings are calculated by AFC. Listed here are the top 30 countries.\nBeach soccer national teams.\nRankings are calculated by Beach Soccer Worldwide (BSWW).\nTournament record.\nFor each tournament, the flag of the host country and the number of teams in each finals tournament (in brackets) are shown."}
{"id": "715250", "revid": "5286041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715250", "title": "Autonomous republics of Russia", "text": "Autonomous republics of Russia may refer to:"}
{"id": "715252", "revid": "38173635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715252", "title": "Romanovsky District", "text": "Romanovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715257", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715257", "title": "Beverlee McKinsey", "text": "Beverlee McKinsey (born Beverlee Magruder; August 9, 1935 \u2013 May 2, 2008) was an American actress. She is best known for her roles on daytime serials, including Iris Cory Carrington on \"Another World\" and the spin-off series \"Texas\" from 1972 to 1981 and Alexandra Spaulding on \"Guiding Light\" from 1984 to 1992.\nEarly life.\nMcKinsey was born Beverlee Magruder in McAlester, Oklahoma, on August 9, 1935. She was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Warren S. Magruder of Tulsa. \nMcKinsey graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1956 with a degree in drama. She taught in schools in four states before she was married.\nEarly career.\nIn 1960, McKinsey was host of \"Make-Believe Clubhouse\", a Monday-Friday afternoon children's program on WGBH-TV in Boston and WENH-TV in Durham, New Hampshire.\nShe understudied the leading role of newlywed Corie in the original Broadway production of \"Barefoot in the Park\" and was given the opportunity to perform the role opposite Robert Redford several times. She also co-starred as Honey in the London production of \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\", starring Uta Hagen and Arthur Hill. She started her career in off-Broadway theater, often appearing alongside James Earl Jones and Doris Belack. Her other work on Broadway included performing in \"Mert and Phil\" and being an understudy for \"Man and Boy\". \nMcKinsey moved to Hollywood in the late 1960s, and after several appearances in episodic television shows, she appeared on daytime TV. She played Diana Martin, a reporter, on \"Love of Life\", and was then cast in the contract role of Martha Donnelly/Julie Richards (1970\u20131971) on \"Love Is a Many Splendored Thing\", where she worked with future husband, Berkeley Harris.\nDaytime television career.\nIris Carrington.\nAfter a brief appearance as Emma Frame on \"Another World\" in May 1972, she so impressed then-head writer Harding Lemay that he subsequently cast her in a drastically different role, from dowdy Emma to that of manipulative, scheming Iris Carrington. McKinsey played the role from December 1972 to July 1980. During much of her tenure on \"Another World\", McKinsey's portrayal of Iris was part of an unconventional triangle - the character was trying to break up her father Mackenzie Cory and his new wife, Rachel Davis Frame.\nMcKinsey was made the star of the soap's spin-off series, \"Texas\", which debuted August 4, 1980. She remains one of three actors on daytime television to be given a star billing on a soap opera, the others being Rosemary Prinz of \"All My Children\" and \"How to Survive a Marriage\", and Dana Andrews of \"Bright Promise\". \nAfter McKinsey left the role of Iris in November 1981, NBC's \"Texas\" eventually lost one million viewers in the Nielsen ratings and was canceled in 1982. \nMcKinsey received four Daytime Emmy nominations for her work as Iris.\nAlexandra Spaulding.\nAfter a hiatus from daytime, Gail Kobe, then executive producer of \"Guiding Light\", lured McKinsey to \"Guiding Light\", on CBS, in February 1984 in the newly created character of wealthy matriarch Baroness Alexandra Spaulding Von Halkein.\nAs Alexandra, McKinsey's initial work was portraying Alexandra's love for power and the desire to best brother Alan Spaulding, as well as to reclaim the affection, love, and approval of Lujack/Nick, her twin sons who were forcibly taken away from her at birth. Alexandra also cared deeply for her nephews, Phillip and Alan-Michael, but was irritated by Phillip's ex-wives, India and Blake. \nWhile Alexandra could be a snob (and ruthless) at times, she also could let her hair down, as when she went bowling with then-beau H.B. Lewis (Larry Gates). Her ruthlessness was revealed when Alexandra married Roger Thorpe (Michael Zaslow), then subsequently discovered he was involved in an affair with the younger Mindy Lewis. The scene where Alexandra humiliates Roger in public at the country club is now considered a \"Guiding Light\" classic scene.\nIn 1992, McKinsey took advantage of an out in her contract, and abruptly left the show. Soap journalist Michael Logan wrote about the turn of events:\nInterviewing McKinsey was a dream. There were never any \"I just love everyone I work with\" cliches. After she exited \"Guiding Light\", McKinsey cited her \"not very pleasant\" work environment for one of the reasons she chose to leave the daytime serial. Looking at her contract, she discovered she could leave the show after every six-month period. So McKinsey took advantage of the contract the day before her annual eight-week vacation. McKinsey went on permanent vacation. McKinsey adamantly defended her choice to exit the show. Her bosses felt they had been bamboozled. \"They're bent out of shape because, for once, somebody beat 'em at their own game,\" she said. \"I had warned Jill (the show's then-executive producer Jill Farren Phelps)\u00a0\u2013 although I don't think she paid attention to me\u00a0\u2013 that I was not happy. I was not happy with the story line.\" She had confided in Phelps previously that she was frustrated enough to quit, and was told in response that perhaps she should read her contract.\nMcKinsey later quipped that perhaps Phelps and the rest of the \"Guiding Light\" production team were who should have read the contract. \"They didn't read the contract! I read it very closely. I knew every word. The next day, they were all combing over the contract. Somebody said, 'Maybe Beverlee's not familiar with the contract.' Well, of course she was! She wrote it, you bozos. She wrote it! I've had this out clause since 1986. I asked for it and it was P&amp;G that determined how much notice they wanted me to give\u00a0\u2013 and they chose eight weeks.\"\nIn addition to her issues with storytelling, which she said would not have motivated her to leave if her working environment had been happier, McKinsey noted that acting had simply stopped being fun for her. \"The hours just made me crazy. They were too long,\" she explained.\nPersonal life.\nShe was married three times, and had one son, Scott McKinsey from her marriage to Mark McKinsey. Her son is a director on the soap opera \"General Hospital\" (on which she briefly appeared in 1994).\nAfter being married to Angus Duncan, McKinsey married Berkeley Harris, a co-star from \"Love Is a Many Splendored Thing\", in 1971, and cared for him during his illness from terminal brain cancer prior to his death in 1984. \nIn 1994, she made a brief appearance as Myrna Slaughter on \"General Hospital\". In an interview, she said she took the role to qualify for her medical insurance, but otherwise adamantly considered herself retired from soaps from that moment in 1992 when she last left the set of \"Guiding Light\". She had resisted all entreaties to return to daytime television. After some health issues, including a kidney transplant, McKinsey retired to Southern California and made few public appearances.\nDeath.\nBeverlee McKinsey died on May 2, 2008, at the Olympic Medical Center in Los Angeles, from complications due to a kidney transplant, which she had undergone in 1998."}
{"id": "715260", "revid": "196446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715260", "title": "Eddings", "text": "Eddings is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:"}
{"id": "715263", "revid": "40519033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715263", "title": "Robert Hiltzik", "text": "Robert Hiltzik (born ) is an American director and writer. He is writer and director of the 1983 summer camp slasher film \"Sleepaway Camp\", which attracted a cult following.\nHiltzik graduated from Williams College and continued to NYU's Tisch School of the Arts for film and then attended Hofstra University Law School. He now works as a partner in a New York City law firm.\nHiltzik was unaware that his film had gained such a devoted following over the years, until he was contacted in March 2000 by Sleepawaycampmovies.com's Jeff Hayes, who arranged for him to record a commentary for the film's Anchor Bay Entertainment DVD. After a number of sequels directed and written by others, Hiltzik returned to write and direct a 2003 sequel, \"Return to Sleepaway Camp\". He decided that this newest chapter would ignore the storylines of the other sequels, saying that he wanted to pick up where the original film had ended. The production was stopped for some time (according to Fangoria.com, the digital effects were being redone) before being released in 2008 as a direct-to-video sequel. Hiltzik has not directed any other films."}
{"id": "715265", "revid": "34604397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715265", "title": "Confederation of African Football", "text": "The Confederation of African Football (CAF) is the administrative and controlling body for association football, beach soccer, and futsal in Africa. It was officially established on 8 February 1957 at the Grand Hotel in Khartoum, Sudan. The foundation followed a decision made at the 1954 FIFA Congress in Bern, Switzerland, where Africa was formally recognised as a football confederation.\nRepresenting the African confederation of FIFA, CAF organises runs and regulates national team and club continental competitions annually or biennially such as the Africa Cup of Nations and Women's Africa Cup of Nations, which they control the prize money and broadcast rights to. CAF will be allocated 9 spots at the FIFA World Cup starting from 2026 and could have an opportunity of 10 spots with the addition of an intercontinental play-off tournament involving 6 teams to decide the last 2 FIFA World Cup places (46+2).\nThe headquarters of CAF were originally located within the offices of the Sudanese Football Association in Khartoum, before being relocated to a site near Cairo, Egypt, following a fire. Youssef Mohamad served as the organisation\u2019s first general secretary, and Abdel Aziz Abdallah Salem was its first president. The current president, Patrice Motsepe of South Africa, was first elected unopposed on 12 March 2021 in elections held in Rabat, Morocco.\nAnthem.\nCAF launched a competition for all African composers to create its anthem without lyrics to reflect the cultural patrimony and the music of Africa on 18 September 2007.\nLeadership.\nSources:\nMembers and zones.\nA total of 54 member associations are part of the Confederation of African Football.\nMembers.\nAdditionally, there are territories located in Africa which are not affiliated with CAF or any other confederation to any extent.\nSome African states with limited or no international recognition have official national teams, but none have been considered for CAF membership. Instead, they are affiliated with organisations such as CONIFA. Somaliland is not a member of CONIFA after leaving in 2010s and is a candidate to join FIFA after its recognition in the coming years.\nCompetitions.\nCAF competitions.\nNational teams:\nClubs:\nRegional:\nInter Continental:\nInternational.\nShortly after formation, CAF organised the Africa Cup of Nations (abbreviated AFCON) in 1957 and it has since become its flagship competition. Faced with undisclosed decline in popularity of local competitions and the mass exodus of homegrown footballers to Europe, Asia and the Americas in the 1990s and early 2000s, CAF launched the African Nations Championship (alternatively, though not widely used, the Championship of African Nations (CHAN)) on 11 September 2007 and began organisation two years later, to address this issue. CAF also organises qualification tournaments/competitions for the FIFA U-20 World Cup and the FIFA U-17 World Cup for its member associations; both of which initially began on a home-and-away two-legged basis but has since 1995 been organised in appointed host countries as respectively the Under-20 and U-17 Africa Cup of Nations.\nFor women's football operates competitions which currently serve as qualification tournaments for the related FIFA-organised tournaments which launched at the exact same year they began formation. The flagship African women's football competition/tournament is the Women's Africa Cup of Nations, which launched in 1991 as the \"African Women's Championship\" and was known in the mass media between 2015 and 2021 as the \"Africa/African Women/Women's Cup of Nations\", which currently qualifies 4 teams to the FIFA Women's World Cup. CAF also organises qualification matches for \"promising future female footballers\" at both the Under-20 and Under-17 levels, launched in 2002 and 2008 respectively, both of which crowns no champions but instead qualifies 2 teams to compete at the FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup and the FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup respectively.\nClub.\nFor African clubs, CAF runs the CAF Men's and Women's Champions League, the CAF Confederation Cup, the CAF Super Cup and the African Schools Football Championship for both males and females. First held in 1964 as the \"African Cup of Champions Clubs\" (simply known sometimes as the African Cup) and rebranded in 1997 as the CAF Champions League, this football club competition currently features the champions of top-division leagues of CAF member associations and the runners-up teams of the league classifications of member associations the top 12 ranked national associations as documented by the CAF 5-year ranking system.\nA currently-former competition, the African Cup Winners' Cup, commenced in 1975 for national cup winners of member associations and a third currently-former competition, the CAF Cup, launched in 1992 for African teams who finished below the top 2 positions of the league classifications of member associations and haven't met any criteria for qualification to any CAF competition. CAF decided to merge these two competitions together to form the current second-tier CAF Confederation Cup in 2004, and it currently incorporates the participation of national cup winners from the Cup Winners' Cup, whiles maintaining the format of the participation of teams who finished 3rd in the top-division league classifications of the 12 highest-ranked member associations as documented by the CAF 5-Year Ranking system from the CAF Cup. It is also ranked below the CAF Champions League.\nThe winners of the CAF Champions League play the winners of the African Cup Winners' Cup until 2004 and the CAF Confederation Cup thereafter in the CAF Super Cup which was launched in 1993.\nThe Afro-Asian Club Championship was an annual football match jointly organised between CAF and the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) between the winners of the CAF Champions League and the winners of the AFC Champions League between 1987 and 1999.\nThe CAF Women's Champions League was announced and approved on 30 June 2020, launched on 12 September that year and began contesting the following year, i.e. 2021. It features women's national league and cup winners nvolving the champions of CAF's sub-confederation qualification tournaments for women's club teams.\nSponsorship.\nIn October 2004, South African telecommunications giant, MTN, contracted a 4-year deal to sponsor CAF competitions worth US$12.5 million, which was the biggest sponsorship deal in African sporting history at that time.\nCAF opened new sponsorship callouts when MTN's contract expired and French telecommunications giant Orange scooped it up in July 2009, signing an 8-year comprehensive long-term undisclosed deal to sponsor CAF competitions with a value of \u20ac100 million.\nOn 21 July 2016, French energy and petroleum giant, Total S.A., replaced Orange as the main sponsor with an 8-year sponsorship package from CAF for a value of \u20ac950 million to support its competitions. Total rebranded as TotalEnergies on 28 May 2021.\nThe current main CAF sponsors are:\nOther rankings.\nCAF overall ranking of African clubs by titles.\nThe following clubs are the top 10 clubs in CAF competitions.\nNon-CAF competition.\nThe 1982 African Super Cup is a match which took place on 25 January 1982 during the in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. The Kabyles of JS Kabylie won this trophy against the Cameroonians of Union Douala.\nBy country.\nThe following table lists all the countries whose clubs have won at least one CAF competition. Egyptian clubs are the most successful, with a total of 44 titles. Egyptian clubs hold a record number of wins in the African Cup of Champions Clubs/CAF Champions League (19), the now-defunct African Cup Winners' Cup (8), the CAF Super Cup (12) and the now-defunct Afro-Asian Club Championship (3), followed by Tunisian clubs with 24 titles and they have the most victories in the now-defunct CAF Cup (4) and Moroccan clubs have secured also 24 titles with the most victories in the CAF Confederation Cup (7).\nCAF overall ranking of African clubs.\nRankings are calculated by the CAF based on points gathered by African teams throughout their participation in international club tournaments organised by either CAF themselves or FIFA since the establishment of the first African Cup of Champions Clubs in 1964.\nMen's Futsal.\nPer 12 December 2025:\n(**)= Inactive for more than 24 months\nBeach soccer national teams.\nRankings are calculated by Beach Soccer Worldwide (BSWW). Top ten, last updated 1 October 2025 \nMajor tournament records.\nFor each tournament, the flag of the host country and the number of teams in each finals tournament (in brackets) are shown.\nFIFA Women's World Cup.\nTeams are sorted by number of appearances.\nCAF Best Footballers of the Century.\nThe voting to select the best of the century refers to three categories: male player, goalkeeper and female player and is obtained from five different steps. The resulting best players and goalkeepers were honoured during the \"World Football Gala 1999\".\nCAF Golden Jubilee Best Players poll.\nIn 2007, CAF published the list of top 30 African players who played in the period from 1957 to 2007, as part of the celebration of the golden jubilee or 50th anniversary of the foundation of CAF, ordered according to an online poll.\nCAF resolutions.\nAwards:\nQualifications:\nInternational top goalscorers.\nThis table is for players with 30 or more goals for a CAF national team. Players in bold are still active at international level."}
{"id": "715268", "revid": "13541347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715268", "title": "Northern Belle", "text": "The Northern Belle was an American transatlantic ship which ran aground near Thanet, England, on 5 January 1857. No lives on her were lost, thanks to heroic rescue efforts, in blizzard conditions. However, another ship sank, en route to the scene, the Margate lugger \"Victory\" which was lost along with her crew.\nThe \"Belle\" was constructed in 1853, under the ownership of J. P. Whitney and Co. of New Orleans. Her common routes were New Orleans to Liverpool and Le Havre, carrying wheat on the outbound run. A barque of 1,150 tons burden with a crew of 23, she was on a voyage from New York to London, with a cargo of wheat, flour, and linseed cake, when as a result of an unusually heavy gale had to put into Kingsgate, Kent. She anchored 3/4 of a mile from the shore, however by 6 am she was riding heavily, the sea occasionally breaking completely over her. The storm was so ferocious that the main and mizzen masts were cut away by the crew at 6.30am. The Margate lugger \"Victory\", along with the \"Ocean\", and the \"Eclipse\" attempted a rescue and possible salvage. The \"Victory\" was lost along with her crew at 11.30 am. The storm raged all day and local lifeboats were not able to launch. The \"Belle\" parted from her anchors at midnight, and was driven onto the rocks beneath nearby cliffs, at Foreness Point. The crew lashed themselves to the one remaining mast and were spotted from the beach at dawn. Two lifeboats, the \"Mary White\" and the \"Culmer White\", made three trips to rescue them. The lifeboats and crew were from Broadstairs and Margate. The \"Mary White\" had to be hauled and dragged two miles over fields of snow to bring it to a place from which it could be launched. Captain Tate and his crew from the \"Northern Belle\" were all saved.\nOn 15 January 1857 (Thursday) the \"Illustrated Times of London\" advertised that they would print five engravings of the tragedy and portraits of the crew the following Saturday.\nIt was reported on 22 January, in a letter to the \"London Evening Standard\", that the ship and cargo were still on the reef, in good condition, and were salvageable.\nNews of the disaster was broadcast world-wide, as far as the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" who picked up the story from the \"New York Times\". A benefit by \"gentlemen amateurs\" was held at the St James's Theatre, in London, on 7 February.\nOn 23 February 1857 3,340 barrels of damaged American flour, part of the cargo, was auctioned off at the New Corn Exchange Coffee House, Mark Lane, London. On 2 March, another 450 barrels of damaged American flour and 20 barrels of damaged linseed cake was auctioned at the coffee house.\n\"The Times\" reported on 5 March that the vessel was a shipping hazard and all her cargo had been salvaged except forty to fifty logs of mahogany. It was thought that only two barrels of dynamite would be required to destroy the wreck. The \"Liverpool Echo\" pointed out on 9 March 1857 that the wreck in foggy weather was an obstacle to navigation, \"A few days ago a ship had a narrow escape by striking it.\"\nIn April 1857, the U.S. president Franklin Pierce had 21 silver medals struck and issued an award of \u00a3270 sterling for sharing amongst the rescuers, \u00a310\u2013\u00a330 per man.\nThe London \"Morning Chronicle\" of 9 October 1857 reported that the wreck was to be raised, and that chains had been fitted with a view of floating her with the aid of buoys at the next spring tides. Some Whitstable people had bought the hull for \u00a3260.\nAttempts to raise the \"Belle\" on 21 November 1857 were unsuccessful despite successfully raising the stern out of the water with the help of four pontoons. One of the chains around the hull broke during the process, aborting the attempt. The masts disappeared from view in early December, and a green buoy marked \"Wreck\" was put in place 10 fathoms eastward from the stern.\nIn June 1858 Canterbury Town Council, put on display a piece of the wreck taken from the recently raised hull, which was completely riddled with Teredo worm.\nA Margate beer shop was named the Northern Belle in 1858.\nLegacy.\nThe tragedy inspired several literary works including novels and poetry. Charles Mackay published a poem \"Northern Belle \u2013 a tribute to the brave\", in February 1857. Edwin Arnold wrote \"The Wreck of the Northern Belle\" with the proceeds to go to representatives of the \"Victory\" crew."}
{"id": "715270", "revid": "50572492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715270", "title": "Car-free movement", "text": "The car-free movement is a social movement that advocates for car-free cities, centered on the belief that large and/or high-speed motorized vehicles (cars, trucks, tractor units, motorcycles, etc.) have become excessively dominant in modern life, particularly in urban areas such as cities and suburbs. It is a broad, informal, emergent network of individuals and organizations, including social activists, urban planners, transportation engineers and environmentalists, among others. The goal of the movement is to establish places where motorized vehicle use is greatly reduced or eliminated, by converting road and parking space to other public uses and rebuilding compact urban environments where most destinations are within easy reach by other means, including walking, cycling, public transport, personal transporters, and mobility as a service.\nContext.\nBefore the twentieth century, cities and towns were usually compact, containing narrow streets busy with human activity. In the early twentieth century, many of these settlements were adapted to accommodate the car with wider roads, more car parking spaces, and lower population densities, with space between urban buildings reserved for automotive use. Lower population densities caused urban sprawl with longer distances between locations. This also brought traffic congestion which made older transport methods unattractive or impractical, and created the conditions for more traffic and sprawl; the car system was \"increasingly able to 'drive' out competitors, such as feet, bikes, buses and trains\". This process led to changes in urban form and living patterns that offered little opportunity for people without a car.\nSome governments have responded with policies and regulations aimed at reversing auto dependency by increasing urban densities, encouraging mixed use development and infill, reducing space allocated to private cars, increasing walkability, supporting cycling and other alternative vehicles similar in size and speed, and public transport. Globally, urban planning is evolving in an effort to increase public transport and non-motorized transport modal shares and shift away from private transport oriented development. Cities like Hong Kong developed a highly integrated public transportation system which effectively reduced the use of private transport. In contrast with private automotive travel, car sharing, where people can easily rent a car for a few hours rather than own one, is emerging as an increasingly important element for urban transportation.\nUrban design.\nProponents of the car-free movement focus on both sustainable and public transport (bus, tram, etc.) options and on urban design, zoning, school placement policies, urban agriculture, remote work options, and housing developments that create proximity or access so that long-distance transportation becomes less of a requirement of daily life.\nNew urbanism is an American urban design movement that arose in the early 1980s. Its goal has been to reform all aspects of real estate development and urban planning, from urban retrofits to suburban infill. New urbanist neighborhoods are designed to contain a diverse range of housing and jobs, and to be walkable. Other, more auto-oriented cities are also making incremental changes to provide transportation alternatives through Complete streets improvements.\n\"World Squares for all\" is a scheme to remove much of the traffic from major squares in London, including Trafalgar Square and Parliament Square.\nCar-free cities are, as the name implies, entire cities (or at least the inner parts thereof) which have been made entirely car-free.\nCar-free zones are areas of a city or town where the use of cars is prohibited or greatly restricted.\nTo make the car-free zones/cities, (movable and/or stationary) bollards and other barriers are often used to deny car access.\nLiving streets and complete streets prioritize the needs of users of the street as a whole over those of car drivers. They are designed to be shared by pedestrians, playing children, bicyclists, and low-speed motor vehicles.\nDistribution centers allow easy restocking of supermarkets, outlet stores, restaurants, and more in city centers. They rely on tractor units to unload their cargo in the suburban distribution center. \nThe products are then placed in a small truck (sometimes electrically powered), cargo bike, or other vehicle to bridge the last mile to the destination in the city center. Besides offering advantages to the population (increased safety due to truck drivers having less blind spots, reduced noise pollution and traffic, reduced tailpipe emissions and reduced air pollution, and more), it also offers financial advantage for the companies, as tractor units require a lot of time to bridge this last mile (they lack agility and consume much fuel in congested streets).\nThe method above however still does not reduce car use inside non-car-free city centers (customers often use cars to fetch their groceries or appliances from city stores, since they have so much storage space). This problem is solved by means of online food ordering systems, which allow customers to order online, and then have it delivered to their doorstep by the supermarket or store itself, through bicycle couriers (using cargo bikes), electric delivery robots and delivery vans. Delivery vans allow to take along more cargo and deliver to several customers on a same trip. These food ordering systems could provide for a smooth transition for those cities that wish to become car-free as it can reduce both personal car use and personal car demand in cities.\nAt the outskirts of towns, between the exits of the rings roads, and the car-free zones in the city center themselves, additional car parking lots can be added, generally in the form of underground car parks (to avoid it taking up surface space). Careful placement of these car-parking lots is needed though, ensuring that they are made far enough from the city centers (and closer to the ring roads) to avoid them attracting more cars to the city center. In some instances, near these car parking lots, Park and ride public transport (i.e. bus) stops are foreseen, or bicycle-sharing systems are present.\nCommunity bicycle programs provide bicycles within an urban environment for short term use. The first successful scheme was in the 1960s in Amsterdam and can now be found in many other cities with 20,000 bicycles introduced to Paris in 2007 in the V\u00e9lib' scheme. Dockless bike share systems have recently appeared in the United States and provide more convenience for people wanting to rent a bike for a short time period. There has been controversy surrounding bicycle lanes impacts on lanes for traffic.\nAdvocacy groups.\nThe Campaign for Better Transport (formerly known as Transport2000) was formed in 1972 in Britain to challenge proposed cuts in the British rail network and since then has promoted public transport.\nCar Free Walks is a UK-based website encouraging walkers to use public transport to reach the start and end of walks, rather than using a car.\nActivism groups.\nRoad protests in the United Kingdom rose to prominence in the early 1990s in response to a major road building program both in urban communities and also rural areas.\nReclaim the Streets, a movement formed in 1991 in London, \"invaded\" major roads, highway or freeway to stage parties. While this may obstruct the regular users of these spaces such as car drivers and public bus riders, the philosophy of RTS is that it is vehicle traffic, not pedestrians, who are causing the obstruction, and that by occupying the road they are in fact opening up public space.\nIn Flanders, the organization Fietsersbond has called upon the government to ban tractor units in city centers.\nCritical Mass rides emerged in 1992 in San Francisco where cyclists take to the streets en masse to dominate the traffic, using the slogan \"we are traffic.\" The ride was founded with the idea of drawing attention to how unfriendly the city was to bicyclists. The movement has grown to include events in major metropolitan cities around the world.\nThe World Naked Bike Ride was born in 2001 in Spain with the first naked bike rides, which then emerged as the WNBR in 2004 a concept which rapidly spread through collaborations with many different activist groups and individuals around the world to promote bicycle transportation, renewable energy, recreation, walkable communities, and environmentally responsible, sustainable living.\nParking Days started in 2005 when REBAR, a collaborative group of creators, designers and activists based in San Francisco, transformed a metered parking spot into a small park complete with turf, seating, and shade and by 2007 there were 180 parks in 27 cities around the world.\n is an anti-car subreddit with 440,000 members as of July 2024.\nIn the Netherlands a group self-identified as 'car free' to emancipate those who do not own a car. Under the name 'Ik Ben Autovrij' in reference to the 25% of Dutch households without a car, of which one quarter consciously chose to not own a car; 6% of all households according to research about car affordability. \nOfficial events.\nCar Free Days are official events with the common goal of taking a fair number of cars off the streets of a city or some target area or neighborhood for all or part of a day, in order to give the people who live and work there a chance to consider how their city might look and work with significantly fewer cars. The first events were organized in Reykjav\u00edk (Iceland), Bath (UK) and La Rochelle (France) in 1995. Jakarta, Indonesia is one such city that hosts weekly Car-Free days.\nCiclov\u00eda is a similar event in many cities that places a large emphasis on cycling as an alternative to auto travel. The event originated in Bogot\u00e1, Colombia in 1974. Now, Bogot\u00e1 holds weekly ciclov\u00edas that turn the streets into giant car-free celebrations complete with stages set up in city parks with aerobics instructors, yoga teachers, and musicians leading people through various performances. The event has inspired similar celebrations globally.\n\"In town, without my car!\" is an EU campaign and day every autumn (Northern Hemisphere) for an increased use of vehicles other than the car. It has since spread beyond the EU, and in 2004 more than 40 countries participated.\nWorld Urbanism Day was founded in 1949 in Buenos Aires and is celebrated in more than 30 countries on four continents each November 8.\n\"Towards Car-free Cities\" is the annual conference of the World Car-free Network and provides a focal point for diverse aspects of the emerging global car-free movement. The conference has been held in major cities around the world, including Portland, Oregon, United States in 2008 (its first time in North America), and has also been in Istanbul, Turkey; Bogota, Colombia; Budapest, Hungary; Berlin, Germany; Prague, Czech Republic; Timi\u0219oara, Romania; and Lyon, France. The conference series attempts to bridge the gap between many of the diverse people and organizations interested in reducing urban dependence on the automobile.\nTransportation Alternatives' \"Annual Commuter Race\" pits a bicyclist against both a subway rider and a cab rider in a race from Queens to Manhattan. The Fifth Annual Commuter race took place in May 2009, where bicyclist Rachel Myers beat straphanger Dan Hendrick and cab rider Willie Thompson to make it the fifth year the contestant on the bicycle won. Myers took the 2009 title with a time of 20 minutes and 15 seconds to make the 4.2 mile trek from Sunnyside, Queens to Columbus Circle in Manhattan. Hendrick showed up 15 minutes later off the subway and Thompson arrived via cab nearly a half-hour after that. Transportation Alternatives is a group that \"seeks to change New York City's transportation priorities to encourage and increase non-polluting, quiet, city-friendly travel and decrease\u2014not ban\u2014private car use. [They] seek a rational transportation system based on a 'Green Transportation Hierarchy,' which gives preference to modes of travel based on their benefits and costs to society. To achieve its goals, T.A. works in five areas: Bicycling, Walking and Traffic Calming, Car-Free Parks, Safe Streets and Sensible Transportation.\" The 2009 Commuter Race came on the heels of a Times Square traffic ban in NYC that drew national media attention.\nCar-free development.\nDefinitions and types.\nThere are many areas of the world where people have always lived without cars, because no road access is possible, or none has been provided. In developed countries these include islands and some historic neighborhoods or settlements, the largest example being the canal city of Venice. The term carfree \"development\" implies a physical change \u2013 either new building or changes to an existing built area.\nMelia \"et al.\" (2010) define car-free development as follows:\nCar-free developments are residential or mixed use developments which:\nThis definition (which they distinguish from the more common \"low car development\") is based mainly on experience in Northwestern Europe, where the movement for car-free development began. Within this definition three types are identified:\nVauban.\nVauban, Freiburg, Germany is according to this definition, the largest car-free development in Europe, with over 5,000 residents. Whether it can be considered car-free is open to debate: many local people prefer the term \"\" \u2013 literally \"free from parking spaces\" to describe the traffic management system there. Vehicles are allowed down the residential streets at walking pace to pick up and deliver but not to park, although there are frequent infractions. Residents of the stellplatzfrei areas must sign an annual declaration stating whether they own a car or not. Car owners must purchase a place in one of the multi-storey car parks on the periphery, run by a council-owned company. The cost of these spaces \u2013 \u20ac17,500 in 2006, plus a monthly fee \u2013 acts as a disincentive to car ownership.\nLimited access type.\nThe more common form of car free development involves some sort of physical barrier, which prevents motor vehicles from penetrating into a car-free center. \nMelia \"et al.\" describe this as the \"Limited Access\" type. \nIn some cases such as Stellwerk 60 in Cologne, there is a removable barrier, controlled by a residents' organizations. In others cases, such as in Waterwijk, vehicular access is only available from the exterior.\nPedestrian zones.\nWhereas the first two models apply to newly built car free developments, most pedestrianized areas have been retro-fitted. Pedestrian zones may be considered car-free developments where they include a significant population and a low rate of vehicle ownership per household. The largest example in Europe is Groningen, Netherlands which had a city centre population of 16,500 in 2008.\nBenefits and problems.\nSeveral studies have been done on European car free developments. The most comprehensive was conducted in 2000 by Jan Scheurer. Other more recent studies have been made of specific car-free areas such as Vienna's Floridsdorf car-free development.\nThe main benefits found for car free developments (summarized in Melia \"et al.\" 2010) found in the various studies are:\nThe main problems are related to parking management - if parking is not controlled in the surrounding area, there are often complaints from neighbors about overspill parking."}
{"id": "715271", "revid": "211905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715271", "title": "Don MacLaughlin", "text": "William Donald MacLaughlin (November 24, 1906 \u2013 May 28, 1986) was an American actor. The son of a doctor, MacLaughlin was born November 24, 1906, in Webster, Iowa. He studied speech and English at Iowa Wesleyan University, Northwestern University, and the University of Arizona.\nEarly years.\nMacLaughlin's family contained \"a long line of ministers\", and he planned to study for the ministry when he entered college.\nTelevision.\nMacLaughlin originated the role of lawyer Chris Hughes on \"As the World Turns\" in 1956, and played the role until his death in 1986. Contract negotiations kept him (and his on-screen wife Helen Wagner) off the soap for most of the early 1980s, but the show finally welcomed the two back in a big storyline with heavy uses of past clips from the show. In the story, Chris and his wife Nancy were celebrating their fiftieth wedding anniversary. In real life, \"As the World Turns\" was celebrating its thirtieth anniversary on the air. \nMacLaughlin was also a member of the Gang Busters.\nRadio.\nPrior to TV, MacLaughlin was active on radio, beginning in 1933. He starred as the title character on radio's \"David Harding, Counterspy\" in the 1940s and 1950s. In 1945, he joined the cast of \"The Romance of Helen Trent\", in the role of Dwight Swanson, \"a rancher who becomes interested in Helen Trent.\" MacLaughlin's other roles on radio included those listed in the table below.\nHe was also in the cast of \"Buck Private and His Girl\".\nStage.\nMacLaughlin appeared in a 1948 Broadway production of Thornton Wilder's play, \"The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden\" and in \"Virginia Reel\" (1947) and \"The Fifth Column\" (1940).\nPersonal life.\nMacLaughlin married Mary Prugh, a newspaperwoman. They had three children.\nDeath.\nAfter a brief illness, Maclaughlin died on May 28, 1986, at his daughter's home in Goshen, Connecticut, and is buried in Dover, Vermont."}
{"id": "715274", "revid": "42930586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715274", "title": "Rybinsky District", "text": "Rybinsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715277", "revid": "42219906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715277", "title": "Metamorpho", "text": "Metamorpho (Rex Mason) is a superhero character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by Bob Haney and Ramona Fradon, the character debuted as the lead feature in \"The Brave and the Bold\" (January 1965). Originally an adventurer, he was converted into a metahuman made of several different elemental substances after being cursed by an ancient artifact while on an expedition. He is a founding member of the Outsiders, and has also joined multiple incarnations of the Justice League. \nAnthony Carrigan portrays the character in the DC Universe (DCU), beginning with the film \"Superman\" (2025). Additionally, Tom Sizemore, Scott Menville, Adam Baldwin, and Fred Tatasciore have voiced the character in animation.\nCreation.\nIn a 2013 interview with Comic Book Resources, Fradon spoke on the character's genesis stating, \nPublication history.\nMetamorpho's creator, Bob Haney, had seen success with DC Comics in 1964 with the titles \"Metal Men\" and \"Doom Patrol\", featuring bands of superheroes exhibiting fantastic powers. Under the editorial management of George Kashdan, Haney was asked to capitalize on these titles' popularity with a similar character. Metamorpho debuted in \"The Brave and the Bold\" #57 (January 1965).\nAs first conceived, Metamorpho was a parody of the fantastic characters that populated comic books in the 1960s. Artist Ramona Fradon was coaxed out of maternity retirement to illustrate Metamorpho's first appearances. The popularity of Metamorpho's appearances in \"The Brave and the Bold\" led to a 17-issue ongoing series between 1965 and 1968. Metamorpho also appeared in two issues of \"Justice League of America\" (#42 and #44), but did not join the eponymous group and became a reserve member.\nMetamorpho appears on the cover of \"Aquaman\" #30 as one of the pallbearers (along with Batman, Hawkman, and Superman) at the \"Sea King's Funeral\". Metamorpho also appears in a series of backup stories in \"Action Comics\" #413\u2013418 and \"World's Finest Comics\" #218\u2013220 and #226, #228 and 229.\nIn 1975, Metamorpho appeared in \"1st Issue Special\" #3, a brief anthology series consisting of one-shots. That issue was written by Bob Haney and illustrated by Ramona Fradon, Metamorpho's creators. Haney and Fradon had met at the 1974 San Diego Comic-Con, and while reminiscing, it emerged that both of them regarded Metamorpho as one of the features they most enjoyed working on, leading them to ask DC if they could do one more Metamorpho story together. Fradon later commented: \"I think we both felt that Metamorpho was our baby. I never had an experience like I had working with Bob Haney on \"Metamorpho\". It was like our minds were in perfect synch ... it was one of those wonderful collaborations that doesn't happen very often\".\nAfter becoming a charter member of the Outsiders in 1983, and member of the European branch of the Justice League International, Metamorpho received his own four-issue mini-series in 1993. In 2005, DC Comics reprinted Metamorpho's early \"The Brave and the Bold\" appearances and the entirety of the 1965 series as one of the company's volumes of \"Showcase Presents\". In 2007, Dan Jurgens launched the six-issue series \"Metamorpho: Year One\".\nAs part of \"Wednesday Comics\", Neil Gaiman wrote a 12-page Metamorpho story that Mike Allred illustrated. In 2016, Metamorpho starred in the anthology series \"Legends of Tomorrow\" alongside Firestorm, Sugar and Spike, and the Metal Men.\nIn 2024, Metamorpho received a new ongoing series, \"Metamorpho: The Element Man\", as part of the DC All In initiative. It is written by Al Ewing and illustrated by Steve Lieber.\nFictional character biography.\nRex Mason is an amoral adventurer and mercenary who is hired by Stagg Enterprises CEO Simon Stagg to steal an Egyptian artifact, the Orb of Ra. Shortly after hiring him, Simon Stagg learns that Mason has been secretly dating his daughter Sapphire Stagg. This and other incidents begin to fuel in Stagg a dislike for Mason that ultimately leads to a plot to kill him.\nInside the pyramid where the Orb is hidden, Mason is knocked unconscious by Simon's brutish bodyguard Java and exposed to a radioactive meteorite from which the Orb of Ra was fashioned, transforming him into Metamorpho, the Element Man. Shocked by Mason surviving, Stagg instead manipulates him to do his bidding by using the meteorite's energy to threaten him. Later, it is revealed that Ra created Metamorpho and similar beings to help him battle his mortal enemy, Apep.\nMetamorpho, unlike most super-humanoids described in DC Comics, does not possess a fully human appearance. Similar to the Marvel Comics character Thing, he considers himself a \"freak\" and wishes only to be restored to his former human state, rejecting an offer of membership from the Justice League in \"Justice League of America\" #42 because of this. Green Lantern attempts to change him back using his power ring but is stopped by a \"yellow\" component of the meteorite radiation.\nMetamorpho briefly has a crimefighting partner named Urania \"Rainie\" Blackwell, a woman who deliberately exposed herself to the Orb to gain its powers. She calls herself Element Girl (nicknamed \"the Chemical Doll\") and works with him on a number of cases.\nIssues #16\u201317 were intended to show a new direction for the series, with Sapphire marrying a man named Wally Bannister and Metamorpho joining a mysterious Mr. Shadow to deal with an immortal queen. Bent on world conquest, the queen (an exact lookalike of Sapphire) marries Metamorpho. She later steps outside her mystic city and instantly ages 2,000 years. When Wally Bannister is murdered by Algon (a metamorph who has lived for centuries in a depowered state), Metamorpho is framed. Instead of coming to his defense against the false accusations, Metamorpho's colleague Mr. Shadow comes forth as an enemy. It is revealed that Mr. Shadow was attempting to enslave Metamorpho all along. Metamorpho is tried and convicted by a jury of rabble and is then executed.\nElement Girl revives Metamorpho, and Algon, the real murderer, is killed by molten lava in an attempt to regain his burned-out powers. It is later learned that Mr. Bannister's murder was engineered by the villainous Prosecutor, who is then killed by an insectoid villain. At this point, issue #17 ends, and the story is never continued.\nMetamorpho reappears years later in \"The Brave and the Bold\" #101 (April\u2013May 1972). It is revealed that Metamorpho had spent the period after the end of his own series immersed in a chemical bath concocted by Stagg in an attempt to cure his condition. Stagg retrieves him from this \"cure\" early because he needs Mason to save Sapphire. Metamorpho stars in a new backup series beginning in \"Action Comics\" #413 (June 1972). There is no reference in this revival series to the events or characters of the last two issues of his previous series.\nUrania Blackwell, unreferenced since the end of the regular series, is later revealed to have ended her partnership with Metamorpho when her unrequited attraction to him became too much for her. Blackwell's powers are removed at her own request by Ra, resulting in her death; the episode, in Neil Gaiman's \"Sandman,\" involves Death of the Endless. Death mentions Algon's death in passing, trying to convince Blackwell that she will not live forever.\nOutsiders.\nMetamorpho spends some time working with the Outsiders. While in the despotically ruled nation Mozombia, Metamorpho is subdued and disassembled. The tyrant's forces keep him inert with a constant application of radiation. He is freed by Katana's indestructible sword, which had been latched onto a live electrical wire. While leaving Mozombia, the Outsiders' plane is shot down by the Bad Samaritan. Metamorpho and the others spend some time stranded on a deserted island, too far away from land to rescue themselves.\nIn the 1988 event \"Millennium\", Helga Jace betrays the Outsiders and kills Metamorpho. In the 1989 event \"Invasion!\", Metamorpho is resurrected when the Dominators' gene bomb detonates.\nJustice League.\nMetamorpho spends some time with the Justice League, including Justice League Europe. During this period, he encounters Sapphire Stagg again. He becomes involved in a battle with the Metal Men, who have been tricked by Simon Stagg. His League friends, Rocket Red and Animal Man, are at the site of the battle, but are being detained by Java. After the battle, Metamorpho learns he had a son with Sapphire, but the baby boy's touch harms all but Sapphire and Metamorpho. When Java holds the baby, his arms melt. Metamorpho hands the baby over to Simon, who immediately fears he will be affected like Java was moments before and die. However, something in his genetic structure protects him, just as it did with Sapphire. Simon's stance softens and everyone is set free. Doc Magnus, the leader of the Metal Men, offers his services in creating new arms for Java. On the way home, Metamorpho's friends are puzzled as to how he knew Simon would be unaffected by the child. Metamorpho indicates that he hoped the baby would kill Simon.\nLater, Metamorpho has a romantic relationship with Crimson Fox, which is cut short by her apparent murder. His personal investigation of the incident uncovers multiple layers of lies and deceit. During his time with the team, while fighting the planet-smashing aliens called The Family, Metamorpho is hit by a powerful energy blast that destroys his body. He later reforms his body with a new appearance.\nThird death and return.\nIn \"JLA\" #1, Metamorpho sacrifices himself to rescue Nuklon, Obsidian, and Icemaiden from the destruction of the Justice League satellite. He is temporarily resurrected by the Cathexis and permanently resurrected by Sapphire Stagg using the Orb of Ra.\nShortly thereafter, an accident with one of Simon Stagg's experiments turns Simon, Sapphire, and Joey into an energy being, and causes Metamorpho to take on the form and personality of Java. \"Java\" kidnaps Black Canary, asking for her help in rescuing the others. With Canary's help, he becomes Metamorpho again and returns the others to their normal forms.\nOutsiders.\nAt the same time, Metamorpho has seemingly been appearing in the \"Outsiders\" (vol. 3) series, but Rex Mason informs the team that their \"Metamorpho\" is a regrown fragment of his body.\nMetamorpho continues to serve on the Outsiders when Batman takes over, and after its further restructuring following Batman's apparent death. He is apparently killed yet again alongside the rest of the team in a satellite explosion orchestrated by Talia al Ghul.\nThe New 52.\nIn 2011, \"The New 52\" rebooted the DC universe. One story reveals that the Outsiders have survived. It is stated that Metamorpho was able to save the team by the same technique he previously used to rescue the Justice League during Hyperclan's attack. He is also shown as one of the candidates for the new Justice League International, but is ultimately not chosen.\nDC Rebirth.\nIn \"Doomsday Clock\", Metamorpho is featured on the news as an apparent example of the \"Superman Theory\", in which the government is thought to have been experimenting on humans to give them superpowers.\nIn \"The Terrifics\", Metamorpho is a member of the eponymous team, consisting of himself, Mister Terrific, and Plastic Man. They travel into the Dark Multiverse and discover Phantom Girl, who is trapped in her intangible form. Metamorpho is temporarily returned to his human form, but chooses to be transformed again and becomes Stagg Industries' chief security officer.\nPowers and abilities.\nMetamorpho can transmute his body into a wide variety of elemental compounds and form them at will. Originally, he was limited to elements that were naturally found in the human body. Somehow, this limitation seems to have disappeared. He can stretch, bounce, elongate, and reform himself like rubber or plastic. Rex is able to alter the consistencies of these chemical elements and combine them into complex compounds. Metamorpho could reshape parts or the whole of his body. Rex's body provides him with natural armor, offering damage resistance from blunt and energy attacks. He is also a skilled martial artist, archaeologist, and detective.\nEnemies.\nBesides dealing with Simon Stagg and Java, Metamorpho had his own rogues gallery in his comics:\nOther versions.\n\"DC: The New Frontier\".\nAn alternate universe variant of Metamorpho makes a cameo appearance in ' #12 as a member of the Justice League.\n\"JLA: The Nail\".\nAn alternate universe variant of Metamorpho appears in ' #2. Jimmy Olsen brainwashes an unstable Metamorpho into helping him spread anti-metahuman propaganda by threatening to kill his family. As part of Olsen's plans, Metamorpho is forced to kill the Thinker and attack a LexCorp tower in Metropolis until he is stopped by J'onn J'onzz. Metamorpho attempts to warn him of Olsen's plot, but dies due to Olsen's brainwashing.\n\"Justice\".\nAn alternate universe variant of Metamorpho appears in \"Justice\" #7 as a member of the Justice League.\nIn other media.\nVideo games.\nMetamorpho appears as a character summon in \"\"."}
{"id": "715278", "revid": "68270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715278", "title": "Cult movies", "text": ""}
{"id": "715280", "revid": "38697682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715280", "title": "Severny District", "text": "Severny District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The name literally means \"northern\"."}
{"id": "715281", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715281", "title": "Medical examination", "text": ""}
{"id": "715286", "revid": "1273126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715286", "title": "Shalinsky District", "text": "Shalinsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715291", "revid": "194203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715291", "title": "Greater Iqbal Park", "text": "Greater Iqbal Park (Punjabi/), formerly Iqbal Park and Minto Park, is an urban park located on the outskirts of the Walled City in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan.\nNoted as the home of Minar-e-Pakistan\",\" the 329-acre park includes an artificial lake which spreads over four acres which includes an 800-feet-long musical fountain. Other attractions includes a two-kilometre-long soft rail, a library, an open-air gym and a food court. The tombs of Iqbal and Hafeez Jalandhari are also located in the park.\nHistory.\nThe grounds known as Greater Iqbal Park today were used for ceremonial military parades during the Mughal era. After the ascension of the Sikhs into power in 1799, the grounds came to be known as 'Parade Ground', as the area continued to be used for the same purpose as it was by the Mughals.\nWhen the British captured Lahore in 1849, they renamed the grounds as Minto Park, after Gilbert Elliot-Murray-Kynynmound, 1st Earl of Minto, and Governor-General of India between July 1807 and 1813.\nAfter the creation of Pakistan, the park was renamed as Iqbal Park, after the poet-philosopher Muhammad Iqbal, in commemoration of the Lahore Resolution of 1940. After extensive renovations were completed in December 2016, the park was given its current name.\nRenovation and expansion.\nWork began on the upgradation of the park on 10 October 2015. Habib Construction Services Limited was contracted to complete the project. Along with renovation of the Minar-i-Pakistan, the project featured expansion of the Iqbal Park by including it in the stretch of Circular Road between the park and Lahore Fort.\nThe 125-acre green oasis is surrounded almost entirely by the old city of Lahore. The project was completed on 9 November 2016 incurring a total cost of PKR 981 million as quoted by the contractor of the project.\nThe new-look park was formally inaugurated on 17 December 2016.\nFurthermore, the National History Museum was opened in the park in 2018. It is the first digital museum in Pakistan that offers an immersive experience to visitors with the help of cutting-edge technologies. Using holograms and virtual reality equipment, this digital museum commemorates all the historic events leading to the emergence of Pakistan in 1947. Along with hosting a vast collection of national relics and antiquities, the museum also highlights the key sports and cultural events throughout the history of the country.\nFeatures.\nThe park features the following sites:"}
{"id": "715296", "revid": "14703151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715296", "title": "Katana (DC Comics)", "text": "Katana () is a superheroine appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. First appearing in 1983, Katana is a samurai warrior whose skill with a sword allows her to fight for justice as a superheroine. Her tragic backstory includes the death of her husband, Maseo, whose soul becomes trapped in her blade, the Soultaker.\nKatana has been part of various DC Comics superhero teams, including the Justice League and Birds of Prey, but is most commonly associated with the Outsiders, a team of heroes hand-picked by Batman to act as his personal black ops team, handling riskier missions. Of the character's first appearances, one critic has noted, \"The idea that a superhero would wield a sword which caught the souls of the wielder\u2019s victims was not very superhero-y. But Katana was from the start a rough and tumble character happy to use throwing stars as weapons (even if she usually used the flat of her sword otherwise).\"\nIn the 2010s, DC began to feature the character much more extensively in media adaptations of its comic books, including a recurring role in the animated series \"\" and a starring role in the series \"Beware the Batman\". The character was portrayed by Rila Fukushima in the Arrowverse TV series \"Arrow\" and by Karen Fukuhara in the 2016 DC Extended Universe film \"Suicide Squad\". Katana has also been featured in direct-to-video animated films and a number of DC Comics video games.\nCreation.\nIn a 2015 interview with ComicsAlliance, Mike W. Barr spoke on the character's genesis, stating:\nPublication history.\nKatana first appeared in \"The Brave and the Bold\" #200 (cover-dated July 1983) and was created by writer Mike W. Barr and artist Jim Aparo. She is frequently a member of \"team\" publications such as \"Batman and the Outsiders\", \"Birds of Prey\" (during the New 52 era), and \"Suicide Squad\" (during the DC Rebirth era).\nIn February 2013, Katana received her own series as part of The New 52, written by Ann Nocenti and with art by Alex Sanchez. \"Katana\" lasted for ten issues, with the final issue being released on December 11, 2013.\nFictional character biography.\nBecoming Katana.\n is an average Japanese girl, save for her proficiency in the martial arts, a trait encouraged by her parents. Two brothers\u2014Maseo and Takeo Yamashiro (from whom she gained her current surname)\u2014both proclaim their love for her. While she likes both, she chooses Maseo as her husband. Enraged, Takeo refuses to attend the couple's wedding. Maseo disowns his brother, who joined the yakuza and took their mark of a dragon tattoo across his chest. Tatsu and Maseo, mourning the deaths of Tatsu's parents, start a family of their own. Tatsu gives birth to twins, Yuki and Reiko. Meanwhile, Takeo rises through the yakuza ranks and indulges his \"exotic tastes\" for ancient weapons. He is presented with twin swords by General Karnz (later henchman to Baron Bedlam), one of which Takeo favors for its mystical properties.\nTakeo spends days preparing himself before taking both swords to the Yamashiro residence, demanding his brother to duel for the \"prize\" of Tatsu. During the course of the struggle, a fire is started, and\u2014while Maseo is distracted by his children\u2014Takeo kills his brother with the sword that later becomes known as \"Soultaker\". Tatsu arises just in time to see her husband die and engage Takeo, gaining the upper hand and disarming him. Attempting to save her children, she hears her husband's voice coming from the sword, telling her they are already lost. Escaping with her life, Tatsu begins training as a samurai under a master called Tadashi. After much time, she graduates from his tutorship and leaves for America where she intends to use her talents to fight for justice. She takes the codename Katana after the sword that she wields, possessed for some time by the soul of her husband.\nBecoming an Outsider.\nEventually Tatsu journeys to Markovia, a small Baltic state, where she tracked down Karnz, and is successful in killing him, inadvertently implicating Black Lightning (coincidentally there with Batman) in her crime. Attempting to rectify the misunderstanding by freeing Black Lightning, she encounters a young girl named Halo. The two join up to rescue Black Lightning, Batman (himself captured due to a blunder by Halo), and Bruce Wayne's employee Lucius Fox from their captor, Baron Bedlam.\nBatman is himself in Markovia to rescue Lucius Fox, and having sought\u2014and failed to gain\u2014the help of the Justice League of America, resigned his membership in the Justice League. Inspired by the teamwork he encounters between Black Lightning, Katana, Halo, Geo-Force (Prince Brion of Markovia), and Metamorpho (also coincidentally present), Batman decides to form the Outsiders. The team manages to end the Baron's tyranny in Markovia and moves to Gotham City, where they set up their headquarters (a former penthouse of Bruce Wayne / Batman). Tatsu becomes Halo's guardian and the two move into the penthouse.\nAt the same time, Takeo is still at large and follows Tatsu to Gotham City. He attacks her and Halo at their home, overpowers Tatsu and switches swords with her. He leaves for Tokyo with Tatsu on his tail. The Outsiders follow Tatsu and offer their help, despite her desire to leave them out of it. Takeo takes the sword to his master Oyabun, the godfather of the yakuza. Performing a specific ritual, the Oyabun and Takeo call forth the souls that inhabit the sword and give them corporeal form. Among them are legendary mercenaries and assassins, but also Maseo, who is now a slave to the Oyabun. Katana\u2014 and the Outsiders\u2014 have to fight them all, but she is ultimately able to reclaim the Soultaker from Maseo. She is forced to kill her husband, and then take the opportunity to kill Takeo, finally putting some of her ghosts to rest. Maseo and those killed a second time by the Soultaker pass on to their eternal rewards, leaving Takeo trapped in the sword in his place.\nAt one point the Outsiders split from Batman's leadership and take up residence in Markovia, where they are funded by its royal family. They become the official agents of Markovia and move to the city of Los Angeles and make their headquarters in the Markovian embassy, while retaining another secret HQ just off the shore. Although Tatsu left her past behind, the Oyabun return and send a tengu after her, with which he captures her. This mischievous spirit possesses her, and the Obayun is able to use her as an assassin. Her teammates Halo and Looker save her using other tengu and the tengu leader, who aids them in battle.\nFamily debt.\nAfter various tragic events surrounding Geo-Force's parents and Markovia, the team disbands. Nonetheless, the Outsiders are forced to defend Markovia against the Manhunters. During the fight, Halo is knocked into a coma, saving Katana's life. Bounded by \"giri-ninjo\" (a debt of honor even unto death), Tatsu leaves the team to tend to Halo's wounds. During that time, however, she is approached by a family member of her husband, who wishes her to accompany the Suicide Squad on a mission to destroy a large hoard of weapons that is about to be sold to the yakuza. She declines on the basis of her \"giri-ninjo\", but is willing to help if the need is truly desperate. That family member is later killed, and she goes after the killer, the Daichi-Doku's Oyabun (of which her relative is a member), who does not wish to see the weapons destroyed and tries to stop the Suicide Squad. During that adventure, she saves the life of Bronze Tiger and Manhunter (Mark Shaw), making them honor-bound to her by \"giri-ninjo\". Mark Shaw then assists her in taking down the Daichi-Doku's Oyabun. The Oyabun commits seppuku and Katana stands by as his \"second\", ready to help with a blade strike so he can keep his honor.\nReturning to the Outsiders.\nEventually, the Outsiders re-form and return to Markovia. Instead of a peaceful reunion, however, the team becomes trapped in a web of public relations that brand them outlaws. Although the charges are dropped eventually, the team is fractured. Halo dies from an assassin's blast but is reborn in a new body. This puts an immense strain on Tatsu's relationship with Halo. Katana joins a team with Geo-Force and Technocrat, taking the lead. She develops a mild romantic relationship with Joey Hong, an Asian associate of Guy Gardner. During a lone mission, her old mentor Tadashi sends Lady Shiva to claim Katana's Soultaker sword. Shiva confronts Katana, who is battling a gang of drug dealers. Katana slays many of them, but refuses to kill the youngest member, something Shiva insults her for. Shiva, renowned as the world's greatest assassin and fighter, kills Katana with her own sword. Katana returns to life after a trial by combat within her sword, which includes confronting many of the souls of the people she killed. Afterwards, she finds her old mentor and takes his life. The two splinter teams eventually reunite to take on more supernatural threats focused around the new team member Sebastian Faust. Katana and her friends suffer through the mental and physical tortures that Faust's father, Felix, put them through. Halo eventually frees them by destroying several of Felix's items of power. Soon after, the group breaks apart. After disbanding, Tatsu keeps her association with her old allies among the Outsiders (such as Black Lightning, Geo-Force, and Halo), and although they do not operate as an official team, they are always together during major crises. Her close ties to Batman also see her fighting by his side, several times, notably during the Imperiex crisis and the Day of Judgment incident when Hell invaded Earth. The main battle against the villain, the rogue angel Asmodel, with the power of the Spectre, takes place in New York. Katana personally protects Madame Xanadu who guards the rest of Asmodel's power with a mystical shield. Katana's protection of Xanadu is assisted by Doctor Occult, Phantom Stranger, and Alan Scott. Later, Katana assists Batman when he and Superman are declared outlaws. Katana is also called upon by Black Canary, together with other female mercenaries, to rescue Oracle from Senator Pullman. After Oracle is saved, Katana receives a card, together with the promise of a favor if required. Katana later returns to aid Oracle in issue #108 alongside dozens of other agents.\nNew Outsiders.\nLater Katana joins a new team of Outsiders after assisting them in defeating a more powerful Sabbac. That team consists of all new members, with the exception of Metamorpho who rejoins the team after Shift's demise. In \"Outsiders\" (vol. 3) #42, Katana dons a new costume, as she feels it inappropriate to wear a costume based on Japan's flag, since the country revoked her citizenship due to her membership with the controversial team. Later, Katana summons Sabbac to destroy Doctor Sivana's base with hellfire. Katana remains an active member of the Outsiders following the 2006 \"One Year Later\" continuity jump. Initially, the team is led by Nightwing, but later leadership transfers to Batman. Batman decides to 'test' Katana and the rest of the initial team to design a better team. Katana is Batman's first official recruit.\n\"Blackest Night\".\nWhile escorting Killer Croc to incarceration, the Outsiders' vehicle is demolished by Maseo, Yuki, and Reiko, who have all been revived as Black Lanterns. Katana, believing that she has been reunited with her lost family, lets her guard down, but is saved from death by her teammates. Realising the truth, she draws her sword, preparing to fight her undead husband. When Katana stabs Maseo, Soultaker reveals to her the Black Lanterns' full intentions. Her attacks soon prove to be completely ineffectual against Maseo, who is instead destroyed by an outpouring of light from Halo, who also destroyed Katana's undead children.\nNew 52.\nThe events of the 2011 \"Flashpoint\" storyline led to The New 52, a relaunch of all of DC Comics' monthly books, and a reboot to the DC Universe in-story continuity. In this new continuity, a newly healed Barbara Gordon returns to the Batgirl identity and takes a leave of absence from the Birds of Prey and suggests that Katana take her place full-time on the team.\nKatana joins Black Canary and Starling as the third member of the Birds of Prey. Katana is described as a lethal fighter who has spent the last year waging war on the yakuza clan that is responsible for the death of her husband. She is rumored to be mentally unstable due to her belief that her husband's soul, whom she often converses with in Japanese, resides in her sword.\nAfter a number of adventures with the Birds of Prey, Katana leaves the group to keep an eye on a cult of assassins known as the Daggers. She later accepts membership in Amanda Waller's new Justice League of America in exchange for information on her husband's murderers. When DC launched \"Justice League of America\", they also launched the solo series \"Katana\", focusing on Tatsu's abiding mission to track down her husband's killer. The series lasted 10 issues. After this, Katana made an appearance in \"Green Arrow\" (vol. 5) #27 (2014), where she is told by the mysterious blind man Magus that the death of her husband relates to the Outsiders, the society formed of various weapon clans and connected to Green Arrow's new origin story. The Soultaker is worked into the Green Arrow mythology as the totem of the Sword Clan, which has parallels in the Fist, Mask, Shield, Axe, Arrow, and Spear Clans. Representatives from each of these clans make up the Outsiders, a secret society dedicated towards ending global corruption, but which is itself largely corrupt. Katana joins the Outsiders. In \"Green Arrow: Futures End\" #1 (2014), set five years later in , Tatsu is shown to still be a member of the Outsiders, which has developed a grudging relationship with Green Arrow, who rejected leadership of the Arrow Clan in the main \"Green Arrow\" series five years before.\nDC Rebirth.\nAmanda Waller recruits Katana to be a co-captain of the Suicide Squad. Later, she joins the latest iteration of The Outsiders.\nPowers, abilities, and weapons.\nKatana is a highly proficient hand-to-hand combatant and swordswoman, having studied martial arts as a child and later being trained by the samurai Tadashi. From her time with the Outsiders and Batman, she develops strong tactical skills.\nKatana's Soultaker sword, along with its non-powered twin, was forged in the 14th century by Muramasa, whose swords are said to be cursed and make those who are evil commit evil acts. It sometimes takes the souls of those it kills, storing them inside the sword, where they can engage in limited communication with whoever wields it. These souls and spirits can be freely reborn/reincarnated by the means of a sacred ritual, under which they serve their summoner, even if it is against their will. Its cutting edge is sharp enough to rend the Dilustel skin of Captain Atom and Major Force. In The New 52, the Soultaker is established as being the 'Sword Totem' of the Outsiders, meaning like the other totems, it supposedly bestows immortality and enlightenment upon its wielder, although some like Green Arrow are skeptical of the literal truths of these statements.\nIn addition to the Soultaker, Katana often carries additional weaponry into battle.\nOther versions.\nAn alternate timeline version of Katana appears in \"Flashpoint\" as a member of the Amazons' Furies."}
{"id": "715297", "revid": "57939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715297", "title": "Solar System model", "text": "Solar System models, especially mechanical models, called \"orreries\", that illustrate the relative positions and motions of the planets and moons in the Solar System have been built for centuries. While they often showed relative sizes, these models were usually not built to scale. The enormous ratio of interplanetary distances to planetary diameters makes constructing a scale model of the Solar System a challenging task. As one example of the difficulty, the distance between the Earth and the Sun is almost 12,000 times the diameter of the Earth.\nIf the smaller planets are to be easily visible to the naked eye, large outdoor spaces are generally necessary, as is some means for highlighting objects that might otherwise not be noticed from a distance. The Boston Museum of Science had placed bronze models of the planets in major public buildings, all on similar stands with interpretive labels. For example, the model of Jupiter was located in the cavernous South Station waiting area. The properly-scaled, basket-ball-sized model is 1.3 miles (2.14 km) from the model Sun which is located at the museum, graphically illustrating the immense empty space in the Solar System. \nThe objects in such large models do not move. Traditional orreries often did move, and some used clockworks to display the relative speeds of objects accurately. These can be thought of as being correctly scaled in \"time\", instead of \"distance\".\nPermanent true scale models.\nMany towns and institutions have built outdoor scale models of the Solar System. Here is a table comparing these models with the actual system.\nOther models of the Solar System: historic, temporary, virtual, or dual-scale.\nSeveral sets of geocaching caches have been laid out as Solar System models."}
{"id": "715299", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715299", "title": "Lincoln Park", "text": "Lincoln Park is a park along Lake Michigan on the North Side of Chicago, Illinois. Named after US president Abraham Lincoln, it is the city's largest public park and stretches for from Grand Avenue (500 N), on the south, to near Ardmore Avenue (5800 N) on the north, just north of the DuSable Lake Shore Drive terminus at Hollywood Avenue. Two museums and a zoo are located in the oldest part of the park between North Avenue (1600 N) and Diversey Parkway (2800 N) in the eponymous neighborhood. Farther to the north, the park is characterized by parkland, beaches, recreational areas, nature reserves, and harbors. To the south, there is a more narrow strip of beaches east of Lake Shore Drive, almost to downtown. With 20 million visitors per year, Lincoln Park is the second-most-visited city park in the United States, behind Manhattan's Central Park.\nThe park's recreational facilities include baseball/softball fields, basketball courts, beach volleyball courts, cricket pitches, football/soccer fields, a golf course, lacrosse fields, rugby pitches, tennis courts, volleyball courts, field houses, a target archery field, a skate park, and a driving range.\nThe park also features several harbors with boating facilities, as well as public beaches for swimming, and nature reserves. There are landscaped gardens, public art, bird refuges, a zoo, the Lincoln Park Conservatory, the Chicago History Museum, the Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum, the Alfred Caldwell Lily Pool, and a theater on the lake with regular outdoor performances held during the summer.\nHistory.\nIn 1860, Lake Park (earlier, Cemetery Park), the precursor of today's park, was established by the city on the lands just to the north of the city's burial ground. Five years later, on June 12, 1865, the park was renamed to honor the recently assassinated President Abraham Lincoln.\nAdded to the National Register of Historic Places in 1994, part of the oldest section of today's Lincoln Park near North Avenue began its existence as the City Cemetery in 1843. This was subdivided into a Potter's Field, Catholic cemetery, Jewish cemetery, and the general City Cemetery. These cemeteries were the only cemeteries in the Chicago area until 1859. In 1852, David Kennison, who is said to have been born in 1736, died and was buried in City Cemetery. Another notable burial in the cemetery was Chicago Mayor James Curtiss, whose body was lost when the cemetery was added to the park.\nThroughout the late 1850s, there was discussion of closing the cemetery or abandoning it because of health concerns. In fall 1858, Dr. John H. Rauch MD suggested that the burial grounds were a health risk, which \"might serve extremely well for plantations of grove and forest trees\" that would be \"useful and ornamental to the city.\" The idea was dropped during the Civil War, but revived by Dr. Rauch after the war ended.\nBy 1864, the city council had decided to add all the cemetery lands north of North Avenue to the park by relocating the graves. The cemetery sections south of North Avenue were also relocated but this land was left for residential development. An estimated 35,000 people total were buried in the cemetery sections of the park, and the plan required the removal of these graves to other newly opened cemeteries further from the city and lake. To this day, the Couch mausoleum can still be seen as the most visible reminder of the history as a cemetery, standing amidst trees, behind the Chicago History Museum. Ira Couch, who is interred in the tomb, was one of Chicago's earliest innkeepers, opening the Tremont House in 1835. Couch is believed to not be the only person interred in the old burial ground in Lincoln Park. A plaque placed nearby states that \"the remains of six Couch family members and one family friend are in the tomb.\" Partially due to the destruction of the Chicago Fire of wooden burial markers, it was difficult to identify many of the remains. As recently as 1998, construction in the park revealed more bodies left over in the nineteenth century burial ground.\nAnother large and notable group of graves relocated from the site of today's Lincoln Park were those of approximately 4,000 Confederate prisoners of war who died at Camp Douglas. Many prisoners perished between 1862 and 1865 as a result of the poor condition they were in when taken on the battlefield, or of disease and privation existing at the Federal prison. Although the camp was located south of downtown Chicago, near the stockyards, the remains were originally interred at the site of today's Lincoln Park. Today, their gravesites may be found at Oak Woods Cemetery in the southern part of Chicago. A one-acre (4,000 m2) mass grave and a monument erected by Southerners and Chicago friends in 1895 memorializes these Southerners whose earthly remnants remain in the North. Author George Levy believes that remains of many of the Confederate prisoners are still to be found beneath what are currently baseball fields, the former site of the potter's field.\nFrom the 1860s through the 1950s the park expanded south and then north along of Chicago's Lakefront. (See reference notes 1, 2 and 3). The establishment of public parkland along all of Chicago's Lakefront was a central tenet of the 1909 Burnham Plan for the development of Chicago. From 1912 until 1991, the park contained the Lincoln Park Gun Club.\nAnother aspect of park history were the Young Lords Lincoln Park neighborhood sit ins and take-overs of institutions under the leadership of Jose Cha Cha Jimenez, protesting the displacement of Latinos by Mayor Richard J. Daley's urban renewal policies. \nIt was also the scene of violent events that took place during the 1968 Democratic National Convention. These events transpired around the convention center, Grant Park, Old Town, and the park.\nZoo, conservatory and museums.\nZoo.\nLincoln Park is well known for Lincoln Park Zoo, a free zoo that is open year-round. Lincoln Park Zoo is home to lions, penguins, gorillas, reptiles, monkeys, and other species totaling to nearly 1,250 animals. The Pritzker Family Children's Zoo includes various North American wildlife and an indoor play area. Farm-in-the-Zoo is a representation of a working farm with cows, goats, ponies, pigs, and chickens; at select times, visitors can feed and interact with the animals at Farm-in-the-Zoo. In 2010, the Zoo transformed the South Pond into Nature Boardwalk, a managed habitat with prairie and wetland features.\nConservatory.\nThe Lincoln Park Conservatory offers year-round displays of plants from many different climates around the world. Today's conservatory was built in stages from 1890 to 1895. It consists of a vestibule, four display halls and fifteen propagating and growing houses. The vestibule and Palm House were built and opened to the public in 1892 and contain giant palms and rubber trees, including a fiddle-leaf rubber tree planted in 1891. In the Palm House, one can also find Garden Figure, a sculpture by Frederick Hibbard. The Fern Room or Fernery was opened in 1895. It contains plants of the forest floor, primarily a vast collection of ferns. The Tropical Room was originally called the stove house. Opened in 1895, it contained an assortment of tropical plants suspended from bark-covered walls. It is now called the Orchid Room and has a collection of approximately 25,000 natural species. The Display House is used for seasonal flower and plant exhibits. A docent program run by the Chicago Park District and Lincoln Park Conservancy provides free tours of the Conservatory and its outdoor gardens from 1\u20134 p.m. on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays and from 9 to Noon on Saturdays.\nLily Pool.\nLocated on Fullerton Parkway between Stockton and Cannon Drives, the Alfred Caldwell Lily Pool is an historic example of Prairie School landscape architecture. The Lily Pool was listed on the National Register of Historic Places and as a National Historic Landmark on February 17, 2006. The Lily Pool had originally been built to cultivate tropical water lilies in 1889. In the 1930s, the Works Progress Administration hired landscape architect Alfred Caldwell to redesign the pool in the Prairie School style. From 1998 to 2002, the Lily Pool underwent an extensive restoration by the Lincoln Park Conservancy and the Chicago Park District, which earned the site its historic designations, and renamed the site after Alfred Caldwell. The Lily Pool is open seasonally from mid-April to mid-November from 7:30\u00a0a.m. to the earlier of dusk or 7:30\u00a0p.m. every day. A docent program run by the Chicago Park District and Lincoln Park Conservancy offers free tours from 1\u20134 p.m. on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays, and from 9 \u2013 Noon on Saturdays during operating season.\nNature Museum.\nFirst established in 1857, the \"Chicago Academy of Sciences\" opened its most recent facility, the Nature Museum, in 1999. The academy's previous museum building, the Matthew Laflin Memorial Building, was the Park District's first museum in the parks. The museum's exhibits include displays about the ecological history of the Illinois region, a live butterfly house, and a green home demonstration. The butterfly house features over 200 species of exotic butterflies. The museum also offers educational programs for adults and children.\nHistory Museum.\nLocated at Clark Street and North Avenue, the Chicago History Museum (formerly the Chicago Historical Society) is dedicated to Chicago's human history. Perhaps among its most well-known possessions are Abraham Lincoln's deathbed and several furniture pieces from the room where he died in the Petersen House in Washington, D.C., as well as clothing he and wife Mary Todd Lincoln wore the evening of his assassination. The museum also houses Chicago's most important collection of materials related to local history from the Great Chicago Fire to the Young Lords in Lincoln Park. In addition to the exhibits, the museum continues to house an extensive research library which includes books and other published materials, manuscripts, paintings, sculptures, and photos.\nRecreational areas.\nFacilities.\nLincoln Park runs from north to south through five Chicago community areas: Edgewater, Uptown, Lake View, Lincoln Park, and Near North. Along its seven-mile (11\u00a0km) stretch, Lincoln Park has many specialized spaces for recreational activities. The Park contains playgrounds; basketball, beach volleyball, tennis, volleyball courts, boating facilities; beaches; swimming; field and beach houses; running and bike paths; playing fields and pitches; archery, baseball, cricket, football, lacrosse, rugby, soccer, softball; a golf course; a driving range; skate park, and areas for horseback riding. Near Montrose Point is Cricket Hill, one of few sledding hills available in Chicago parks.\nBeaches.\nThere are seven public beaches for swimming, sunbathing, and beach volleyball along the park's 7-mile shoreline that are guarded during the summer months. The beaches from north to south are, Thorndale, Hollywood, and Foster in Edgewater; Montrose in Uptown; North Avenue in Lincoln Park; and Oak Street and Ohio in Near North. The first City of Chicago public beach, North Avenue Beach, opened in Lincoln Park in 1895. The Lincoln Park Passerelle, a footbridge, connected to the beach in 1940 over the newly constructed Lake Shore Drive.\nGolf.\nThe Waveland Avenue Golf Course (now Sydney R. Marovitz Golf Course) in the Uptown and Lakeview, Chicago neighborhoods section of the park provides a lakeside setting for the game. () Known for its challenging narrow fairways, it offers nine tees on a par-36 course. Further south, inland of Lakeshore Drive, is a driving range and miniature golf course.\nBoating.\nThere are three harbors in the Park providing marina and docking facilities for boaters: north to south, they are Montrose in Uptown, Lakeview's Belmont Harbor, and Diversey Harbor in the Lakeview and the Lincoln Park Neighborhoods. Montrose Harbor provides 630 dock facilities and is home to the Chicago Corinthian Yacht Club. Belmont Harbor provides 730 moorings, a fuel dock and a ship store. The Chicago Yacht Club has a Belmont station and the Belmont Yacht Club is located here. Diversey Harbor has 714 moorings and the Diversey Yacht Club provides a fueling dock. There is also a public launch at Diversey and the park also has rowing, sculling, and crewing channels.\nChicago Lakefront Trail.\nThe Chicago Lakefront Trail (abbreviated as LFT) is an 18-mile multi-use path in Chicago along the coast of Lake Michigan. It is popular with cyclists and joggers. It is designed to promote bicycle commuting. From north to south, it runs through Lincoln Park, Grant Park, Burnham Park and Jackson Park.\nWildlife.\nNorth Pond.\nThe North Pond Nature Sanctuary (), located between Fullerton, Diversey, Stockton and Cannon, is a ten-acre pond that has become an important wildlife area. Historically the site was a dune, then a dumping ground, and an ornamental pond; it was converted in 1999\u20132000 into a natural area with a littoral zone that greatly improved the water quality by re-establishing native Midwestern ecology. The upland restoration of prairie, savanna, and woodland plants has included only top quality native species such as little bluestem, sky-blue aster, nodding wild onion, side-oats grama, butterfly weed, purple prairie clover, rough blazing star, wild quinine, prairie phlox, coneflowers, false dragonhead, northern prairie dropseed, showy goldenrod, rattlesnake master, shooting star, and wild bergamot. The North Pond Nature Sanctuary is notable as the site where Mayor Richard M. Daley and the US Fish and Wildlife Service signed an Urban Conservation Treaty for Migratory Birds in April 2004, making the city eligible for federal funds to restore habitat for the lakefront migratory pathway for birds.\nRestoration with native plants has drawn a great diversity of wildlife to this urban pond including many species of birds, turtles, frogs, and even a few beavers. Great blue herons, black-crowned night herons, green herons, mallards, wood ducks, song sparrows and woodpeckers can regularly be spotted at the North Pond Nature Sanctuary.\nAnimal sanctuaries.\nFurther north in the park, in the Lake View neighborhood (3600 N), there is the Bill Jarvis Migratory Bird Sanctuary (; formerly, Lincoln Park Addison Migratory Bird Sanctuary). First landscaped and constructed with limited public access in the 1920s, under the leadership of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, its spring is supplied with city water to mimic a natural lake marsh environment, with attendant forest and meadow environments.\nMost of its area is entirely fenced around to preserve the habitat from human encroachment. Instead, a nature trail and a viewing platform are at its surrounding perimeter. During the 1940s, its Park District caretakers lost funding and the site was padlocked. In 1968, the entire site was almost bulldozed for golf course development but its Lake View neighbors, including Bill Jarvis, led a successful campaign to save and restore it. Today it hosts more than 150 species of birds, including six species of herons, like the black crowned night heron; wood ducks; woodcock; hawks; yellow-billed cuckoos; hummingbirds; thrushes; vireos; 34 species of warblers; and 18 native species of sparrows. In addition, small mammals such as rabbit, opossum, raccoon, and occasionally fox and coyote make their home there.\nIn the Uptown neighborhood (4400 N; ), there is the Montrose Point Bird Sanctuary (including \"The Magic Hedge\"). During the Cold War, Montrose point, which juts out into Lake Michigan, was used by the United States Army as a Nike missile base. The Army camouflaged their missile launchers and barracks behind honeysuckle hedges. When the Army left in the 1970s, bird watchers noticed how the honeysuckle attracted birds. They successfully lobbied the park district for a new preserve. After extensive replanting, the site supports woodland, tall prairie, and lake dune habitat that annually attracts tens of thousands of migratory birds of more than 300 different species. The Uptown Natural Area, opened in 2022, features nature trails through six acres of native prairie and savanna.\nPublic art.\nLincoln Park is known for its statuary, being referred to as \"Chicago's outdoor Statuary Hall\" by WBEZ. ' is a famous standing Lincoln statue in Lincoln Park by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, the same sculptor who created ' in Grant Park. Replicas of Lincoln Park's \"Standing Lincoln\" can be found at Lincoln's tomb, Springfield and in Parliament Square, London. The statue is located at Dearborn Street and North Avenue. It was fully restored in 1989 by the Lincoln Park Conservancy's Adopt-A-Monument Program, and 8,200 square feet of formal gardens were added in front of the monument.\nThe only other person memorialized in statue in both Grant and Lincoln parks is Alexander Hamilton; the statue of Hamilton was sculpted by John Angel. Just as there is an in Grant Park, there is a large memorial to Ulysses S. Grant in Lincoln Park overlooking Cannon Drive. The sculpture was created in 1891 by Louis Rebisso.\nThe statue of Hans Christian Andersen by Johannes Gelert (1896) on Stockton Drive near Webster Avenue provides a tribute to the Danish storyteller. The Eugene Field Memorial (1922) designed by Edward McCartan remembers the \"Chicago Daily News\" columnist and poet who wrote \"Little Boy Blue\" and \"Winken, Blinken, and Nod\". William Ordway Partridge's statue of William Shakespeare (1894) provides a third great story-teller in Lincoln Park. This seated Shakespeare includes a lap for children to climb onto. A bust of Sir Georg Solti, a conductor of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, was also situated in the Lincoln Park Conservatory's formal garden until its relocation to Grant Park in 2006. Statues honoring the German poets Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller can also be found in Lincoln Park. The large Goethe statue is located near Diversey Parkway and Stockton Drive. The smaller Schiller statue is located near the western entrance to the zoo. Cyrus Edwin Dallin's 1890 \"A Signal of Peace\" is exhibited at the park.\nAt Addison Street stands a totem pole depicting Kwanusila the Thunderbird. A statue of John Peter Altgeld (1915), the nineteenth-century Illinois Governor who pardoned the men convicted in the Haymarket affair bombing, can be seen just south of Diversey. This statue was created by Gutzon Borglum and unveiled on September 6 (Labor Day), 1915.\nIn media.\nThe 1980 film \"My Bodyguard\" contains several scenes filmed in Lincoln Park.\nPhil Ochs' song \"William Butler Yeats Visits Lincoln Park and Escapes Unscathed\", featured on his 1969 \"Rehearsals for Retirement\" album, is about his experience walking through the park during the 1968 Democratic National Convention protests.\nOther.\nIn 2004 the Lincoln Park Lagooners were inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame."}
{"id": "715300", "revid": "73757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715300", "title": "96 Trent FM", "text": ""}
{"id": "715303", "revid": "1310469626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715303", "title": "D. G. Anderson", "text": "Dominis Garrida Anderson (born February 10, 1930), also popularly known as D.G. Anderson and Andy Anderson, is an American politician, real estate developer and businessman from Honolulu, Hawai'i. His ethnic background is diverse with Hawaiian, Norwegian, English, Scottish, and Portuguese ancestries.\nAnderson previously owned John Dominis Restaurant in Kaka'ako, which he built in 1974 and sold in 2005 to Japan-based owner Ocean Investments, LLC. He built and later sold a second John Dominis Restaurant in Newport Beach, California. In the earlier points of his life, he owned the largest camera shop in Hawai'i (Waterhouse Photo), the largest hi-fi store (Gems in Hawaii), the largest record store in both Hawai'i and Phoenix, Arizona, a toy company called Anekona Toys and a ranching supply store in Kona, Hawai'i. Anderson currently owns Michel's at The Colony Surf, a premier oceanfront restaurant in Waik\u012bk\u012b, dubbed as the \"Most Romantic Restaurant\" by the TV series Lifestyle of the Rich and Famous. He also owns commercial real estate properties both in Hawai'i and mainland USA.\nAnderson's real estate development projects include The Bluffs in Waimea, consisting of 23 lots on a lush hillside overlooking the ocean between Waimea bay and Hale'iwa, and Sunset Beach Colony, consisting of 29 subdivided parcels on beachfront 19.1 acre property fronting Velzyland and Kauna'oa Bay. Both projects are located on the North Shore on the island of Oahu. Anderson also owned Waimea Country Club, an 18-hole, 6,646-yard, par-72 course, 239 acre land on the Island of Hawai'i, until it was sold in 2012.\nAnderson was a member of the Hawai'i State House of Representatives from 1962 to 1966. He was a member of the Hawai'i State Senate from 1967 to 1983. In 1968 and 1972, Anderson ran unsuccessfully to become the Republican Mayor of Honolulu. Anderson served as managing director of Honolulu (under Mayor Frank Fasi) from January 2, 1985, to July 3, 1986. In 1982 and 1986, as Chairman of the Hawai'i Republican Party, he ran for Governor of Hawai'i, losing to incumbent George Ariyoshi and John D. Waihe\u02bbe respectively. In 2002, Anderson joined the Hawai'i Democratic Party and ran for the party's nomination for governor, losing to incumbent Lieutenant Governor Mazie K. Hirono."}
{"id": "715308", "revid": "36435098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715308", "title": "Whirlpool Galaxy", "text": "The Whirlpool Galaxy, also known as Messier 51a (M51a) or NGC 5194, is an interacting grand-design spiral galaxy with a Seyfert 2 active galactic nucleus. It lies in the constellation Canes Venatici, and was the first galaxy to be classified as a spiral galaxy. It is 31 million lightyears (9.5 megaparsecs/Mpc) away and in diameter.\nThe galaxy and its companion, NGC 5195, are easily observed by amateur astronomers, and the two galaxies may be seen with binoculars. The Whirlpool Galaxy has been extensively observed by professional astronomers, who study it and its pair with dwarf galaxy NGC 5195 to understand galaxy structure (particularly structure associated with the spiral arms) and galaxy interactions. Its pair with NGC 5195 is among the most famous and relatively close interacting systems, and thus is a favorite subject of galaxy interaction models.\nDiscovery.\nWhat later became known as the Whirlpool Galaxy was discovered on October 13, 1773, by Charles Messier while hunting for objects that could confuse comet hunters, and was designated in Messier's catalogue as M51. William Parsons, 3rd Earl of Rosse, employing a reflecting telescope at Birr Castle, Ireland, found that the Whirlpool possessed a spiral structure, the first \"nebula\" to be known to have one. These \"spiral nebulae\" were not recognized as galaxies until Edwin Hubble was able to observe Cepheid variables in some of these spiral nebulae, which provided evidence that they were so far away that they must be entirely separate galaxies.\nThe advent of radio astronomy and subsequent radio images of M51 unequivocally demonstrated that the Whirlpool and its companion galaxy are indeed interacting. Sometimes the designation M51 is used to refer to the pair of galaxies, in which case the individual galaxies may be referred to as M51a (NGC 5194) and M51b (NGC 5195).\nVisual appearance.\nDeep in the constellation Canes Venatici, M51 is often found by finding the easternmost star of the Big Dipper, Alkaid, and going 3.5\u00b0 southwest. Its declination is, rounded, +47\u00b0, making it circumpolar (never setting) for observers above the 43rd parallel north; it reaches a high altitude throughout this hemisphere making it an accessible object from the early hours in November through to the end of May, after which observation is more coincidental in modest latitudes with the risen sun (due to the Sun approaching to and receding from its right ascension, specifically figuring in Gemini, just to the north).\nM51 is visible through binoculars under dark sky conditions, and it can be resolved in detail with modern amateur telescopes. When seen through a 100\u00a0mm telescope the basic outlines of M51 (limited to 5\u00d76') and its companion are visible. Under dark skies, and with a moderate eyepiece through a 150\u00a0mm telescope, M51's intrinsic spiral structure can be detected. With larger (&gt;300\u00a0mm) instruments under dark sky conditions, the various spiral bands are apparent with HII regions visible, and M51 can be seen to be attached to M51B.\nAs is usual for galaxies, the true extent of its structure can only be gathered from inspecting photographs; long exposures reveal a large nebula extending beyond the visible circular appearance. In 1984, thanks to the high-speed detector\u2014the so-called image-photon-counting-system (IPCS)\u2014developed jointly by the CNRS Laboratoire d'Astronomie Spatiald (L.A.S.-CNRS) and the Observatoire de Haute Provence (O.H.P.) along with the particularly nice visibility offered by the Canada-France-Hawaii-Telescope (C.F.H.T.) 3.60m Cassegrain focus on the summit of Mauna Kea in Hawaii, Hua et al. detected the double component of the very nucleus of the Whirlpool Galaxy.\nIn January 2005 the Hubble Heritage Project constructed a 11,477\u00a0\u00d7\u00a07,965-pixel composite image (shown in the infobox above) of M51 using Hubble's ACS instrument. The image highlights the galaxy's spiral arms, and shows detail into some of the structures inside the arms.\nIn 2022, the James Webb Space Telescope observed the galaxy using MIRI for the Feedback in Emerging extrAgalactic Star clusTers (JWST-FEAST) project.\nProperties.\nThe Whirlpool Galaxy lies at a distance of 23 to 31 million light-years from Earth. Based on the 1991 measurement by the Third Reference Catalogue of Bright Galaxies using the D25 isophote at the B-band, the Whirlpool Galaxy has a diameter of . Overall the galaxy is about 88% the size of the Milky Way. Its mass is estimated to be 160 billion solar masses, or around 10.3% of the mass of Milky Way Galaxy. It's believed to be an estimated 400 million years old.\nA black hole, once thought to be surrounded by a ring of dust, but now believed to be partially occluded by dust instead, exists at the heart of the spiral. A pair of ionization cones extend from the active galactic nucleus.\nSpiral structure.\nThe Whirlpool Galaxy has two, very prominent spiral arms that wind clockwise. One arm deviates from a constant angle significantly. The pronounced spiral structure of the Whirlpool Galaxy is believed to be the result of the close interaction between it and its companion galaxy NGC 5195, which may have passed through the main disk of M51 about 500 to 600 million years ago. In this proposed scenario, NGC 5195 came from behind M51 through the disk towards the observer and made another disk crossing as recently as 50 to 100 million years ago until it is where we observe it to be now, slightly behind M51.\nTidal features.\nAs a result of the Whirlpool Galaxy's interaction with NGC 5195, a variety of tidal features have been created. The largest of these features is the so-called Northwest plume, which extends out to from the galaxy's center. This plume is uniform in color and likely originated from the Whirlpool Galaxy itself due to having diffuse gas. Adjacent to it are two other plumes that have a slightly bluer color, referred to as the Western plumes due to their location.\nIn 2015, a study discovered two new tidal features caused by the interaction between the Whirlpool Galaxy and NGC 5195, the \"Northeast plume\" and the \"South plume\". The study remarks that a simulation that takes into account only one passage of NGC 5195 into the Whirlpool Galaxy will fail to produce an analogue to the Northeast tail. In contrast, the multiple-passage simulations made by Salo and Laurikainen et al. reproduce the northeast plume.\nStar formation.\nThe central region of M51 appears to be undergoing a period of enhanced star formation. The present efficiency of star formation, defined as the ratio of mass of new stars to the mass of star-forming gas, is only ~1%, quite comparable to the global value for the Milky Way and other galaxies. It is estimated that the current high rate of star formation can last no more than another 100 million years or so.\nSimilarly, the spiral arms are experiencing high levels of star formation, as well as the space along the arms.\nTransient events.\nThree supernovae have been observed in the Whirlpool Galaxy:\nIn 1994, SN 1994I was observed in the Whirlpool Galaxy. It was classified as Type Ic, indicating that its progenitor star was very massive and had already shed much of its mass, and its brightness peaked at apparent magnitude 12.91.\nIn June 2005, Wolfgang Kloehr discovered the Type II supernova SN 2005cs in the Whirlpool Galaxy, peaking at apparent magnitude 14.\nOn 31 May 2011 a Type II supernova was detected in the Whirlpool Galaxy, peaking at magnitude 12.1. This supernova, designated SN 2011dh, showed a spectrum much bluer than average, with P Cygni profiles, which indicate rapidly expanding material, in its hydrogen-Balmer lines. The progenitor was probably a yellow supergiant and not a red or blue supergiant, which are thought to be the most common supernova progenitors.\nOn 22 January 2019, a supernova impostor, designated AT 2019abn, was discovered in Messier 51. The transient was later identified as a luminous red nova. The progenitor star was detected in archival Spitzer Space Telescope infrared images. No object could be seen at the position of the transient in archival Hubble images, indicating that the progenitor star was heavily obstructed by interstellar dust. 2019abn peaked at magnitude 17, reaching an intrinsic brightness of formula_1.\nChemical composition.\nSeveral molecules have been detected inside the Whirlpool Galaxy. So far, hydrogen cyanide (HCN), hydrogen isocyanide (HNC), aldehyde (HCO+) and diazenylium (N2H+) have been detected throughout the Whirlpool galaxy from the center to the spiral arms. However isocyanic acid (HCNO) and ethynal have only been detected within 1 kiloparsec of the galactic center.\nPlanet candidate.\nIn September 2020, the detection by the Chandra X-ray Observatory of a candidate exoplanet, named M51-ULS-1b, orbiting the high-mass X-ray binary M51-ULS-1 in this galaxy was announced. If confirmed, it would be the first known instance of an extragalactic planet: a planet outside the Milky Way. The planet candidate was detected by eclipses of the X-ray source (XRS), which consists of a stellar remnant (either a neutron star or a black hole) and a massive star, likely a B-type supergiant. The planet would be slightly smaller than Saturn and orbit at a distance of some tens of astronomical units.\nCompanion.\nNGC 5195 (also known as Messier 51b or M51b) is a dwarf galaxy that is interacting with the Whirlpool Galaxy (also known as M51a or NGC 5194). Both galaxies are found in the constellation Canes Venatici, some 31 million light-years away. These two galaxies are among the most extensively researched pairs of interacting galaxies.\nGalaxy group information.\nThe Whirlpool Galaxy is the brightest galaxy in the M51 Group, a small group of galaxies that also includes M63 (the Sunflower Galaxy), NGC 5023, and NGC 5229. This small group may actually be a subclump at the southeast end of a large, elongated group that includes the M101 Group and the NGC 5866 Group, although most group identification methods and catalogs identify the three groups as separate entities."}
{"id": "715310", "revid": "37386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715310", "title": "Messier Object 51", "text": ""}
{"id": "715312", "revid": "45137862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715312", "title": "M51", "text": "M51 or M-51 may refer to:"}
{"id": "715313", "revid": "1185136699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715313", "title": "NGC 5194", "text": ""}
{"id": "715317", "revid": "51081776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715317", "title": "Stargate (1981 video game)", "text": "Stargate is a 1981 horizontally scrolling shooter video game developed by Vid Kidz and published by Williams Electronics for arcades. Designed by Eugene Jarvis and Larry DeMar, it is a sequel to \"Defender\", which was released earlier in the year. It was the first of only three productions by Vid Kidz, an independent development house formed by Jarvis and DeMar. Some home ports of \"Stargate\" were renamed Defender II for legal reasons.\nThis sequel adds new ships to the alien fleet, including Firebombers, Yllabian Space Guppies, Dynamos, Phreds, Big Reds, Munchies and Space Hums. The Defender ship is now equipped with an Inviso cloaking device, which renders the ship invulnerable when activated, but has a limited charge. A Stargate transports the ship to any humanoid in trouble. There are two special stages: the Yllabian Dogfight, first appearing at wave 5 and recurring every 10 waves; and the Firebomber Showdown, first appearing at wave 10 and also recurring every 10 waves.\nGameplay.\nThe player flies a small spaceship above a scrolling, mountainous landscape which wraps around, so flying constantly in one direction will eventually return to the starting point. The player's ship flies in front of the landscape and does not contact it.\nThe terrain is inhabited by a small number of humanoids. Enemy ships fly overhead. The goal is to destroy the enemies to prevent the humans from being captured.\nThe player is armed with a beam-like weapon which can be fired rapidly in a long horizontal line ahead of the spaceship, and also has a limited supply of smart bombs, which can destroy every enemy on the screen. The player also has a limited supply of \"Inviso\" cloaking energy, which makes the ship invisible, and able to destroy any ships it comes in contact with.\nAt the top of the screen is a mini-map, which displays the positions of all aliens and humans on the landscape.\nAliens.\nThere are fifteen types of aliens:\nHumanoids.\nThe game starts with ten Humanoids inhabiting the planet. Landers will attempt to capture and fuse with them during play.\nTo rescue a Humanoid from capture, the player must kill the Lander holding it while it is in the air, causing the Humanoid to drop. At low height Humanoids can survive the drop on their own, but if the Lander is killed at too high an altitude, the player must catch the Humanoid with their ship and return him to the ground, otherwise he will not survive the drop. A player's ship can carry as many Humanoids as are alive on that level.\nThe Humanoids can be killed by the player's weapon just as easily as the aliens can, so careful aim is required when firing near them.\nIf all Humanoids are killed, the entire planet explodes, leaving the player in empty space. This also has the unfortunate effect of turning every Lander into a Mutant, making the player's job very difficult.\nEvery time the player completes 5 waves of enemies (i.e. at wave 6, 11, 16 and so forth), the planet (and all its 10 Humanoids) is restored.\nScoring.\nAs well as the points gained by killing aliens, scores are also awarded as follows:\nBy default, the player receives an extra life, smart bomb, and Inviso energy every 10,000 points. This amount can be overridden when the machine is in maintenance mode. As in \"Defender\", at 9,990,000, those bonuses are given for every enemy destroyed.\nControls.\nThe control system of \"Stargate\" expands on that of \"Defender\". The game has a joystick to move up and down, a Reverse button to toggle the player's horizontal direction, and a Thrust button to move in that direction. There is also a Fire button for shooting, a button to activate a Smart Bomb, a button to turn on the Inviso cloaking device, and a Hyperspace button which teleports the player to a random position in the level, at the risk of either exploding upon rematerialization, or materializing onto an enemy or enemy projectile, and then exploding.\nThe Stargate.\nA central feature of the gamefield is the Stargate itself, represented by a series of concentric rectangles. The operation of the Stargate depends on the current game conditions.\nIf a Lander is in the process of abducting a Humanoid, flying into the Stargate will teleport the ship to where the Humanoid is under attack. If more than one Humanoid is being captured, the ship will be taken to the Lander that is closest to the top of the screen. If a Humanoid is being captured while a Humanoid is falling to the ground, the ship will be taken to the Humanoid that is falling to the ground. Otherwise, entering the Stargate will teleport the ship to the opposite side of the planet.\nIf the ship is carrying at least four humanoids, entering the Stargate will \"warp\" the game ahead three levels. This allows more advanced players to skip the easier lower levels and also get a great number of points, extra lives, smart bombs, and inviso energy. Warping is only allowed in the first 10 levels, and can be avoided (if desired) by flying into the Stargate in reverse, allowing a player to continue on the current level.\nPorts.\nPorts of \"Stargate\" were being developed for the Atari 5200 console and the Atari 8-bit computers by Atari programmer Steve Baker in 1984, but were not released. The game was also ported to the Commodore 64, Apple II, the Amiga, Atari ST and IBM PC.\nThe Nintendo Entertainment System port developed by HAL Laboratory (renamed \"Star Gate\", and later named \"Defender II\" for U.S. release) has some elements in common with their \"Millipede\" and \"Joust\" ports, as well as \"Mike Tyson's Punch-Out!!\", all of which were released around the same time. In particular, the title jingles for the NES versions of \"Millipede,\" \"Stargate\", and \"Joust\" are almost identical; the music at the opening of the NES version of \"Stargate\" is a longer version of the opponent entrance music from \"Punch-Out!!\", and the music that plays on the intermission screen between waves is the same as the screen after a loss in \"Punch-Out!!\".\nName change.\nThe \"Defender II\" name was used in some home releases due to legal issues (according to the bonus material for \"Midway Arcade Treasures\", Williams wanted to \"make sure they could own the trademark\" on the \"Defender\" name). The name \"Defender II\" has been used on many home ports and game compilation appearances, but not in arcades. The Atari 2600 port was originally sold as \"Stargate\", but was renamed \"Defender II\" for a later re-release. The Amiga and Atari ST ports were developed by Jeff Minter and includes \"Defender\", \"Stargate\", and \"Defender II\".\nReception.\n\"Computer and Video Games\" scored the Atari VCS version 89% in 1989. In 1996, \"GamesMaster\" ranked the arcade version 82nd on their list of the \"Top 100 Games of All Time\".\nLegacy.\nIn July 2000, Midway licensed \"Defender II\", along with other Williams Electronics games, to Shockwave for use in an online applet entitled \"Shockwave Arcade Collection\", to demonstrate the power of the Shockwave web content platform. The conversion was created by Digital Eclipse. This port is no longer available.\nAs with \"Defender II\", the game is included in the 2012 compilation \"Midway Arcade Origins\".\nIn popular culture.\nA \"Stargate\" arcade cabinet is featured in the \"NewsRadio\" episode \"Arcade\", in which the game is referred to as \"Stargate Defender\". Eugene Jarvis, the game's creator, had a cameo role in said episode as \"Delivery Guy #3\".\n\"Stargate\" and \"Defender\" are featured as plot points in the podcast \"Rabbits\"."}
{"id": "715330", "revid": "3140036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715330", "title": "Qesariyya", "text": ""}
{"id": "715331", "revid": "28779459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715331", "title": "Ira Coleman Batman", "text": "Ira Coleman Batman (January 20, 1862 \u2013 April 10, 1934) was an American jurist and politician. He was a member of the Indiana state legislature and was a judge of the Indiana Appellate Court from 1916 to 1924. The historic Batman House in Bloomington, Indiana was built for him circa 1890.\nBiography.\nBorn in Lawrence County, Indiana, Batman taught school and then went to Indiana University. He then practiced law in Bloomington, Indiana and was the city attorney. He then served in the Indiana House of Representatives, in 1904, and was a Republican. From 1917 to 1925, he served on the Indiana Appellate Court. He died in Bloomington, Indiana."}
{"id": "715332", "revid": "28501110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715332", "title": "Alex Escobar", "text": "Alexander Jos\u00e9 Escobar [ess-COE-bar] (born September 6, 1978) is a Venezuelan former Major League Baseball outfielder.\nCareer.\nEscobar was signed by the Mets as a non-draft amateur free agent in and made his debut in . At the end of the season, he was traded to the Indians as part of an eight-player deal that sent Roberto Alomar to the Mets. Escobar missed the entire season after tearing his left anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) during Spring Training. In , he recovered from a slow start at Triple-A Buffalo Bisons and played 28 games, collecting 24 home runs and 78 runs batted in.\nIn the minors, Escobar was an All-Star in the 'AAA' International, 'AA' Eastern, and 'AA' South Atlantic leagues. He also was selected by Baseball America to join the 1998 All-Stars team.\nEscobar was demoted by the Nationals during spring training after hitting just .103 (3-for-29) with two RBIs. He said he was not getting enough playing time in spring training. \"I'm not swinging the bat. I have to work my way back,\" Escobar said. \"I'm getting used to being on the field every day. It's a combination of everything.\" Baseball America rated him as a top prospect for three years."}
{"id": "715335", "revid": "7061136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715335", "title": "Juan D\u00edaz de Sol\u00eds", "text": "Juan D\u00edaz de Sol\u00eds ( \u2013 20 January 1516) was a 16th-century navigator and explorer. He is also said to be the first European to land in what is now Uruguay.\nBiography.\nHis origins are disputed. One document records him as a Portuguese in the service of Castile (\"Spain\"), having possibly been born in Lisbon or S\u00e3o Pedro de Solis. Others claim that his birth took place in Lebrija, in what is now the province of Seville, Spain, where documentation testifies that he lived when he was in Castile, as \"vecino\" (\"neighbor\"), meaning living there. However he began his naval career in Portugal as Jo\u00e3o Dias de Solis, where he became a pilot in the Portuguese India Armadas. After leaving his home in Lisbon he embarked on a ship to India that he was going to navigate as pilot, a ship captained by Afonso de Albuquerque, in the 1506 armada of Trist\u00e3o da Cunha. The day the fleet weighed anchor was the very day he was accused of the death of his wife. He also served as a privateer in French fleets for a short time before serving, later, the Spanish Crown.\nHe served as navigator on expeditions to the Yucat\u00e1n in 1506-1507 and Brazil in 1508 with Vicente Y\u00e1\u00f1ez Pinz\u00f3n. He became Pilot Major of Spain in 1512 following the death of Amerigo Vespucci, and was thereafter commissioned to update the Padr\u00f3n Real with Juan Vespucio.\nTwo years after appointment to this office, D\u00edaz de Sol\u00eds prepared an expedition to explore the southern part of the new American continent. His three ships and crew of 70 men sailed from Sanl\u00facar de Barrameda, in Spain, on 8 October 1515. He followed the eastern coast of South America southward as far as the mouth of the R\u00edo de la Plata. He reached and named the R\u00edo de la Plata in 1516, sailing upriver to the confluence of the Uruguay River and the Paran\u00e1 River with two officers and seven men. The little party had not proceeded far when they were attacked by local Charr\u00faa Indians, but the evidence points towards it being the Guarani people who killed him. It has been suggested that he was eaten by the Charr\u00faa after disembarking. However, the Charr\u00faa didn't practice cannibalism, while the Guarani Indians did. Surviving crew members reported D\u00edaz de Sol\u00eds and most of the other men had been killed, thus putting the expedition to an end. His brother-in-law, Francisco de Torres, took charge of the ships and returned to Spain.\nHonors.\nSeveral places in Uruguay are named after Juan D\u00edaz de Sol\u00eds:"}
{"id": "715337", "revid": "63223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715337", "title": "Human emotion", "text": ""}
{"id": "715339", "revid": "38173635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715339", "title": "Smolensky District", "text": "Smolensky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715341", "revid": "51167698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715341", "title": "Lincoln's Inn Fields", "text": "Lincoln's Inn Fields is located in Holborn and is the largest public square in London. It was laid out in the 1630s under the initiative of the speculative builder and contractor William Newton, \"the first in a long series of entrepreneurs who took a hand in developing London\", as Sir Nikolaus Pevsner observes. The original plan for \"laying out and planting\" these fields, drawn by the hand of Inigo Jones, was said still to be seen in Lord Pembroke's collection at Wilton House in the 19th century, but its location is now unknown. \nThe West End grounds, which had remained private property, were acquired by London County Council in 1895 and opened to the public by its chairman, Sir John Hutton, the same year. The square is today managed by the London Borough of Camden and forms part of the southern boundary of that borough with the City of Westminster. It is grade II listed on the Register of Historic Parks and Gardens of Special Historic Interest.\nLincoln's Inn Fields takes its name from the adjacent Lincoln's Inn, of which the private gardens are separated from the Fields by a perimeter wall and a large gatehouse.\nThe grassed area in the centre of the Fields contains a court for tennis and netball, and a bandstand. It was previously used for corporate events, which are no longer permitted. Cricket and other sports are thought to have been played here in the 18th century.\nHistory.\nLincoln's Inn was situated in the county of Middlesex. Up to the 17th century cattle were grazed upon the fields, which were part of the Holborn grassland named Pursefield and belonged to St Giles Hospital. In the report of excavations of 64 Lincoln's Inn Fields, it is noted that one Katherine Smyth, the owner of the White Hart Inn on Drury Lane, leased the land from 1520. It then reverted to the Crown, and was used as pasture and occasionally for an execution.\nThe use of the pastures meant that turnstiles were placed around the square to enable pedestrians to enter without the animals escaping. Shops and other businesses developed along these footpaths, and some of these alleys still exist \u2013 the Great and Little Turnstile.\nSchemes for redevelopment of the fields by Inigo Jones and Charles Cornwallis in 1613 and 1618 were unsuccessful. William Newton gained permission, however, to erect 32 houses in what became known as Lincoln's Inn Fields in 1638 for an annual fee of \u00a35 6s 8d. However, the building licence was only given if the central area remained an outdoor space open to the public. Quarry pits were discovered in the excavations at No. 64 (see above), probably for building materials, in particular, gravel. In the fill of one was a fragment of a 'fuddling cup', a drinking vessel which made it deliberately difficult to drink from without spillage.\nWhen originally laid out, Lincoln's Inn Fields was part of fashionable London. The completion of the houses that surrounded it proceeded at a leisurely pace, interrupted by the English Civil War. In 1659 James Cooper, Robert Henley, and Francis Finch and other owners of \"certain parcels of ground in the fields, commonly called Lincoln's Inn Fields\", were exempted from all forfeitures and penalties which they might incur in regard to any new buildings they might erect on three sides of the same fields, previously to 1 October in that year, provided that they paid for the public service one year's full value for every such house within one month of its erection; and provided that they should convey the \"residue of the said fields\" to the Society of Lincoln's Inn, for laying the same into walks for common use and benefit, whereby the annoyances which formerly have been in the same fields will be taken away, and passengers there for the future better secured.\" The oldest building from this early period is Lindsey House, 59\u201360 Lincoln's Inn Fields, which was built in 1640 and has been attributed to Inigo Jones. The builder may have been David Cunningham, 1st Baronet of Auchinhervie, a friend of the mason-sculptor Nicholas Stone, who also supervised the rebuilding of Berkhamsted Place for Charles I. It derives its name from a period of ownership in the 18th century by the earls of Lindsey.\nAnother seventeenth-century survival is now 66 Lincoln's Inn Fields, which was built for Lord Powis and known as Powis House. The charter of the Bank of England was sealed there on 27 July 1694. It was in 1705 acquired by the Duke of Newcastle (whereupon it became known as Newcastle House) who had it remodelled by Sir John Vanbrugh (following earlier work by Christopher Wren after a fire in 1684). It remains substantially in its form of 1700, although a remodelling in 1930 by Edwin Lutyens gives it a curiously pastiche appearance.\nAs London fashion moved west, Lincoln's Inn Fields was left to rich lawyers who were attracted by its proximity to the Inns of Court. In this way the former Newcastle House became in 1790 the premises of the firm of solicitors Farrer &amp; Co, which is still there: their clients include Queen Elizabeth II.\nThe Lincoln's Inn Fields Theatre was located in the Fields from 1661 to 1848, when it was demolished. This, originally called the Duke's Theatre, was created by converting Lisle's Tennis Court. The theatre presented the first paid public performances of Henry Purcell's \"Dido and Aeneas\" in 1700, John Gay's \"The Beggar's Opera\" in January 1728, and George Frideric Handel's final two operas in 1740 and 1741.\nLincoln's Inn Fields was the site, in 1683, of the public beheading of Lord William Russell, son of the first Duke of Bedford, following his implication in the Rye House Plot for the attempted assassination of King Charles II. The executioner was Jack Ketch, who made such a poor job of it that four axe blows were required before the head was separated from the body; after the first stroke, Russell looked up and said to him \"You dog, did I give you 10 guineas to use me so inhumanely?\".\nSometime after 1735 the Fields were enclosed within an iron railing, on account of the then Master of the Rolls, Sir Joseph Jekyll, being ridden over by a horse. An alternative version of the story claims that Jekyll was attacked for his support of an Act of Parliament raising the price of gin.\nFrom 1750 to 1992, the solicitors Frere Cholmeley were in premises on the north side of Lincoln's Inn Fields, after which their buildings were taken over by a leading set of commercial barristers' chambers, known as Essex Court Chambers after their own former premises at 4 Essex Court in the Temple. Essex Court Chambers now occupy five buildings, nos. 24\u201328 Lincoln's Inn Fields. Other barristers' chambers, including leading family law chambers 1GC Family Law, have since then also set up in Lincoln's Inn Fields, but solicitors' firms still outnumber them there.\nIn Charles Dickens' novel \"Bleak House\", the sinister solicitor to the aristocracy, Mr Tulkinghorn, has his offices in Lincoln's Inn Fields, and one of its most dramatic scenes is set there. The description of his building corresponds most closely to Lindsey House. After a spell of being occupied by a firm of patent agents, Lindsey House has become home to the leading civil liberties barristers' chambers, Garden Court Chambers, together with the neighbouring building at 57\u201358, which includes some features designed by Sir John Soane, including a geometric staircase.\nThe London School of Economics and Political Science moved onto the square in 2003, taking the leasehold of 50 Lincoln's Inn Fields, on the corner of Sardinia Street. At the end of 2008, a new \u00a371\u00a0million state-of-the-art building housing the LSE's Departments of Law and Management (54 Lincoln's Inn Fields) was opened by the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh. Since then it has taken ownership of Sardinia House (2009), the former Land Registry building at 32 Lincoln's Inn Fields (2010), 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields (previously the home of Cancer Research), 5 Lincoln's Inn Fields (2016) and Nuffield House (2017), to expand to seven its portfolio of buildings on the square.\nNotable premises.\nAside from Lindsey House and Powis House, the north side of the square features Sir John Soane's Museum, home of the architect, at numbers 12, 13 and 14. On the same side, at number 7, is Thomas More Chambers, led by Geoffrey Cox QC MP. Organisations with premises on the south side of the square include the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) and the Royal College of Surgeons (including the Hunterian Museum, in which are exhibited the intriguing medical collections of John Hunter). There is a blue plaque marking the home of the surgeon William Marsden at number 65. On the west side the Royal College of Radiologists has premises at 63 Lincoln's Inn Fields, and the London School of Economics and Political Science owns a number of buildings. Aside from the Royal College of Surgeons, the School will then own the entire south side of the square. Also located at 67\u201369 is the Centre for Commercial Law Studies, the commercial law research and teaching centre of Queen Mary, University of London.\nArtworks and memorials.\nOn the north side of the square is the Margaret MacDonald Memorial, a bench with bronze figures by Richard Reginald Goulden. It commemorates the feminist and social reformer Margaret Ethel MacDonald who lived with her husband Ramsay MacDonald at Lincoln's Inn Fields. The memorial is grade II listed. \nAnother grade II listed memorial, to Frederick Smith, 2nd Viscount Hambleden, is located in the north-east corner of the gardens. The memorial was designed by Edwin Lutyens, and originally had a bust by Arthur George Walker but this was stolen in the 1970s. At the south-east entrance of the gardens is a grade II listed memorial drinking fountain commemorating Philip Twells. The gothic drinking fountain at the opposite north-west entrance is also grade II listed, along with two bespoke Victorian lamp posts moved from Battersea Park in 2009.\nThe Royal Canadian Air Force headquarters in Britain during World War II was located at 20-23 Lincoln's Inn Fields. A memorial was unveiled and a Canadian maple tree planted nearby in 1998 by the Prime Minister of Canada Jean Chr\u00e9tien and the Mayor of Camden. This memorial replaced a previous memorial and maple tree that had been planted in 1945 by Holborn Borough Council. The 1998 ceremony included a flyover by Tornado Jets. A bomb shelter constructed in 1940 and used by the RCAF and other residents remains under the fields even though surface markings have been removed.\nThere is a 1977 bust of John Hunter by Nigel Boonham in the south-west of the gardens, commissioned by the Royal College of Surgeons of England. \"Camdonian\", a 1980 abstract steel sculpture by Barry Flanagan, is located at the north-east entrance of the square.\nHomelessness.\nDuring the 1980s Lincoln's Inn Fields attracted many homeless people, who slept there overnight. In 1992, they were cleared out and fences were raised, and since the re-opening of Lincoln's Inn Fields with its new railings in 1993, gates have been locked every night at dusk.\nDuring the 2008 Muslim holy month of Ramadan, Muslims attended the Fields at sunset to feed the homeless.\nNearest stations.\nThe nearest London Underground stations are Holborn, Chancery Lane and Temple."}
{"id": "715342", "revid": "20957809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715342", "title": "Edgardo Alfonzo", "text": "Edgardo Antonio Alfonzo (born November 8, 1973), nicknamed \"Fonzie\", is a Venezuelan former professional baseball player, coach and manager. He played Major League Baseball (MLB) as an infielder from to , most prominently with the New York Mets, where he became an All-Star and was an integral member of the 2000 National League pennant winning team. Alfonzo's 29.7 wins above replacement (WAR) as a Met place him as the seventh most valuable player in franchise history. He also played for the San Francisco Giants, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Toronto Blue Jays and Navegantes del Magallanes from the LVBP. \nAfter his major league career, he played in the Liga Mexicana de Beisbol in 2008 for the Tigres de Quintana Roo then, played for one season in Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB) with the Yomiuri Giants in . When his playing career ended, Alfonzo became a coach and later, the manager of the Brooklyn Cyclones. In 2020, Alfonzo was inducted into the New York Mets Hall of Fame.\nEarly life.\nAlfonzo was born in Santa Teresa del Tuy, Venezuela and was raised in the nearby town of Soapire by mother Mercedes Porfiria, a preschool teacher, and father Edgar Alfonzo Sr., a truck driver. He attended Cecilio Acosta High School in Caracas. Alfonzo's older brother, Edgar Jr., taught him to play baseball. Edgar signed with the California Angels in 1985 when he was 18 years old and Alfonzo was 11. Edgar sent his baseball paychecks back home so that their father did not have to spend time away from the rest of the family driving a truck.\nPlaying career.\nNew York Mets.\nAlfonzo was signed by the Mets as an undrafted free agent in . That year he joined the Gulf Coast League Mets. The following season Alfonzo moved up and split time with the short-season \"A\" Pittsfield Mets of the New York\u2013Penn League and Class \"A\" Florida State League St. Lucie Mets in . Alfonzo returned to St. Lucie the next season and played for them in . In , he was promoted to the Binghamton Mets of the Class \"AA\" Eastern League and led the team in home runs and RBI. \nAlfonzo made his Major League debut on April 26, 1995. At the beginning, he was a semi-regular fielder, splitting time at second base, shortstop, and third base with several others. During his rookie season, Alfonzo spent most of his time at third base while accumulating a .310 batting average after the mid-season break. In and , he started regularly on third. After the 1998 season, the Mets signed third baseman Robin Ventura, and Alfonzo was forced to move to second base. While he was upset about the move at first, he became one of the best defensive second baseman in the league from \u2013. Alfonzo was part of the infield considered to be among the best infields in MLB history on a cover of \"Sports Illustrated\", along with Rey Ord\u00f3\u00f1ez, Robin Ventura, and John Olerud. Before the season, the Mets signed the aging Roberto Alomar, and despite Alfonzo's tremendous offensive and defensive contributions during the previous three seasons, he was forced to move back to third base. He remained strong defensively; however, he struggled on offense, and the Mets decided not to re-sign him.\nAlfonzo had his first opportunity to display his clutch hitting ability to a nationwide audience in the 1999 playoffs. After finishing in a tie with the Cincinnati Reds for the National League Wild Card, the Mets played a one-game playoff to decide who would go on to the division series. In his first at bat of the game, Alfonzo hit a two-run home run over the center field fence, providing the Mets with all the offense they would need as Al Leiter threw a complete-game shutout. On the very next night, the Mets played the Arizona Diamondbacks in the first game of the Division Series. Facing the feared Randy Johnson, Alfonzo again homered in his first at bat of the game, this time launching a two-run shot to center field. In the ninth inning of the same game, with the score deadlocked at 4\u20134, Alfonzo launched a grand slam down the left field line to help seal the victory for the Mets.\nIn , playing against the San Francisco Giants in the Division Series, Alfonzo hit a two-run homer in the ninth inning of game two, which would prove to be of immense importance as J. T. Snow launched a three-run homer in the bottom half of the inning to tie the game. The Mets would eventually win the game 5\u20134 in ten innings. In game three of the series, with the Mets trailing 2\u20131 in the bottom of the eighth inning, the Giants brought in their dominant closer Robb Nen, who had not blown a save since the All-Star break. Alfonzo responded by lining a ball down the left-field line for a double to drive in Lenny Harris. Benny Agbayani would later homer in the thirteenth inning to win the game for New York. Alfonzo then batted .444 against the Cardinals in the NLCS, but batted just .143 in the World Series against the New York Yankees. Alfonzo's knack for clutch hitting had endeared him to many Met fans, who still consider him one of the all-time Met greats.\nComing off two excellent seasons in which he batted .304 and .324, Alfonzo had every reason to expect a big year in 2001. He had his best power numbers in 1999 (27 home runs, 108 RBI, 41 doubles) and 2000 (25, 94, 40), and at 27, he was at an age in which many hitters have their best season. However, Alfonzo suffered from a variety of injuries, including sore right hand, knee, thigh, and a back injury from years before, costing him playing time and lowering his stats to a .243 average, 17 HR, and 49 RBI in 2001. He finished with a .308 average, 16 HR, and 56 RBI.\n2002 would be Alfonso\u2019s last season as a Met as the team chose to move on and Alonso became a free agent. In a show of appreciation to Met fans and New York, Alonso spent $15,000 to buy taxi tops (ads on the roofs of New York Yellow Cabs) reading \u201cFonzie Loves New York,\u201d and \u201cEdgardo Thanks You,\u201d with a photo of himself in an FDNY cap.\nSan Francisco Giants.\nAlfonzo signed with the San Francisco Giants on a 4-year, $26 million contract. In , Alfonzo struggled for most of the first half for the Giants. He was hitting .216 with 27 RBI at mid-season, but he hit .306 with 54 RBI the rest of the way, and performed well against the Florida Marlins in the National League Division Series, when he hit .529 (9-for-17) with five RBI. He had the lowest range factor among Major League third basemen (2.46).\nAlfonzo enjoyed a slight career renaissance in hitting for his career average, although with reduced power numbers. But his career continued its downward trend in 2005 due to age, nagging injuries, and reduced playing time in favor of Pedro Feliz.\nLos Angeles Angels.\nThe Los Angeles Angels acquired Alfonzo in exchange for Steve Finley. As a member of the Angels, Alfonzo's playing time further decreased in favor of younger players. After hitting .100 for the season in late May, the Angels released Alfonzo, whose agent had gone public in demands for a trade for lack of playing time, on May 20.\nToronto Blue Jays.\nOn May 26, 2006, Edgardo signed a minor league contract with the Toronto Blue Jays and was soon called up to Toronto to help the Jays' injury- and error-riddled middle infield. He was released on June 12, after appearing in only 12 games for Toronto.\nBridgeport Bluefish.\nIn July 2006, Alfonzo signed a contract with the Bridgeport Bluefish of the independent Atlantic League of Professional Baseball.\nNew York Mets (second stint).\nAfter appearing in a small number of games with the Bluefish, Alfonzo's contract was purchased by the Mets on July 15, 2006. Alfonzo reported to the then-Mets Triple-A affiliate Norfolk Tides with hopes of making it back to New York.\nLong Island Ducks.\nIn February , Alfonzo returned to the ALPB, signing with the Long Island Ducks.\nTexas Rangers.\nOn December 14, 2007, Alfonzo signed a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training with the Texas Rangers. After getting reassigned to minor league camp, Alfonzo was released before the season on March 27, 2008, and signed with the Tigres de Quintana Roo in Liga Mexicana de Beisbol.\nLong Island Ducks (second stint).\nOn June 9, 2008, Alfonzo signed with the Long Island Ducks.\nYomiuri Giants.\nIn February , Alfonzo signed a one-year contract with the Yomiuri Giants of Japan's Central League.\nHe was released by the Giants on December 2, 2009.\nNewark Bears.\nIn 2010 Alfonzo signed a contract with the Newark Bears, reuniting him with his former Mets teammate Armando Ben\u00edtez.\nChicago White Sox.\nIn 2012, the Chicago White Sox signed Alfonzo and assigned him to the Charlotte Knights.\nCoaching career.\nAlfonzo began serving as the Bench Coach for the Brooklyn Cyclones in 2014 under Tom Gamboa. He originally coached home games and select road games in 2014, before coaching all games in 2015 and 2016. In addition to that role, he served as a roving instructor with the Mets. On January 5, 2017, the Cyclones announced that Alfonzo replaced Gamboa, who had retired from baseball.\nAlfonzo led the Brooklyn Cyclones to a New York - Penn League Championship victory on September 10, 2019. This occurred 18 years to the day since the Cyclones won a championship game. The 2001 Brooklyn Cyclones were managed by his brother, Edgar Alfonzo. On October 17, 2019, the Mets informed Alfonzo that his contract to manage the Cyclones would not be renewed.\nOn January 27, 2022, he was announced as the first manager of the Staten Island FerryHawks. The team finished with a 48\u201384 record and failed to qualify for the playoffs. Alfonzo was not retained following the season.\nPersonal life.\nAlfonzo's older brother, Edgar, played in the minor leagues for 12 seasons. He has managed the Kingsport Mets, Brooklyn Cyclones, Savannah Sand Gnats and St. Lucie Mets. Another brother, Roberto, also played in 70 minor league games in the Mets farm system in 1993\u201394. A nephew, Giovanny, was selected in the 21st round of the 2015 MLB draft by the Miami Marlins. Another nephew, Edgar Jr., also played minor league baseball.\nAlfonzo's son Daniel was selected by the Mets in the 38th round of the 2017 MLB draft out of Bayside High School in Queens, New York."}
{"id": "715343", "revid": "169285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715343", "title": "Sokolsky District", "text": "Sokolsky District is the name of two administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715347", "revid": "9023670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715347", "title": "Tuberoinfundibular pathway", "text": "The tuberoinfundibular pathway refers to a population of dopamine neurons that project from the arcuate nucleus ( the \"infundibular nucleus\") in the tuberal region of the hypothalamus to the median eminence. It is one of the four major dopamine pathways in the brain. Dopamine released at this site inhibits the secretion of prolactin from anterior pituitary gland lactotrophs by binding to dopamine receptor D2.\nSome antipsychotic drugs block dopamine in the tuberoinfundibular pathway, which can cause an increase in the amount of prolactin in the blood (hyperprolactinemia).\nOther dopamine pathways.\nOther major dopamine pathways include:"}
{"id": "715356", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715356", "title": "REDTV", "text": ""}
{"id": "715358", "revid": "3729738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715358", "title": "Visby (disambiguation)", "text": "Visby is the largest city on the Swedish island of Gotland. \nVisby may also refer to:"}
{"id": "715360", "revid": "29534843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715360", "title": "Sosnovsky District", "text": "Sosnovsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The name is generally derived from or is related to the root \"sosna\" (\"pine\")."}
{"id": "715365", "revid": "46066408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715365", "title": "Euclid and His Modern Rivals", "text": "Euclid and His Modern Rivals is a mathematical book published in 1879 by the English mathematician Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (1832\u20131898), better known under his literary pseudonym \"Lewis Carroll\". It considers the pedagogic merit of thirteen contemporary geometry textbooks, demonstrating how each in turn is either inferior to or functionally identical to Euclid's \"Elements\".\nIn it Dodgson supports using Euclid's geometry textbook \"The Elements\" as the geometry textbook in schools against more modern geometry textbooks that were replacing it, advocated by the Association for the Improvement of Geometrical Teaching, satirized in the book as the \"Association for the Improvement of Things in General\". Euclid's ghost returns in the play to defend his book against its modern rivals and tries to demonstrate how all of them are inferior to his book.\nDespite its scholarly subject and content, the work takes the form of a whimsical dialogue, principally between a mathematician named Minos (taken from Minos, judge of the underworld in Greek mythology) and a \"devil's advocate\" named Professor Niemand (German for 'nobody') who represents the \"Modern Rivals\" of the title."}
{"id": "715368", "revid": "10951369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715368", "title": "Sovetsky District, Russia", "text": "Sovetsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal divisions in Russia. The name literally means \"Soviet\"."}
{"id": "715369", "revid": "43029033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715369", "title": "St Andrew's Cathedral", "text": "St. Andrew's Cathedral, or the Cathedral Church of St. Andrew, may refer to:\nIn Australia:\nIn Canada:\nIn England:\nIn France:\nIn Greece:\nIn Japan:\nIn the Philippines:\nIn Russia:\nIn Scotland:\nIn Singapore:\nIn Spain:\nIn Ukraine:\nIn the United States:"}
{"id": "715370", "revid": "22753251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715370", "title": "Samuel ibn Tibbon", "text": "Samuel ben Judah ibn Tibbon ( \u2013 ), more commonly known as Samuel ibn Tibbon (, ), was a Jewish philosopher and doctor who lived and worked in Provence, later part of France. He was born about 1150 in Lunel (Languedoc), and died about 1230 in Marseille. He is best known for his translations of Jewish rabbinic literature from Arabic to Hebrew. Samuel ibn Tibbon wrote his own philosophical works, including \"Sefer ha-Mikhtav\" (The Book of the Letter), which dealt with ethics and spirituality. Samuel ibn Tibbon's translations and commentaries had a significant impact on Jewish thought and scholarship during the Middle Ages. They helped to disseminate the ideas of Greek philosophy and Islamic science throughout the Jewish world, and they also contributed to the development of Jewish philosophy in their own right.\nBiography.\nHe received a Jewish education in rabbinic literature from his father Judah ben Saul ibn Tibbon. Other teachers in Lunel taught him about medicine, Arabic and the secular knowledge of his age.\nSamuel ibn Tibbon married and had children, including a son, Moses ibn Tibbon, who also translated works from Arabic to Hebrew. Later in his life, he lived in several cities of southern France (1199 in B\u00e9ziers, and 1204 in Arles).\nHe traveled to Barcelona, Toledo, and Alexandria (1210\u20131213). Finally he settled in Marseille. After his death, his body was transported to the Kingdom of Jerusalem, and he is buried in Tiberias.\nOriginal writings.\nIn 1213, while returning from Alexandria, Samuel ibn Tibbon wrote on shipboard \"Biur meha-Millot ha-Zarot,\" an explanation of the philosophical terms of \"Guide for the Perplexed\" by Maimonides.\nWhen finishing his Hebrew translation of the Guide (originally written in Arabic), Samuel wrote an alphabetical glossary of the foreign words that he had used in his translation. In the introduction to the glossary, he divided these words into five classes:\nHe gives also a list of corrections which he desired to be made in the copies of his translation of the \"Guide.\" The glossary gives not only a short explanation of each word and its origin, but also in many cases a scientific definition with examples.\nSamuel wrote a commentary on the whole Bible, but only the following portions are known:\nSamuel ibn Tibbon was an enthusiastic adherent of Maimonides and his allegorical interpretation of the Bible. He held that many Bible narratives are to be considered simply as parables (\"meshalim\") and the religious laws as guides (\"hanhagot\") to a higher, spiritual life. While such statements were not unusual in his age, adherents of the literal interpretation of the Bible, the anti-Maimonidean party (see Maimonides for more details), created strong opposition to the work.\nTranslations.\nSamuel's reputation is based not on his original writings, but on his translations, especially that of Maimonides' \"Guide for the Perplexed\" in 1204. (An image of his work may be seen online at the World Digital Library.) (The Hebrew translation is \"Moreh Nevukhim\"). Opponents of Maimonides used a satirical title: \"Nevukhat ha-Morim\", or \"Perplexity of the Rebellious\".\nBefore finishing this difficult work, Samuel consulted Maimonides several times by letter regarding some difficult passages. Maimonides responded sometimes in Arabic; his letters were later translated into Hebrew, perhaps by Samuel. He praised the translator's ability and acknowledged his command of Arabic, a skill he found surprising in France. Maimonides gave some general rules for translation from the Arabic into Hebrew, and explained passages questioned by Samuel by writing in Hebrew.\nSamuel ibn Tibbon's translation is preceded by an introduction. He said that he wrote the translation because the Jewish scholars of Lunel had asked for it. As aids in his work, he used the Hebrew translation by his father (whom he calls \"the Father of the Translators\"), works on the Arabic language, and the Arabic writings in his own library. Samuel also prepared an index of the Biblical verses quoted in the \"Moreh.\"\nA new, modern edition of ibn Tibbon's translation was published in 2019 by Feldheim Publishers. Punctuation and paragraph breaks were added, as well as translation of difficult words at the bottom of the page. There is also an extended introduction, many new indexes and other additions.\nCharacteristics of his works.\nThe distinction of Samuel's translation is its accuracy and faithfulness to the original. Some critics have been concerned that he introduced a number of Arabic words into Hebrew, and, by analogy with the Arabic, he gives to certain Hebrew words meanings different from the accepted ones. But generally the scope and success of his work are not questioned. Especially admirable is the skill with which he reproduces in Hebrew the abstract ideas of Maimonides, as Hebrew is essentially a language of a people expressing concrete ideas.\nWhen the struggle between the Maimonists and anti-Maimonists arose, Samuel was reproached for contributing to the spread of the ideas of Maimonides. His chief critic was Judah al-Fakhkhar.\nSamuel translated the following works of Maimonides:\nSamuel also translated the following works of other Arabic authors:"}
{"id": "715372", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715372", "title": "By-elections", "text": ""}
{"id": "715373", "revid": "51716747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715373", "title": "Marine Drive, Mumbai", "text": "Marine Drive, often referred to as the Queen's Necklace, is a 3-kilometre-long promenade along the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Road in Mumbai, India. The road and promenade were constructed by Pallonji Mistry in 1940. It is a banana-shaped, six-lane concrete road along the coast of a natural bay. At the northern end of Marine Drive is Girgaon Chowpatty, and the adjacent road links Nariman Point at the southern tip to Babulnath and Malabar Hill at the northern tip. Marine Drive is situated on reclaimed land facing west-south-west. Marine Drive is known as the Queen's Necklace because, when viewed at night from above, the streetlights resemble a string of pearls in a necklace.\nThe official name for this road, though rarely used, is Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Road. The promenade is lined with palm trees. At the northern end of Marine Drive is Chowpatty Beach. This is a popular beach famed for its Bhel Puri (local fast food). Many restaurants also line this stretch of the road. Further down the road lies Walkeshwar, a wealthy neighborhood of the city, and also home to the Governor of Maharashtra.\nMost of the buildings erected by wealthy Parsis were constructed in an art deco style, which was popular in the 1920s and 1930s. Among the earliest art deco buildings on Marine Drive were the Kapur Mahal, Zaver Mahal, and Keval Mahal, which are also part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site -the Victorian Gothic &amp; Art Deco Ensembles of Mumbai. These buildings were constructed between 1937 and 1939 for a total cost of 1 million rupees.\nReal estate prices along the esplanade are high. Many hotels dot the drive, most prominent among them being the 5-star Oberoi (formerly the \"Oberoi Hilton Tower\", however, reverted to the original name as of early 2008), the intercontinental, Hotel Marine Plaza, Sea Green Hotel and a few smaller hotels. Marine Drive is the preferred connecting road between the central business district located at Nariman Point and the rest of the city.\nMany sports clubs, some cricket stadiums and club grounds are situated along the stretch of Marine Drive, including members-only clubs like the Cricket Club of India (CCI), adjoining the Brabourne Stadium, Hindu Gymkhana Ground and Garware Club House, adjacent to the famous Wankhede Stadium, as well as others like the Mumbai Police Gymkhana, Hindu Gymkhana, Parsi Gymkhana and Islam Gymkhana.\nA well known actress and singer from the 1950s, Suraiya lived in a building on the stretch known as 'Krishna Mahal' in the ground-floor apartment (as a tenant of Shah family) from the 1940s until her death on 31 January 2004. The house was first rented by her mother, Mumtaz Begum. Many other film stars, such as Nargis and Raj Kapoor, lived nearby in the 1940s and 50s.\nIn 2012, the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai announced that the entire road would be resurfaced, 72 years after it was originally laid. A number of bollards were also installed as there was nothing to prevent accidents or attacks. A few years earlier, the footpaths were renovated.\nNotable places.\nPlaces situated near Marine drive road:\nMajor events.\nMajor events and incidents happened on this place as of 1 October 2024:\nReferences.\nhttps://www.frommers.com/destinations/mumbai/attractions/marine-drive--chowpatty-beach"}
{"id": "715374", "revid": "25382777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715374", "title": "Henry Blanco", "text": "Henry Ram\u00f3n Blanco (born August 29, 1971) is a Venezuelan former professional baseball catcher who currently serves as the manager for the Sultanes de Monterrey of the Mexican League. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1997 to 2013, appearing for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Colorado Rockies, Milwaukee Brewers, Atlanta Braves, Minnesota Twins, Chicago Cubs, San Diego Padres, New York Mets, Arizona Diamondbacks, Toronto Blue Jays, and Seattle Mariners. He later served as quality assurance coach for the Cubs. Although a light-hitting player, he was regarded as one of the best defensive catchers of his era.\nProfessional career.\nBlanco began his professional baseball career in 1989 when, he was signed by the Los Angeles Dodgers as an amateur free agent. He didn't begin to play as a catcher until . After 7 years in the minor leagues, he finally blossomed in when he hit for a .313 batting average in 91 games for the Albuquerque Dukes of the Pacific Coast League. At the age of 25, Blanco made his major league debut with the Dodgers on July 25, 1997. He returned to play for Albuquerque in and was granted free agency in October of that year.\nIn December 1998, Blanco signed a contract to play for the Colorado Rockies and won the starting catcher's role for the 1999 season. Hitting for a .232 batting average, he embellished his defensive credentials by leading National League catchers with 39 baserunners caught stealing. In December 1999, he was traded to the Milwaukee Brewers as part of a three-team trade. Blanco caught the majority of the Brewers' games in 2000, posting a .236 batting average with 7 home runs, 31 runs batted in. He led National League catchers with a 58.2% baserunners caught stealing percentage, the highest percentage since when Bob Boone also had a 58.2% success rate. His batting average fell to .210 in the 2001 season and, in March 2002, he was traded to the Atlanta Braves for Paul Bako and Jos\u00e9 Cabrera.\nWhile Blanco served as a reserve catcher with the Braves working behind Javy Lopez, he also became known as Greg Maddux' personal catcher, a role he inherited from fellow Venezuelan catcher, Eddie P\u00e9rez. Although he only produced 22 runs batted in, he had 5 game-winning RBIs and provided solid defense, helping the Braves win the National League Eastern Division title. Blanco was the starting catcher for the Braves in Game 3 of the 2002 National League Division Series and was a late-inning replacement in Game 5 as the Braves were defeated by the San Francisco Giants. In January , Blanco signed a $1.3 million, one-year contract with the Braves.\nThe Braves repeated as Eastern Division champions in 2003 however, Blanco's batting average dropped to .199 and he was left off the post-season roster in favor of catcher Johnny Estrada as, the Braves lost to the Chicago Cubs in the 2003 National League Division Series. When the Braves assigned him to the Triple-A Richmond Braves at the end of the season, Blanco opted for free agency and, in December 2003, he signed a one-year, $750,000 contract to play for the Minnesota Twins.\nBlanco became a valuable member of the Twins when rookie catcher Joe Mauer was injured early in the 2004 season. He was credited for helping the Twins pitching staff with his game-calling skills, guiding them to the lowest team earned run average in the league. Twins pitcher, Johan Santana, gave Blanco credit for helping him win the American League Cy Young Award. He caught the majority of the Twins' games helping them to clinch the American League Central division title. Blanco posted career-highs with 10 home runs and 37 runs batted in, while leading the American League catchers with a 49.2% caught stealing percentage. He started all four games of the 2004 American League Division Series, hitting 1 home run along with a .250 batting average as the Twins lost to the New York Yankees.\nAfter failing to reach a contract agreement with the Twins after the season, Blanco opted for free agency again and, in December 2004 he signed a two-year, $2.7 million contract to play for the Chicago Cubs. He worked as a backup catcher to Michael Barrett although, many of the Cubs pitchers preferred pitching to Blanco as his 2005 catcher's earned run average of 3.58 was almost 1 run lower than the 4.45 average posted by Barrett.\nIn the 2006 Caribbean Series, Blanco had a walk off double off the top of the opposing shortstop's head in the championship game to give the Leones del Caracas the series championship win over the Tigres del Licey. In the 2006 major league season, he hit for a .266 batting average with a career-high 37 runs batted in and, in November, signed a two-year contract for $5.25 million to remain with the Cubs. Blanco appeared in only 22 games for the Cubs in 2007, missing two months of the season due to a herniated disc. The Cubs went on to win the National League Central division although, Blanco did not appear in any post-season games. In 2008, Blanco hit a career-high .292 while serving as backup and mentor to rookie catcher Geovany Soto, who went on to win the National League Rookie of the Year Award.\nAfter the 2008 season, Blanco's option was declined making him a free agent. In January 2009, he signed a $750,000, one-year contract to play for the San Diego Padres. During the 2009 season, he was a pinch-hitter, late-inning defensive replacement, and a mentor for Padres starting catcher Nick Hundley. Blanco signed a one-year, $1.5 million contract with the New York Mets on December 3, 2009. On May 8, 2010, Blanco hit a walk-off home run to help the Mets defeat the San Francisco Giants 5\u20134.\nBlanco signed a one-year contract on December 15, 2010, with the Arizona Diamondbacks. He played in 37\u00a0games, hitting .250 and was re-signed following the season. He played in 21\u00a0games in the 2012 season.\nBlanco signed a non-guaranteed contract on January 11, 2013, with the Toronto Blue Jays. Blanco made the opening day roster for Toronto as the batterymate to recently acquired 2012 NL Cy Young winner R. A. Dickey. Blanco and Dickey previously played together for the New York Mets during the 2010 season, and Dickey had said Blanco was \"the best [Dickey's] had seen at catching the knuckleball\". Blanco was designated for assignment on June 7, 2013, and released on June 10. He batted .184 with the Blue Jays in 15\u00a0games played, with no home runs or RBI.\nBlanco was signed by the Seattle Mariners on June 14, 2013, to be a mentor to Mike Zunino. In Blanco's first game with the Mariners on June 15 (against the Oakland Athletics), he hit a grand slam down the left field line. On July 25, Zunino broke his left hand, and Blanco began splitting the catching duties with recently signed Humberto Quintero. On August 1, 2013, Blanco hit his second grand slam since becoming a Mariner. This one also down the left field line, against the Boston Red Sox starting pitcher Ryan Dempster which gave the Mariners a 7\u20131 lead, but the bullpen allowed seven runs in the final two innings in an 8\u20137 loss.\nIn 35\u00a0games with the Mariners, Blanco hit .125/.215/.240 with 3\u00a0HR and 14 RBI, while throwing out 6 of 16 would-be base stealers. He played in his final major league game on September 23, 2013, at the age of 41. He was designated for assignment on October 8, 2013, after the Mariners claimed outfield prospect Travis Witherspoon off waivers from the Los Angeles Angels. He elected free agency the next day.\nCareer statistics.\nIn a sixteen-year major league career, Blanco played in 971 games, accumulating 615 hits in 2,761 at bats for a .223 career batting average along with 72 home runs, 298 runs batted in and an on-base percentage of .288. Blanco's .994 career fielding percentage ranks 27th all-time among major league catchers. Although he was a light-hitter, Blanco had an extended major league career due to the value of his excellent defensive abilities. He has credited former catcher Mike Scioscia, who was the catching coordinator during his time with the Dodgers, with helping him develop his catching skills.\nCoaching career.\nArizona Diamondbacks.\nBlanco signed a minor league contract, that included an invitation to spring training, with the Arizona Diamondbacks on December 13, 2013. He was released on March 31, 2014, and immediately re-joined the Diamondbacks as a coach. \nChicago Cubs.\nOn November 22, 2014, Blanco was hired by the Chicago Cubs to be their quality assurance coach. He won the 2016 World Series with the Cubs as a coach. \nWashington Nationals.\nAfter three seasons as a Chicago coach, Blanco joined former Cubs bench coach Dave Martinez on the staff of the Washington Nationals as the team's bullpen coach. His hiring was announced November 15, 2017. On November 4, 2021, Blanco was transitioned to the role of catching and strategy coach.\nBlanco made his managerial debut with the Bravos de Margarita club of the Venezuelan League in the 2014\u20132015 season.\nOn July 9, 2025, Blanco was promoted to the role of bench coach, following the firing of Martinez, which prompted the incumbent Miguel Cairo to be promoted to interim manager. He was let go following the 2025 season.\nSultanes de Monterrey.\nOn November 4, 2025, Blanco was hired to serve as the manager for the Sultanes de Monterrey of the Mexican League."}
{"id": "715375", "revid": "2093577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715375", "title": "Cathedral Church of Saint Andrew (Honolulu)", "text": "The Cathedral Church of Saint Andrew, also commonly known as St. Andrew's Cathedral, is a cathedral of the Episcopal Church in the United States located in the State of Hawaii. Originally the seat of the Anglican Church of Hawaii, it is now the home of the bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Hawaii. It is affiliated with St. Andrew's Schools, which consists of the main girls' K-12 school, the coeducational Queen Emma Preschool and a boys' preparatory school (elementary).\nThe cathedral reported 791 members in 2015 and 351 members in 2023; no membership statistics were reported in 2024 parochial reports. Plate and pledge income for the congregation in 2024 was $330,618 with average Sunday attendance (ASA) of 187.\nHistory.\nKamehameha IV and Queen Emma, his queen consort, were devout members of the Church of England led by their good friend Queen Victoria. At their request, Thomas Nettleship Staley was appointed bishop in 1862. Inspired to build a place of worship in the Anglican tradition, Kamehameha IV commissioned the construction of what would later become the Cathedral of Saint Andrew. However, the king died on the feast day of Saint Andrew in 1863 before ground-breaking. Kamehameha V, the king's brother, took over the project and laid the cornerstone in honor of his predecessor on March 5, 1867. The cathedral was designed by the London architects William Slater and R.\u00a0H.\u00a0Carpenter, and the building process was overseen by their chief assistant Benjamin Ingelow.\nThe Cathedral of Saint Andrew was built in the French Gothic architectural style, shipped in several pre-fabricated pieces from England. The western facade has a window of hand-blown stained glass that reaches from the floor to the eaves, depicting the European explorers that visited the Hawaiian Islands.\nThere are only three other cathedrals in the Hawaiian Islands \u2014 Cathedral Basilica of Our Lady of Peace, Saints Constantine and Helen Greek Orthodox Cathedral of the Pacific of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America and the Co-Cathedral of Saint Theresa of the Child Jesus of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Honolulu.\nIt is located on Queen Emma Street, between Beretania Street and Queen Emma Square.\nIt was added to the National Register of Historic Places listings in Oahu on July 2, 1973 as site 73000663.\nBells.\nThe Mackintosh Tower, completed in 1912, contains a set of eight bells hung for change ringing, and is the westernmost such tower in the United States and the world. The current bells, which predate the cathedral, came from St. Alkmund's Church, Shrewsbury, United Kingdom. They were cast in 1812 by John Briant (1748-1829), a bellfounder based in Hertford. They went unrung for many years due to that church's structural issues, and in 1972, facing redundancy, the bells were put up for sale. In 1990, the bells were removed from St Alkmund's Church to John Taylor &amp; Co, who refurbished and retuned the bells to F\u266f. The bells, at the request of the donor, were also inscribed with the names of the Hawaiian monarchs. They were installed in 1991."}
{"id": "715376", "revid": "1666642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715376", "title": "Spassky District", "text": "Spassky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The name is generally derived from or related to the root ('savior')\u2014usually alluding to the Christian faith."}
{"id": "715379", "revid": "50496234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715379", "title": "Variadic macro in the C preprocessor", "text": "A variadic macro is a feature of some computer programming languages, especially the C preprocessor, whereby a macro may be declared to accept a varying number of arguments. \nVariable-argument macros were introduced in 1999 in the \"ISO/IEC 9899:1999\" (C99) revision of the C language standard, and in 2011 in \"ISO/IEC 14882:2011\" (C++11) revision of the C++ language standard. Support for variadic macros with no arguments was added in C++20 and C23.\nDeclaration syntax.\nThe declaration syntax is similar to that of variadic functions: a sequence of three full stops \"\" is used to indicate that one or more arguments must be passed. During macro expansion each occurrence of the special identifier in the macro replacement list is replaced by the passed arguments.\nAdditionally, regular macro arguments may be listed before the codice_1, but regular arguments may not be listed after the codice_1.\nNo means is provided to access individual arguments in the variable argument list, nor to find out how many were passed. However, macros can be written to count the number of arguments that have been passed.\nBoth the C99 and C++11 standards require at least one argument, but since C++20 and C23 this limitation has been lifted through the functional macro. The macro is replaced by its argument when arguments are present, and omitted otherwise. Common compilers also permit passing zero arguments before this addition, however.\nThe C preprocessor rules prevent macro names in the argument of from expanding recursively. It is possible to work around this limitation up to an arbitrary fixed number of recursive expansions, however.\nSupport.\nSeveral compilers support variable-argument macros when compiling C and C++ code: the GNU Compiler Collection 3.0, Clang (all versions), Visual Studio 2005, C++Builder 2006, and Oracle Solaris Studio (formerly Sun Studio) Forte Developer 6 update 2 (C++ version 5.3). GCC also supports such macros when compiling Objective-C.\nSupport for the macro to support zero arguments has been added in GNU Compiler Collection 8, Clang 6, and Visual Studio 2019.\nExample.\nIf a codice_3-like function were desired, which would take the file and line number from which it was called as arguments, the following solution applies.\nOur implemented function:\nvoid realdbgprintf(const char* fileName, int line, const char* fmt, ...);\nDue to limitations of the variadic macro support in C++11 the following straightforward solution can fail and should thus be avoided:\nThe reason is that \ndbgprintf(\"Hallo\")\ngets expanded to \nrealdbgprintf(__FILE__, __LINE__, \"Hallo\", )\nwhere the comma before the closing brace will result in a syntax error.\nGNU C++ supports a non-portable extension which solves this:\nC++20 supports the following syntax.\nBy using the codice_4 string as part of the variadic arguments we can circumvent the abovementioned incompatibilities. This is tricky but portable.\n could then be called as \ndbgprintf(\"Hello, world\");\nwhich expands to \nrealdbgprintf(__FILE__, __LINE__, \"Hello, world\");\nAnother example is:\ndbgprintf(\"%d + %d = %d\", 2, 2, 5);\nwhich expands to\nrealdbgprintf(__FILE__, __LINE__, \"%d + %d = %d\", 2, 2, 5);\nWithout variadic macros, writing wrappers to codice_3 is not directly possible. The standard workaround is to use the stdargs functionality of C/C++, and have the function call codice_6 instead.\nTrailing comma.\nThere is a portability issue with generating a trailing comma with empty args for variadic macros in C99. Some compilers (e.g., Visual Studio when not using the new standard-conformant preprocessor) will silently eliminate the trailing comma. Other compilers (e.g.: GCC) support putting in front of codice_7.\nThe following application works\nMYLOG(\"Too many balloons %u\", 42);\nwhich expands to\nfprintf(stderr, \"%s(%u): \" \"Too many balloons %u\" \"\\n\", __FILE__, __LINE__, 42);\nwhich is equivalent to\nfprintf(stderr, \"%s(%u): Too many balloons %u\\n\", __FILE__, __LINE__, 42);\nBut look at this application:\nMYLOG(\"Attention!\");\nwhich expands to\nfprintf(stderr, \"%s(%u): \" \"Attention!\" \"\\n\", __FILE__, __LINE__, );\nwhich generates a syntax error with GCC.\nGCC supports the following (non-portable) extension:\nwhich removes the trailing comma when codice_7 is empty.\nC23 solves this problem by introducing codice_7 like C++.\nAlternatives.\nBefore the existence of variable-arguments in C99, it was quite common to use doubly nested parentheses to exploit the variable number of arguments that could be supplied to the function:\n could then be called as:\ndbgprintf((\"Hello, world %d\", 27));\nwhich expands to:\nrealdbgprintf(\"Hello, world %d\", 27);"}
{"id": "715386", "revid": "37640643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715386", "title": "Sunzhensky District", "text": "Sunzhunsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715395", "revid": "1294255282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715395", "title": "Tambovsky District", "text": "Tambovsky District (Russian: \u0422\u0430\u043c\u0431\u043e\u0301\u0432\u0441\u043a\u0438\u0439 \u0440\u0430\u0439\u043e\u0301\u043d) is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715396", "revid": "8524693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715396", "title": "Alan Cunningham", "text": "Sir Alan Gordon Cunningham, (1 May 1887 \u2013 30 January 1983), was a senior officer of the British Army noted for his victories over Italian forces in the East African Campaign during the Second World War. He then commanded Eighth Army in the desert campaign, but was relieved of command during the \"Crusader\" battle against Erwin Rommel. Later he served as the seventh and last High Commissioner of Palestine. He was the younger brother of Admiral of the Fleet Lord Cunningham of Hyndhope.\nEarly life and military career.\nCunningham was born in Dublin, Ireland, the third son of Scottish Professor Daniel John Cunningham and his wife Elizabeth Cumming Browne. He was educated at Cheltenham College and the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich before taking a commission in the Royal Artillery in 1906. In 1909, his father died unexpectedly and Cunningham applied to join the British Indian Army as he could no longer afford the life style of an officer in Britain. At the out break of the First World War, he was deployed to France with the Indian Expeditionary Force. However, in 1915 he was transferred back to the Royal Artillery, due to a shortage in trained officers. He was awarded a Military Cross in 1915 and the Distinguished Service Order in 1918, he was also awarded three Mention in dispatches during the War. He had served as a Howitzer Battery Commander and was the Artillery brigade major for 20th (Light) Division in June 1917. For two years after the war, he served as a staff officer in the Straits Settlements. He went on to have a number of regimental duty posts, including a tour in Egypt in 1925. He was promoted to Brevet Lieutenant Colonel whilst conducting the post of Chief Instructor at the Anti-Aircraft Wing at the Small Arms School in Netheravon, and was appointed Commanding Officer of 1st Medium Brigade Royal Artillery in Portsmouth in 1935.\nAfter graduating from the Royal Naval College, Greenwich in 1925, followed by the Imperial Defence College in 1937, Cunningham was appointed as the Commander, Royal Artillery of the 1st Infantry Division. However, he never took up this post as he was promoted in 1938 to major-general and given the task of forming and commanding the 5th Anti-Aircraft Division. Cunningham's headquarters was in Reading and the division covered Bristol, Portsmouth and Southampton. This area of operation in South-West England was aligned with the RAF 10 Group.\nSecond World War.\nAfter Dunkirk, Cunningham was moved from 5th Anti-Aircraft initially to reform the 4th (Infantry) Division, but this was quickly changed and he was ordered to form and train the 66th Infantry Division, in Manchester. He was the moved to Scotland to command the 9th (Highland) Infantry Division, and renamed it 51st (Highland) Infantry Division, when the majority of that Division was lost in the withdrawal from France. At 3 days notice he was informed that he was to take command of the East Africa Force in Kenya and was promoted to acting lieutenant general.\nDuring the East African Campaign General Sir Archibald Wavell, the Commander-in-Chief of the British Middle East Command, directed Cunningham to retake British Somaliland and free Addis Ababa, Ethiopia from the Italians whilst forces under the command of Lieutenant-General Sir William Platt would attack from Sudan in the north through Eritrea. Cunningham commanded three divisions in East Africa Force, the 1st (South African) Division commanded by Major General George Brink, the 11th (African) Division commanded by Major General Harry Edward de Robillard Wetherall and the 12th (African) Division commanded by Major General Reade Godwin-Austen . Cunningham's offensive started with the Battle of the Juba prior to which he issued his famous order of the day 'Hit them. Hit them hard and hit them again'. The Indian Ocean port of Kismayu () was quickly captured and Cunningham realized that the Italians had no depth to their defence. He therefore ordered a rapid advance to Mogadishu (Italian: Mogadiscio) by the 23rd Nigerian Brigade who covered 275 miles in only three days. When General Wavell asked Cunningham when he might capture Mogadishu, he simply replied 'got it'. The Italians were then pursued and fought a number of covering actions at the Marda Pass and the River Awash. On 6 April 1941, Cunningham's forces entered Addis Ababa having advanced 1,687 miles at an average rate of 75 miles a day. On the 5 May 1941, Cunningham believed that it was safe for Emperor Haile Selassie to return to Addis Ababa, five years after he was forced to flee from the Italian forces. On 11 May, the northernmost units of Cunningham's forces, under South African Brigadier Dan Pienaar linked with Platt's forces under Major-General Mosley Mayne to besiege Amba Alagi. On 20 May, Mayne took the surrender of the Duke of Aosta, at Amba Alagi. Cunningham continued to lead his forces in mopping-up operations against the 40,000 Italian troops in the Galla-Sidamo region. He was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath and awarded another Mention in Dispatches for his actions in East Africa. For this campaign he was also awarded Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar, 1st class and Order of Menelik II, 1st class by Emperor Haile Selassie and the Order of the Crown, 1st class by the King of Belgium.\nHis success in East Africa led to Cunningham's appointment to form, train, and command the new Eighth Army in North Africa in August 1941. The Eighth Army was to consist of two Corps, XIII Corps (United Kingdom) was mainly infantry and was to be commanded by Lieutenant General Godwin-Austen, whom Cunningham had commanded in East Africa. XXX Corps was to be armoured and commanded by Lieutenant General Vyvyan Pope, the British armoured expert. However, Pope was killed with his staff in a plane crash on 6 October 1941 and he was replaced by the inexperienced cavalry officer Major General Charles Willoughby-Norrie. Cunningham had to form and train the Eighth Army in time to lead General Sir Claude Auchinleck's Libyan Desert offensive which under pressure from Churchill was due to begin in early November, but actually began on 18 November. It was called Operation Crusader.\nCunningham's offensive achieved complete surprise and the Axis were slow to react. This resulted in Willoughby-Norrie convincing Cunningham to amend the plan and allow him to strike for Tobruk. This resulted in the destruction of the British armour as it engaged the Afrika Korps as brigades, rather than Cunningham's plan for a concentrated Eighth Army fighting what Pope had termed 'the Big Tank Battle'. due to the heavy losses, there was a chance that Rommel could break through to Egypt, and Cunningham sought strategic advice from Auchinleck to either continue the offensive or to defend and rebuild the tank formations. Auchinleck, who had access to secret Ultra intelligence, ordered Cunningham to continue and Cunningham issued orders that XIII Corps was to take up the offensive and relieve the Siege of Tobruk.\nOn 25 November, the Axis counterattack into Egypt during Crusader had been repulsed, Cunningham was dismissed by Auchinleck. His replacement was Auchinleck's deputy chief of the general staff, Major-General Neil Ritchie, who was chosen due to his familiarity with the Operation Crusader plan. The day after Ritchie took over, XIII Corps relieved Tobruk as planned by Cunningham. Auchinleck had been content when he left Cunningham and it is likely that he was convinced by Air Marshal Arthur Tedder to replace him during the flight back to Cairo. Auchinleck asked Cunningham to go into No. 64 Field Hospital for security reasons, asking him \"to agree to being placed on the sick list and to go into hospital for a period. I know that this will be against all your instincts, and that you will hate doing it\" and Cunningham agreed. However, he had no health issues apart from being tired after fighting for 9 days as he pointed out \"like all the troops fighting in Libya\". Once Cunningham was in hospital, Auchinleck wrote again to offer his \"forgiveness in having inflicted this indignity on you \u2026 [I] know very well how you disliked having to pretend that you are sick, when you are not.\" Cunningham was then examined by a consultant Colonel Smallwood on the 29 November who wrote that he was \"tired and showed signs of strain\u2019 due to his \u2018long and heavy responsibilities\" which \"had culminated in a period of about a week with practically no sleep\", he concluded that,\"since admission to hospital he has slept soundly each night\u2026 He is composed, and very alert and mentally active. There is no evidence of any \u201cnervous breakdown.\"\" However, whilst Cunningham was in isolated in hospital, the narrative of a nervous breakdown was spread and became the accepted story.\nWhen he return to Britain in December 1941, Churchill refused to give him a role, stating that he was either sick or incompetent, but General Alan Brooke contended that he was neither. However, when Jan Smuts came to Britain the October 1942 he convinced Churchill that Cunningham should be given a role. Cunningham, who was now a Major General again, was appointed as the Commandant of the Staff College, Camberley (1942). In 1943 he was appointed as General Officer C-in-C in Northern Ireland and promoted back to Lieutenant General. In this role he was heavily involved in preparing US troops for D Day and was awarded the Legion of Merit Medal by the US Government for this work. Finally, in 1944 he was appointed as the General Officer C-in-C Eastern Command with the tasks of both training replacements for Europe and disbanding the Home Guard. During these later posts, Cunningham gave a number of important speeches about military leadership, and the eminent academic, Professor John Adair (author), has said of Cunningham words that it \"puts him up with Montgomery and Slim as a thinker about leadership in the military context.\u00a0He was unique, however, in lecturing on the subject actually during the Second World War, whereas they saved their thoughts until the post war years.\"\nPost-war.\nAfter the war, Cunningham, who was promoted to general on 30 October 1945, returned to the Middle East as High Commissioner of Palestine; he served in the position from 1945 to 1948. He was in charge of operations against the Hagana, a Zionist militia, Etzel and Lehi terrorists who in this period fought against the Mandate authorities and the Palestinian population, as well as Palestinian militias, with Arab armies poised to invade as soon as the British withdrew. Cunningham had retired from the army in October 1946 when he relinquished the role of Commander-in-Chief Palestine but retained the job of High Commissioner until 1948. He was awarded a second knighthood for his duties and became a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George.\nOn return to Britain, Cunningham was offered the post of Black Rod at the Palace of Westminster, but declined it and retired from public life. He continued to serve, however, as the Colonel Commandant of the Royal Artillery until 1954, as a Deputy Lord Lieutenant of Hampshire from 1950, as the President of the Council of Governors at Cheltenham College from 1951 until 1963. Also, in 1954, he was asked to play a major role in the visit to Britain of Emperor Haile Selassie. On 5 April 1951, at the age of 61, he married Margery Snagge.\nCunningham died at the age of 95 in Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent, England. He is buried with his father and mother under a simple monument near the Dean Gallery entrance to Dean Cemetery in Edinburgh."}
{"id": "715397", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715397", "title": "Light brigade", "text": ""}
{"id": "715400", "revid": "1310330961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715400", "title": "Roger Cede\u00f1o", "text": "Roger Leandro Cede\u00f1o (born August 16, 1974) is a Venezuelan former professional baseball outfielder. He played 11 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1995 to 2005 for the Los Angeles Dodgers, New York Mets, Houston Astros, Detroit Tigers, and St. Louis Cardinals.\nCareer.\nSigned by the Los Angeles Dodgers as an undrafted amateur free agent in , Cede\u00f1o made his major league debut in . Cede\u00f1o was slated to be the heir apparent to veteran Dodger All-Star outfielder Brett Butler. However, after four seasons of mediocre play with the Dodgers, he was traded to the New York Mets on December 1, 1998 in a deal in which the Dodgers obtained Todd Hundley. In the 1999 season, Cede\u00f1o broke a Mets record by stealing 66 bases in a season (later broken by Jose Reyes). Besides his 66 stolen bases, Cede\u00f1o would bat .313, have an on-base percentage of .396, and a slugging percentage of .408. These would all turn out to be career bests. Following the season, on December 11 the Mets traded Cede\u00f1o to the Houston Astros as part of a deal to obtain Mike Hampton.\nIn May 2000, Cede\u00f1o broke his hand sliding headfirst into first base and would spend three months on the disabled list. Following the season, Cede\u00f1o would be involved in a December trade for the third consecutive year, this time going to the Detroit Tigers in a six player deal. 2001 would see Cede\u00f1o bat .293 and steal 55 bases, although he led the American League by being caught stealing 15 times. That winter would be the fourth year in a row he changed teams, returning to the Mets via free agency. The next three seasons would show further declines in Cede\u00f1o's stolen bases, 25 in 2002, 14 in 2003 and just 5 in 2004, while hitting in the .260s all three years. He was traded before the 2004 season to the St. Louis Cardinals for Wilson Delgado. Following a 2005 season that saw just 61 plate appearances, Cede\u00f1o was released by the Cardinals.\nAfter a year off, Cede\u00f1o agreed to a minor league contract with the Baltimore Orioles in . He was released on March 23, 2007.\nCede\u00f1o finished his career with a .273 batting average, 40 home runs, 274 RBI and 213 stolen bases in 1100 games.\nCauses.\nIn 2016, Cedeno founded the Roger Cedeno Foundation in Aventura, Florida, an IRS designated 501 (c) (3) charitable organization Great Nonprofits Cedeno Foundation Profile and Fundacion Roger Cedeno in Venezuela to support organizations and programs to benefit youth and those most in need.\nPersonal life.\nCede\u00f1o's nephew, Yangervis Solarte, played infield for the San Francisco Giants. Cede\u00f1o convinced his agent to take Solarte on as a client as a personal favor."}
{"id": "715401", "revid": "589223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715401", "title": "Tersky District", "text": "Tersky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715403", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715403", "title": "Subhaschandra bose", "text": ""}
{"id": "715404", "revid": "42522270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715404", "title": "Troitsky District", "text": "Troitsky District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia:"}
{"id": "715405", "revid": "1588193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715405", "title": "Short-Range Attack Missile", "text": ""}
{"id": "715406", "revid": "36336112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715406", "title": "Ibn Tibbon", "text": "Ibn Tibbon () is a family of Jewish rabbis and translators that lived principally in Provence in the 12th and 13th centuries.\nProminent family members.\nProminent members of the family include:"}
{"id": "715407", "revid": "967656460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715407", "title": "Tselinny District, Russia", "text": "Tselinny District is the name of several administrative and municipal districts in Russia. The name is generally derived from, or is related to, the root \"tselina\" (\"virgin lands\")."}
{"id": "715408", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715408", "title": "Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose", "text": ""}
{"id": "715410", "revid": "51935727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715410", "title": "Jos\u00e9 Joaqu\u00edn de Olmedo International Airport", "text": "Jos\u00e9 Joaqu\u00edn de Olmedo International Airport (; ) is an international airport serving Guayaquil, the capital of the Guayas Province and the most populous city in Ecuador. It is the second busiest airport in Ecuador.\nThe airport was named after Jos\u00e9 Joaqu\u00edn de Olmedo, a notable Ecuadorian poet, first mayor of Guayaquil, and former president of Ecuador. It was changed from Sim\u00f3n Bol\u00edvar International Airport, which is currently the name of the airports in Caracas, Venezuela, and Santa Marta, Colombia.\nThe airport is on the Avenida de las Am\u00e9ricas, north of Guayaquil's centre. The runway length of includes a displaced threshold on Runway 21 and a displaced threshold on Runway 03. The runway can accommodate Boeing 747 and Airbus A340-600 aircraft. The airport is in the broad delta of the Guayas River, with level terrain in all quadrants.\nIn July 2014, the airport domestic area was enlarged; now the airport is capable of handling up to 7.5 million passengers per year. An exit tax is levied on all international tickets, however, it is no longer required to pay at the window when exiting the country.\nHistory.\nThe airport, which had the newest terminal in Ecuador, was renamed for Jos\u00e9 Joaqu\u00edn de Olmedo in 2006, in preparation for the inauguration of the new national and international terminal on 27 July 2006. Although there was an inaugural flight on 28 July 2006, most airlines did not operate completely from the new terminal until August 2006. After that date, the old terminal was closed and it was later turned into a convention center.\nThe construction of the new terminal and expansion of the runway was finally decided in 2003\u20132004, years after making the decision that the current infrastructure was not sufficient to cover the city's needs, but that it was not yet commercially viable to build an entirely new airport in the Daular area.\nThe original project in 2003\u20132004 contemplated the construction of a international terminal and the continuing operation of the old terminal, which would be left to handle only domestic flights. However, it was later decided that the newer terminal would handle both national and international traffic, and the older terminal would be closed.\nThe airport is planned to serve the city of Guayaquil for 10 to 15 years starting in 2006. After this, it is expected to reach a capacity of 5 million passengers a year, and when this happens a new airport will be built in the Daular area, some 20 kilometers outside the city, near the highway that connects Guayaquil to Salinas and other coastal towns.\nJos\u00e9 Joaqu\u00edn de Olmedo International Airport was named \"Best Airport in Latin America 2008 &amp; 2009\" by \"BusinessWeek\" and the second best in 2011. All domestic flights going from the Ecuadorian mainland to the Gal\u00e1pagos Islands make a stop in Guayaquil to refuel and pick up passengers due to its location, which is the closest point in Ecuador to the islands."}
{"id": "715412", "revid": "37546058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715412", "title": "Irish Examiner", "text": "The Irish Examiner, formerly The Cork Examiner and then The Examiner, is an Irish national daily newspaper which primarily circulates in the Munster region surrounding its base in Cork, though it is available throughout the country.\nHistory.\n19th and early 20th centuries.\nThe paper was founded by John Francis Maguire under the title \"The Cork Examiner\" in 1841 in support of the Catholic Emancipation and tenant rights work of Daniel O'Connell. Historical copies of \"The Cork Examiner\", dating back to 1841, are available to search and view in digitised form at the Irish Newspaper Archives website and British Newspaper Archive.\nDuring the Irish War of Independence and Irish Civil War, the \"Cork Examiner\" (along with other nationalist newspapers) was subject to censorship and suppression.\nAt the time of the Spanish Civil War, the \"Cork Examiner\" reportedly took a strongly pro-Franco tone in its coverage of the conflict. As of the early to mid-20th century, the newspaper reportedly catered to a \"socially-conservative reader base\" and reflected a \"conservative nationalist agenda\".\nRenaming and ownership.\nPublished as \"The Cork Examiner\" from 1841 until 1996, the newspaper was renamed \"The Examiner\" in 1996. Since 2000 it has been published as \"The Irish Examiner\", to appeal to a wider national readership.\nThe newspaper, along with 'sister paper' the \"Evening Echo\", was part of the Thomas Crosbie Holdings group. Thomas Crosbie Holdings went into receivership in March 2013. The newspaper was acquired by Landmark Media Investments.\n, its chief executive was Thomas J. Murphy, and its editor was Tim Vaughan. Vaughan left the group in August 2016.\nThe newspaper was based at Academy Street, Cork for over a century, before moving to new offices at Lapp's Quay, Cork in early November 2006, and subsequently to editorial offices at Blackpool, Cork, with a sales office in Oliver Plunkett Street.\nSale to \"The Irish Times\".\nIn February 2017, it was reported that Landmark Media Investments had appointed KPMG to advise on a range of options, including an Independent News and Media link with the \"Irish Examiner\".\nIn March 2017, it was reported that \"The Irish Times\" might bid for the \"Irish Examiner\", and by April 2017 both \"The Irish Times\" and INM had entered a sales process and signed non-disclosure agreements.\nIn May 2017, it was reported that Sunrise Media and \"The Irish Times\" were exploring an acquisition, and a sale was agreed to \"The Irish Times\" in December 2017, pending regulatory approval. The sale to \"The Irish Times\" was completed in July 2018.\nAs of 2021, its editorial policy has been described as centrist or conservative; the Eurotopics website described the political orientation of the \"Irish Examiner\" as liberal.\nIn July 2025, John O'Mahony was appointed as editor of the \"Irish Examiner\" and \"The Echo\".\nCirculation.\nAverage print circulation was approximately 57,000 copies per issue in 1990, had risen to 62,000 by 1999, had decreased to 50,000 by 2009, and was approximately 28,000 by 2017. Reflecting a changing trend in newspaper sales, the \"Examiner\" markets to advertisers on the basis of its print and online audience, stating in 2017 that \"236,000 people read the Irish Examiner in print or online every day\".\nThe Irish Examiner exited ABC circulation audits in 2020."}
{"id": "715413", "revid": "17240720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715413", "title": "Georgia on My Mind", "text": "\"Georgia on My Mind\" is a 1930 song written by Hoagy Carmichael and Stuart Gorrell, and first recorded that same year by Carmichael at the RCA Victor Studios at 155 East 24th Street in New York City. The song has been most often associated with singer Ray Charles, who was a native of the U.S. state of Georgia in The South of the United States, and recorded it for his 1960 album \"The Genius Hits the Road\".\nIn 1979, the State of Georgia through its General Assembly of Georgia (state legislature), designated Charles's version the official state song. The song has become part of the Great American Songbook tradition.\n\"Georgia on My Mind\" has been inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame twice. The first induction was in 1993 for the 1960 recording on the ABC-Paramount label by Charles. The second induction happened in 2014 for the earlier 1930 recording on the RCA Victor label by Carmichael and His Orchestra.\nThe original 1930 composition entered the American public domain on January 1, 2026.\nBackground and original recording.\nIt is generally asserted that composer Hoagy Carmichael wrote the song about his sister, Georgia. However, Carmichael wrote in his memoir \"Sometimes I Wonder\" that saxophonist Frankie Trumbauer suggested he should write a song called \"Georgia\", stating that no one ever lost anything writing about the \"South\" - never mentioning his sister.\nTrumbauer even gave him the first two words, \"Georgia, Georgia...\", which Carmichael ended up using while working later on the song with his roommate, Stuart Gorrell. Gorrell's name was absent from the copyright application papers submitted to the U.S. Copyright Office, but Carmichael sent him royalty checks afterwards anyway.\nCarmichael first recorded \"Georgia on My Mind\", with Bix Beiderbecke on cornet, in New York City on September 15, 1930.\nAll four had no connection to the state of Georgia. Trumbauer was from Illinois, Carmichael and Gorrell were both from Indiana, and Beiderbecke was from Iowa.\nRay Charles version and Georgia state connection.\nOver the coming years, the song would be recorded by many artists: Louis Armstrong, Coleman Hawkins, Mildred Bailey. Decades later it would be recorded by \"swing\" artists like Fats Waller, Django Reinhart, and Ethel Waters and \"big bands\" like Artie Shaw and Glen Miller.\nIt was not till 1960 (30 years after its release), Ray Charles recorded his version of the song that went to No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" magazine Hot 100. Charles's hit rendition would become the most widely-known version of the tune from this time on. Charles being born in Albany, Georgia along with his stellar performance, likely cemented the Georgia state connection.\nIn 1977, Robert Grossman, James Picker and Craig Whitaker created a clay animation short, \"Jimmy the C\", in which U.S. President Jimmy Carter sings in Ray Charles's version of the song.\nIn 1979, the song was designated the State Song of Georgia, and Charles was invited to perform it at the state capitol.\nThe TV series \"Designing Women\" used an instrumental version of \"Georgia on My Mind\" as its opening theme. During the opening credits of the show's sixth season in 1991, Charles performed his version of the song live on piano while the show's main cast (Dixie Carter, Annie Potts, Julia Duffy, Jan Hooks and Meshach Taylor) watched him.\nIn 2003, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine named the Ray Charles version of \"Georgia on My Mind\" the 44th greatest song of all time.\nThe original lyrics, including the commonly excised introductory verse, are in the Georgia Code under license.\nElla Fitzgerald version.\nIn 1962, famed jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald released a rendition of the song, produced by Norman Granz, on the album \"Ella Swings Gently with Nelson.\"\nThe Hawks/The Band version.\nThe song was a standard at performances by Ronnie Hawkins and The Hawks, where it was sung by pianist Richard Manuel after 1964. When The Hawks broke up and formed The Band, they kept the song in their repertoire. They recorded a studio version of the song for Jimmy Carter's presidential bid in 1976. It was released as a single that year as well as on their 1977 album \"Islands\".\nWillie Nelson version.\nWillie Nelson recorded the song on \"Stardust\", his 1978 album of standards. It was released as single, peaked at No. 1 for a single week, and ranked for sixteen weeks on Billboard\u2019s country charts. Nelson's version won him a Grammy Award in 1979 at the 21st Annual Grammy Awards for Best Country Vocal Performance, Male."}
{"id": "715414", "revid": "34989777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715414", "title": "Petrine theory", "text": ""}
{"id": "715416", "revid": "6289403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715416", "title": "Ulyanovsky", "text": "Ulyanovsky or Ulyanovskaya may refer to:"}
