{"id": "732361", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732361", "title": "Shalford, Surrey", "text": "Shalford is a village and civil parish in the Guildford district, in Surrey, England on the A281 Horsham road immediately south of Guildford. It has a railway station which is between Guildford and Dorking on the Reading to Gatwick Airport line. In 2011 the parish had a population of 4,142.\nIt has one named locality, occupying the west of the area, Peasmarsh.\nShalford's village sign was designed by Christopher Webb and W H Randall Blacking in 1922, as part of a competition run by the \"Daily Mail\". It shows Saint Christopher carrying the Christ Child over a shallow ford.\nHistory.\nShalford appears in the Domesday Book of 1086 as \"Scaldefor\". It was held by Robert de Wateville from Richard Fitz Gilbert. Its Domesday assets were: 4 hides; 1 church, 3 mills worth 16s, 11\u00bd ploughs, of meadow, wood worth 20 hogs. It rendered \u00a320.\nThe village also became well known for \"the Great Fair of Shalford\" which was set up by a charter issued by King John. In its heyday, it was said to have covered and attracted merchants from across the country.\nThe original church, mentioned in the Domesday survey, no longer exists. An early Victorian church now stands in its place. St Mary's was built in 1846 with a lychgate and stained glass. Many older cottages do survive. One of the finest properties, Shalford House, dated back to the Tudor period and featured a carved stone fireplace dated 1609. The house was demolished in 1967 to make way for a water treatment plant. There are many Grade II listed structures including stocks and whipping post.\nWorld War II.\nOn 11 April 1944 two goods trains collided at . One of them consisted of tankers of aviation fuel en route to airfields in Kent. Leaks from the damaged wagons caused a major fire which was eventually brought under control by the Fire Brigade, with assistance of members of the local police and Home Guard volunteers, who used sandbags to contain the spread of the burning fuel. Nearby properties, including a potato and vegetable store, were badly damaged as was the steel road bridge over the railway that was buckled by the heat. The local pub, the \"Queen Victoria\", escaped unharmed.\nGeography.\nThe River Tillingbourne joins the River Wey at Shalford adjacent to the parish church. For centuries, the river provided an important source of income for the village with various local industries, such the manufacture of gunpowder, utilising it as a source of power. Cranleigh Waters joins the Wey at the northern terminus of the Wey and Arun Canal. Shalford was a landing place for barges, and continues to be visited by boats today \u2013 but for pleasure rather than trade.\nThe surviving mill is now preserved as a tourist attraction: Shalford Mill, a Grade II* listed building, situated in the centre of the village opposite the \"Sea Horse\" public house, was built in the 18th century and is now owned by the National Trust.\nNotable residents.\nSome claim that the author of \"The Pilgrim's Progress\", John Bunyan, once lived in hiding in a cottage called \"Horn Hatch\" on Shalford Common and drew his inspiration from the fair held on the common and from the ancient route known as the Pilgrims' Way, which passes nearby, on its way to Canterbury.\nLt.Col. Henry Haversham Godwin-Austen (1834\u20131923), topographer, geologist, naturalist and explorer who surveyed the Himalayan region, including K2, sometimes known as Mt. Godwin-Austen, for a time had an estate in Shalford.\nA watercolour sketch titled 'In Captain Pierrepont's Grounds' was painted by Anthony Devis (1729\u20131817) not long after Captain William Pierrepont of acquired Shalford Manor in 1800.\nBrigadier George Roupell, a Victoria Cross recipient, died in Shalford in 1974.\nThe Genesis singer/drummer Phil Collins had a home in Shalford named \"Old Croft\", where he wrote music which would end up on his first solo album \"Face Value\", and also the Genesis album, \"Duke\".\nLocalities.\nPeasmarsh.\nThe settlement of Peasmarsh on the left bank of the river Wey between Artington and Godalming is contained in the parish. It consists of a retirement home; Astolat and Weyvern business parks; and four short residential roads close to the River Wey Navigation including \"Tilthams Green\". A woodland surrounding the rebuilt manor house, being higher up than most of the reclaimed marshland, is named Peas Marsh. A barn at Littlemarsh Farm, one at Tilthams Farm and Tilthams farmhouse are grade II listed. There is a C of E church; St Michael's. The water meadows form the Wey Valley SSSI.\nDemography and housing.\nThe average level of accommodation in the region composed of detached houses was 28%, the average that was apartments was 22.6%.\nThe proportion of households in the civil parish who owned their home outright compares to the regional average of 35.1%. The proportion who owned their home with a loan compares to the regional average of 32.5%. The remaining % is made up of rented dwellings (plus a negligible % of households living rent-free)."}
{"id": "732362", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732362", "title": "Reino Antero Hirvonen", "text": "Reino Antero Hirvonen (1908\u20131989) was a famous\nFinnish physical geodesist, also well known for\ncontributions in mathematical and astronomical geodesy.\nHe worked at first at the Finnish Geodetic Institute under W.A. Heiskanen on gravimetric geoid determination, publishing his dissertation \"The Continental Undulations of the Geoid\" in 1934 on the determination of a global geoid model from only 4500 data points.\nIn 1950 he succeeded Heiskanen as Professor of Geodesy at the Helsinki University of Technology.\nHe also took an active interest in astronomy, acting from 1956 to 1964 as a\nvice president of the Finnish amateur astronomical society Ursa.\nR.A. Hirvonen participated in the 1930s in the construction of triangulation towers, and measurements, for the first order triangulation of Finland. He also developed over the years many new mathematical algorithms for manual calculations (before the computer era), e.g., for calculating the Gauss-Kr\u00fcger map projection.\nIn 1947 he led a team of Finnish scientists to Brazil to measure the distance between South America and Africa. (T.J. Kukkam\u00e4ki was the leader of the team sent to, then, Gold Coast, Africa.) They succeed with measurements using a method based on observing from points in Brazil and Africa. They used the solar eclipse happening that year, which was visible in both Africa and South America. Using long focus film cameras and the most accurate available radio time signals for the solar eclipse measurements, they were able to calculate the distance between Africa and South America to a higher accuracy than ever before: 141 m.\n1951\u20131952 and 1954\u20131955 Hirvonen lectured in the Department of Geodetic Science at The Ohio State University, in Columbus, Ohio (USA). He educated the students about navigation using the stars as reference points. Later it helped the USA to fly to the moon.\nAwards.\nIn 1967 he received the Kaarina and Weikko A. Heiskanen Award (Ohio State University)."}
{"id": "732363", "revid": "1163976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732363", "title": "List of Party of Five episodes", "text": "\"Party of Five\" is an American television teen and family drama created by Christopher Keyser and Amy Lippman that premiered on Fox on September 12, 1994, and ended on May 3, 2000. A total of 142 episodes were produced, spanning six seasons.\nSeries overview.\n&lt;onlyinclude&gt;&lt;/onlyinclude&gt;"}
{"id": "732364", "revid": "323132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732364", "title": "Lord Walker of Worcester", "text": ""}
{"id": "732366", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732366", "title": "Baron Walker of Worcester", "text": ""}
{"id": "732367", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732367", "title": "Baron Archer of Sandwell", "text": ""}
{"id": "732370", "revid": "142694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732370", "title": "Mikhail Yakovlievich Voronin", "text": ""}
{"id": "732372", "revid": "1682816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732372", "title": "DHSS", "text": ""}
{"id": "732373", "revid": "19794574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732373", "title": "Valerius Cordus", "text": "Valerius Cordus (18 February 1515 \u2013 25 September 1544) was a German physician, botanist and pharmacologist who authored the first pharmacopoeia North of the Alps and one of the most celebrated herbals in history. He is also widely credited with developing a method for synthesizing ether (which he called by the Latin name \"oleum dulce vitrioli\", or \"sweet oil of vitriol\").\nCordus wrote prolifically, and identified and described several new plant species and varieties. The plant genus \"Cordia\" is named for him.\nLife.\nIn 1515, Valerius Cordus was born either in the city of Erfurt in what is today Thuringia, or somewhere in the westwardly adjacent state of Hesse. His father, Euricius Cordus (born Heinrich Ritze, 1486\u20131535), was an educated physician and an ardent Lutheran convert.\nValerius began his higher education in 1527, at the young age of 12, when he enrolled at the University of Marburg, studying botany and pharmacy under the tutelage of his father, who had been appointed professor of medicine at the newly established university in the same year. He completed his bachelor's degree in 1531, whereupon he furthered his studies by enrolling at the University of Leipzig, and by working at an apothecary shop in Leipzig owned by his uncle (either Johannes or Joachim).\nIn 1539 he relocated to Wittenberg in order to lecture and study medicine at the University of Wittenberg. His lectures proved popular, and his students' lecture notes were published posthumously in 1549 as \"Annotations on Dioscorides\". Among the research outlined in the lectures were the results of his own systematic observations of many of the same plants described by Pedanius Dioscorides in the 1st century CE. Direct observation of live specimens was one of Cordus' strengths.\nIn 1540 Cordus discovered and described a revolutionary technique for synthesizing ether, which involved adding sulfuric acid to ethyl alcohol.\nIn 1543, while on his way for a long trip in Italy, he presented his pharmacopoeia, \"Dispensatorium\", to the Nuremberg city council. The council paid him 100 gold guilders following the acceptance of the work in October of the same year, and had the work published posthumously in 1546.\nIn October 1543, Cordus left Nuremberg for Italy. He stayed in Padua and Venice during the winter and next spring. Shortly after Pentecost, he and two German naturalists started to traverse Italy, continuing in the height of summer. In the Maremma, on the Italian westcoast, they ventured into the marshes in search of novel plants. Soon after, Cordus exhibited what may have been the symptoms of malaria. He was also hit on the leg by a horse, causing great pain, and possibly an infection. The party brought the feverish Cordus to Rome, where they arrived on September 1 or 2. When Cordus showed signs of improvement, the rest embarked on a trip to Naples. Cordus, aged 29, died in their absence, on the evening of September 25. He was interred at Santa Maria dell'Anima, the German Catholic church in central Rome.\nLegacy.\nThroughout his short life, Cordus travelled extensively, visited many universities, and was widely acclaimed by his colleagues and other associates. He was an impressive linguist, and also spoke eloquently on philosophy. As a botanist, he observed with a breadth and depth that surpassed most of his contemporaries; as a scientist, his methodology was systematic and thorough.\nAfter the death of Cordus, Conrad Gessner published a considerable amount of Cordus' remaining unpublished work, including \"De Extractione\" (which featured Cordus' ether synthesis method), \"Historia stirpium\" and \"Sylva\" in 1561."}
{"id": "732376", "revid": "653548106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732376", "title": "CPAP machine", "text": ""}
{"id": "732378", "revid": "193093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732378", "title": "Baron Archer of Weston-Super-Mare", "text": ""}
{"id": "732379", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732379", "title": "Baron Archer of Weston-super-Mare", "text": ""}
{"id": "732380", "revid": "43252809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732380", "title": "Full Metal Panic", "text": ""}
{"id": "732381", "revid": "193093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732381", "title": "Lord Archer of Weston-super-Mare", "text": ""}
{"id": "732384", "revid": "299039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732384", "title": "Covenant (theology)", "text": ""}
{"id": "732386", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732386", "title": "Lady Jay of Paddington", "text": ""}
{"id": "732387", "revid": "64853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732387", "title": "Lord Gilmour of Craigmillar", "text": ""}
{"id": "732388", "revid": "4637213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732388", "title": "Covenant", "text": "Covenant may refer to:\nPolitics.\n'Covenant' is, in politics, used as near-equivalent of the term 'charter'; perhaps the most famous example is the Covenant of the League of Nations."}
{"id": "732389", "revid": "16078769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732389", "title": "Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People", "text": "The Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP), is a social movement organization representing the indigenous Ogoni people of Rivers State, Nigeria. The Ogoni contend that Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), along with other petroleum multinationals and the Nigerian government, have destroyed their environment, polluted their rivers, and provided no benefits in return for enormous oil revenues extracted from their lands.\nMOSOP is an umbrella organization representing about 700,000 Ogoni in a non-violent campaign for environmental justice in the Niger Delta. Peaceful demonstrations led by MOSOP and other indigenous groups in the region have been brutally suppressed by the Nigerian Mobile Police. Thousands of Ogoni were killed, raped, beaten, detained, or exiled. The Ogoni's challenge to state power was finally put down through the judicial murder of Ogoni leaders, including spokesman and founder Ken Saro-Wiwa, in November 1995.\nOil was discovered in the Niger delta in 1957. MOSOP was founded in 1990 by Ken Saro-Wiwa and Ogoni chiefs when they presented the Ogoni Bill of Rights to the Federal government of Nigeria and to the United Nations Working Group on Indigenous Peoples in Geneva.\nThe Ogoni protests under the leadership of MOSOP was an early and non-violent phase of the conflict in the Niger Delta.\nIn 1994, MOSOP, along with founder Ken Saro-Wiwa, received the Right Livelihood Award for their exemplary courage in striving non-violently for the civil, economic and environmental rights of their people.\nBackground.\nThe problems facing the Ogoni people have their origins in the British colonial era: the political borders of Nigeria are an artificial creation of British colonialism, with the result that nearly 300 ethnic groups are arbitrarily consolidated into a single nation-state. The Ogoni people are an ethnic micro-minority with only 500,000 people in a country of more than two hundred million. Nigerian politics are dominated by the Yoruba, Igbo, and Hausa\u2013Fulani ethnic groups. Nigeria gained independence from Britain in 1960, and has since been mostly ruled by unelected officials from these groups. The Ogoni lack political power and constitutional protections to control their land or wealth taken from it. Other ethnic groups in the Niger Delta are also ethnic minorities.\nUnequal distribution of oil benefits.\nNigeria's national government is completely dependent on oil exports, with oil accounting for 80% of government revenue. Shell is the largest stakeholder, owning 47% of the national industry. The World Bank estimates that oil benefits accrue to only 1% of the general population. A 1995 Human Rights Watch interview with attorney Uche Onyeagocha documented that minority groups whose land is the source of over 90% of Nigeria's oil opposed the prevailing formula for allocating oil revenues, under which the federal, state, and local governments had almost complete discretion over the distribution of oil proceeds.\nBy 1995, Ogoniland hosted six oil fields, two oil refineries, and fertilizer and petrochemical plants. MOSOP estimated that $30 billion worth of oil had been extracted from their land within 30 years of discovered reserves, and they had received no benefits but borne the ecological damages of oil production including numerous spills; constant flaring of natural gas; and dumping of toxic waste.\nCorruption.\nFormer World Bank Vice-President for Africa, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, estimated that $400 billion of Nigeria's oil revenue was stolen or misspent from 1960 to 1999. A Nigerian anti-corruption agency estimated that around 70% of oil revenues were wasted or lost to corruption. Nuhu Ribadu's Task Force on Oil Revenue found that approximately $29 billion in oil and gas revenues were lost over a period of ten years from cut price deals struck between multinational oil companies and government officials. The report alleges international oil traders sometimes buy crude without any formal contracts, and the state oil firm had short-changed the Nigerian treasury by selling crude oil and gas to itself below market rates.\nEnvironmental issues in the Niger Delta.\nBeginning in the late 1950s, multinational oil companies began taking over land belonging to Indigenous farming and fishing communities in the Niger Delta, resulting in environmental devastation. MOSOP spokesman Ken Saro-Wiwa called it an 'ecological war':\nThe Ogoni country has been completely destroyed... Oil blowouts, spillages, oil slicks, and general pollution accompany the search for oil... Oil companies have flared gas in Nigeria for the past thirty three years causing acid rain... What used to be the bread basket of the delta has now become totally infertile. All one sees and feels around is death. Environmental degradation has been a lethal weapon in the war against the indigenous Ogoni people.\nBoth Shell and Chevron have operated oil wells in Ogoniland.\nOil spills.\nStatistics from the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) indicate that between 1976 and 1996 a total of 4,835 incidents resulted in the spillage of at over 2.4 million barrels of oil (102.7 million U.S. gallons), of which an estimated 1.9 million barrels (79.7 million U.S. gallons; 77 percent) were lost to the environment. Nigeria's largest spill was an offshore well blowout in January 1980, when at least 200,000 barrels of oil (8.4 million U.S. gallons), according to oil industry sources, spewed into the Atlantic Ocean from a Texaco facility and destroyed of mangroves. Mangrove forest is particularly vulnerable to oil spills, because the soil soaks up the oil like a sponge and re-releases it every rainy season. DPR estimated that more than 400,000 barrels (16.8 million U.S. gallons) were actually spilled in this incident. Water contamination of local water supply resulted in fish kills and ruinous effects on farmland.\nGas flaring.\nNigeria flares more natural gas associated with oil extraction than any other country, with estimates about 70% is wasted by flaring. This is the equivalent to 40% of Africa's gas consumption in 2001. Statistical data associated with gas flaring are notoriously unreliable, but Nigeria may waste US$2 billion per year by flaring associated gas. Flaring is done, because it is costly to separate commercially viable associated gas from the oil. Companies operating in Nigeria also harvest natural gas for commercial purposes but prefer to extract it from deposits where it is found in isolation as non-associated gas. Thus associated gas is burned off to decrease costs.\nGas flares are potentially harmful to nearby communities, as they release poisonous chemicals including nitrogen dioxides, sulphur dioxide, volatile organic compounds, as well as carcinogens. These chemicals can aggravate asthma, cause breathing difficulties and pain, as well as chronic bronchitis.\nGas flares are often close to communities and regularly lack fencing or protection for villagers who risk working near their heat. Many communities claim that nearby flares cause acid rain which corrodes their homes and other structures, many of which have zinc-based roofing. Some people resort to using asbestos-based material, which is stronger in repelling acid rain deterioration. Unfortunately, asbestos exposure increases the risk of forming lung cancer, pleural and peritoneal mesothelioma, and asbestosis.\nEffects on Ogoni people.\nIn describing the effects of these environmental damages upon his people, the President of MOSOP, Dr. Garrick Barile Leton stated in 1991 that,\nLands, streams and creeks are totally and continually polluted; the atmosphere is for ever charged with hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide; many villages experience the infernal quaking of the wrath of gas flares which have been burning 24 hours a day for 33 years; acid rain, oil spillages and blowouts are common. The result of such unchecked environmental pollution and degradation are that (i) The Ogoni can no longer farm successfully. Once the food basket of the eastern Niger Delta, the Ogoni now buy food (when they can afford it); (ii) Fish, once a common source of protein, is now rare. Owing to the constant and continual pollution of our streams and creeks, fish can only be caught in deeper and offshore waters for which the Ogoni are not equipped. (iii) All wildlife is dead. (iv) The ecology is changing fast. The mangrove tree, the aerial roots of which normally provide a natural and welcome habitat for many a sea food \u2013 crabs, periwinkles, mudskippers, cockles, mussels, shrimps and all \u2013 is now being gradually replaced by unknown and otherwise useless plants. (v) The health hazards generated by an atmosphere charged with hydrocarbon vapour, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide are innumerable.\nEarly protests.\nIn 1970, Ogoni Chiefs and Elders of the Ogoni Divisional Commission (W. Nzidee, F. Yowika, N. Ndegwe, E. Kobani, O. Nalelo, Chief A. Ngei and O. Ngofa), submitted a petition to the local Military Governor as a formal complaint against Shell, then operating a joint venture with BP. It brought notice that the company was \"seriously threatening the well-being, and even the very lives\" of the Ogoni.\nShell's response was that the petition was an attempt to place development and other responsibilities on the company and that the \"contentions ... bear little relation to what is actually taking place\".\nIn July 1970, there was a major blow-out at the Bomu oil field in Ogoni, which continued for three weeks, causing widespread pollution and outrage. P. Badom, of the Dere Youths Association, issued a letter of protest, stating:\n\"Our rivers, rivulets and creeks are all covered with crude oil. We no longer breathe the natural oxygen, rather we inhale lethal and ghastly gases. Our water can no longer be drunk unless one wants to test the effect of crude oil on the body. We no longer use vegetables, they are all polluted.\"\nThe Iko people wrote to Shell in 1980 demanding \"compensation and restitution of our rights to clean air, water and a viable environment where we can source for our means of livelihood\".\nIn 1987, when the Iko once again held a peaceful demonstration against Shell, the Mobile Police Force (MPF) destroyed 40 houses, and 350 people were made homeless.\nHistory.\nMOSOP was the outgrowth of such protests during the 1970s and 1980s. Ken Saro-Wiwa initiated the idea of MOSOP and attracted a mix of educated Ogoni elites and chiefs, including its first president Dr. Garrick Barile Leton. Goodluck Diigbo, President of the National Youth Council of Ogoni People, (NYCOP) established seven of the ten affiliates that made up MOSOP. Chief E. N. Kobani became vice president of MOSOP.\nMOSOP's first effort was the 1990 Ogoni Bill of Rights addressed to the federal government, the people of Nigeria, and as an appeal to the international community. The Ogoni demands were: political autonomy to participate in the affairs of the Republic as a distinct and separate unit, provided that this autonomy guaranteed political control of Ogoni affairs by Ogoni people; the right to control and use a fair proportion of Ogoni economic resources for Ogoni development; adequate representation in Nigerian national institutions; and the right to protect the Ogoni environment and ecology from further degradation. Military president Ibrahim Babangida, made no reply to these demands.\nOgoni Bill of Rights.\nIn August 1990, the Ogoni elders signed the Ogoni Bill of Rights, demanding \"political control of Ogoni affairs by Ogoni people, control and use of Ogoni economic resources for Ogoni development, adequate and direct representation as a right for Ogoni people in all Nigerian national institutions, and the right to protect the Ogoni environment and ecology from further degradation.\"\nMOSOP presented the Bill of Rights to several parties: the Federal government of Nigeria; the United Nations Working Group on Indigenous Peoples in Geneva; the UN sub-committee on Human Rights; the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights; and Greenpeace. The Ogoni case was also presented to the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization in 1993.\nThey also stated that Shell bore \u201cfull responsibility for the genocide of the Ogoni.\u201d\nThe Bill summaraised the sufferings of the Ogoni peoples and their political marginalisation and neglect by the government. They also defined themselves as \"a separate and distinct ethnic nationality\", and demanded participation in national affairs as \"a distinct and separate unit\".\nThe Ogoni Bill of Rights stated that:The Ogoni people will make representation to the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to the effect that giving loans and credit to the Nigerian Government on the understanding that oil money will be used to repay such loans is to encourage the Nigerian government to continue to dehumanise the Ogoni people and to devastate the environment and ecology of the Ogoni and other delta minorities among whom oil is found.\nThe Ogoni people will inform the United Nations and the Organisation of African Unity that the Nigerian Constitution and the actions of the power elite in Nigeria flagrantly violate the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the African Charter of Human and Peoples Rights; and that Nigeria in 1992 is no different from Apartheid South Africa. The Ogoni people will ask that Nigeria be duly chastised by both organizations for its inhuman actions and uncivilized behaviour. And if Nigeria persists in its perversity, then it should be expelled from both organizations.\nEarly uprisings 1990\u201393.\nUmuechem protests.\nIn late October, 1990, protests at a Shell facility in the Umuechem community of Etche brought the situation in the Niger Delta to international attention. In anticipation of the protests, Shell requested the presence of the paramilitary MPF, who killed approximately 80 unarmed demonstrators and destroyed or severely damaged 495 houses. A government inquiry later found that villagers posed no threat and concluded that the MPF's violence was in \"reckless disregard for lives and property.\u201d\nOgoni uprising.\nFrom 1990 to 1993, MOSOP responded to the failure of previous petitions to elicit a response from the government or the oil companies by increasingly asserting their right to self-determination and their right to confront the oil companies directly. MOSOP leaders campaigned amongst various local clans and mounted media campaigns, promising monetary compensation for damages if their campaign succeeded.\nIn 1992, the conflict escalated as MOSOP demanded that Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), Chevron, and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), pay $10 billion in compensation to Ogoni people, immediately stop environmental degradation, and negotiate with Ogoni people to reach acceptable terms for further oil extraction. If the companies failed to comply within 30 days, the Ogonis threatened mass action to disrupt their operations. By this act, the Ogonis shifted the focus of their actions from an unresponsive federal government to oil companies actively engaged in their own region.\nShell withdrawal.\nIn January 1993, the national government responded by banning public gatherings and declaring that disturbances of oil production were acts of treason. In spite of the ban, MOSOP went ahead with a massive public mobilization on January 4, 1993. The event, called the first Ogoni Day, attracted about 300,000 people in massive festivities. Saro-wiwa and other MOSOP leaders were arrested. Over the next month as the mobilization continued, a Shell employee was beaten by an Ogoni mob. As a security measure, Shell Petroleum Development Company withdrew its employees from Ogoniland. Oil extraction from the territory slowed to (.5% of the national total).\nIn June 1993, the Ogoni boycotted presidential elections.\nOgoni-Andoni violence.\nOn July 9, at least 60 Ogoni people were killed, allegedly by Andoni, when arriving back from the Cameroon Republic by boat. This \"incident\" marked the beginning of Ogoni-Andoni violence. On August 5, Kaa became the first village attacked in the Andoni-Ogoni conflict, resulting in 33 deaths and 8,000 refugees. Over the coming months, similar incidents occurted in over 20 other villages. MOSOP accuses Shell of being behind the Andoni-Ogoni violence.\nExecution of Ken Saro-Wiwa and the Ogoni Nine (1994).\nOn May 21, 1994, four Ogoni chiefs (all on the conservative side of a schism within MOSOP over strategy) were murdered. Saro-Wiwa (head of the radical faction), was detained in connection with the killings, although he had been denied entry to Ogoniland on the day of the murders. Rivers State Military Administrator Lt. Col. Dauda Komo did not wait for a judicial investigation to blame the killings on \"irresponsible and reckless thuggery of the MOSOP element\".\nWitnesses said that Rivers State Internal Security engaged in terror operations against the general Ogoni population while claiming to search for people responsible for the killings of the four Ogoni leaders. Amnesty International characterized the policy as deliberate terrorism. By mid-June, 30 villages had been completely destroyed, 600 people had been detained, and at least 40 had been killed. An eventual total of around 100,000 internal refugees and an estimated 2,000 civilian deaths was recorded.\nArrest and summary execution of Ogoni nine.\nKen Saro-Wiwa, N. G. Dube, and Kobari Nwilewas were arrested in Port Harcourt on June 21, 1993. The three were charged on 13 July 1993 with six counts relating to unlawful assembly, seditious intention and seditious publication. Bail was not set and all three remanded in custody until September 20.\nOn November 10, 1995, nine activists from the movement, Barinem Kiobel, John Kpunien, Baribor Bera, Saturday Dobee, Felix Nwate, Nordu Eawo, Paul Levura, and Daniel Gbokoo along Ken Saro-Wiwa, were hanged 10 days after being convicted by the Nigerian government on charges of \"incitement to murder\" of the four Ogoni leaders. In the final address to the military-appointed tribunal, Saro-Wiwa describes the actions of Shell Corporation as war crimes against the Ogoni People:\nI repeat that we all stand before history. I and my colleagues are not the only ones on trial. Shell is here on trial and it is as well that it is represented by counsel said to be holding a watching brief. The Company has, indeed, ducked this particular trial, but its day will surely come and the lessons learnt here may prove useful to it for there is no doubt in my mind that the ecological war that the Company has waged in the Delta will be called to question sooner than later and the crimes of that war be duly punished. The crime of the Company's dirty wars against the Ogoni people will also be punished.\n\"Excerpt from:\" \nAn anonymous interview revealed a first hand telling of that day and the events that took place;Everywhere was quiet and then on the morning of May 21st ... as we woke up in the morning most of the Ogoni communities were filled with soldiers and mobile policemen armed with sophisticated weapons. We don\u2019t (sic) know why they just came, it was only when four prominent Ogoni sons were killed later in the afternoon of that day that we in Ogoni ever knew that there was a grand design to cause disturbances in Ogoni in order to create an excuse for the government to send in more troops\nInternational response.\nSaro-Wiwa's death provoked international outrage and the immediate suspension of Nigeria from the Commonwealth of Nations as well as the withdrawal of many foreign diplomats from Nigeria. According to the Nigerian Medical Association's President, these were the fastest executions in the West African nation's history. Nigerian human rights activists and opposition groups had long urged the Commonwealth and the United States to impose economic sanctions on the Nigerian government. This they argued was the opportune time to \"turn the screws on\" Nigeria's military government by boycotting its oil. The United States, which buys half of Nigeria's oil, declined through a press statement.\n1994\u2013present.\nOn January 4, 1994, Ogoni national day, the Rivers State Internal Security Task Force (RVISTF), arrested dozens of activists and raided several villages.\nDemands for Saro-Wiwa's exoneration.\nOn November 10, 2014, MOSOP President Legborsi Saro Pyagbara, at the 19th anniversary commemoration of the \"Ogoni Martyrs\" held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, called on the federal government to clear the late activist, Ken Saro-Wiwa, and the other nine Ogoni people executed by General Sani Abacha's government for murder. Pyagbara recalled that the UN, which monitored the trial of Saro-Wiwa and the Ogoni Nine, observed that the returned verdict did not follow any known local or international standard.\nCompelling new evidence suggests the Nigerian military killed four Ogoni elders whose murders led to the execution of the playwright and activist Ken Saro-Wiwa in 1995. The evidence also reveals that the notorious military commander Lieutenant-Colonel Paul Okuntimo, whose troops were implicated in other crimes, was in the pay of Shell at the time of the killings and was driven around in a Shell vehicle."}
{"id": "732390", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732390", "title": "Baron Gilmour of Craigmillar", "text": ""}
{"id": "732391", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732391", "title": "Lady Williams of Crosby", "text": ""}
{"id": "732392", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732392", "title": "Lord Dahrendorf", "text": ""}
{"id": "732394", "revid": "38455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732394", "title": "Uppsala Cathedral", "text": "Uppsala Cathedral () is a cathedral located between the University Hall of Uppsala University and the Fyris river in the centre of Uppsala, Sweden. A church of the Church of Sweden, the national church, in the Lutheran tradition, Uppsala Cathedral is the seat of the Archbishop of Uppsala, the primate of Sweden. It is also the burial site of King Eric IX (c. 1120\u20131160, reigned 1156\u20131160), who became the patron saint of the nation, and it was the traditional location for the coronation of new Kings of Sweden. The current archbishop is Martin Mod\u00e9us and the current bishop is Karin Johannesson.\nThe cathedral dates to the late 13th century and, at a height of , it is the tallest church in the Nordic countries. Originally built under Roman Catholicism, it was used for coronations of Swedish monarchs for a lengthy period following the Protestant Reformation. Several of its chapels were converted to house the tombs of Swedish monarchs, including Gustav Vasa and John III. Carl Linnaeus, Olaus Rudbeck, Emanuel Swedenborg, and several archbishops are also buried here.\nThe church was designed in the French Gothic style by French architects including \u00c9tienne de Bonneuil. It is in the form of a cross formed by the nave and transept. Most of the structure was built between 1272 and 1420 but the western end was completed only in the middle of the 15th century. Twin towers were built shortly afterwards on the west end of the church. High spires were added later, but after a fire in 1702, they were adorned with low helms by Carl H\u00e5rleman in 1735. They were completely redesigned by Helgo Zetterwall who undertook substantial changes to the building in the 1880s. The cathedral's principal construction material is brick but the pillars and many details are of Gotland limestone.\nThe vaults were all built according to the original 13th-century plan although some of them were erected as late as around 1440. In addition to the artwork in the funeral chapels, several of the church's older furnishings can be seen in the Treasury Museum. In 1702, many features were destroyed in a major fire. During the renovation work carried out in the 1970s, many of the medieval frescoes which had been whitewashed over after the Reformation were uncovered and restored.\nHistory.\nAt the end of the Viking Age, the pagan temple at Gamla Uppsala (Old Uppsala), about to the north of today's Uppsala, was replaced by a Christian church. Although the exact date of its construction is not known, in 1123 Siward was ordained Bishop of Uppsala by the Archbishop of Bremen-Hamburg. It is however uncertain if Siward ever assumed office, as he had been expelled and was in Germany in the early 1130s. The catalogue of bishops mentions Severeinus as the first bishop, and he may have been the replacement for Siward. Henrik, 'Finland's Apostle', was the fourth bishop. In 1164, Sweden became an archbishopric under the control of Lund. The first archbishop was the Cistercian monk Stefan of Alvastra.\nAfter the cathedral in Gamla Uppsala was damaged by fire in 1204, the Chapter sought permission from the Holy See to move the building to a larger site. Pope Alexander IV granted this request in 1258 on condition that the name of Uppsala be maintained. At a meeting in S\u00f6derk\u00f6ping in September 1270, Archbishop Fulco Angelus and the cathedral chapter decided the site should be in \u00d6stra Aros. Formal authorization of the move was issued in 1271 by Bishop Carolus of V\u00e4ster\u00e5s whom the Pope had appointed to oversee the case.\nAbout 1272, work began on building a new cathedral in \u00d6stra Aros near the Fyris River to the south. It was constructed on the site of the earlier stone church dedicated to the Holy Trinity, located almost exactly where the cathedral's chancel now stands. It was here that Sweden's patron saint Eric Jedvardsson had attended mass before he was murdered in 1160. The name of Uppsala was kept, and the surrounding town \u00d6stra Aros soon changed its name accordingly. The relics of Saint Eric, the treasure of Uppsala, were moved from Gamla Uppsala to the new site in 1273, along with the formal move of the archbishopric. The church was designed by French architects although the name of the author of the detailed initial plans who supervised work until 1281 has not been recorded. In 1287, a promissory note drawn up by the provost of Paris covers the expenses to be incurred by master builder \u00c9tienne de Bonneuil and his assistants in travelling to Sweden to work on the construction of a cathedral at Uppsala. \u00c9tienne is credited with work at the east and south chapels of the chancel, the transepts and probably the south portal, although in most of his work he appears to have meticulously followed the plans of his predecessor. Progress was slow as a result of the cold climate, the plague and many financial difficulties. It was not until the end of the 14th century that work on the initial plans was completed, thanks in particular to the contribution of the master builder Nikolaus fr\u00e5n V\u00e4ster\u00e5s who began construction of the nave.\nWhen consecrated in 1435 by Archbishop Olaus Laurentii, the cathedral still was not complete. It was dedicated to Saint Lawrence, highly cherished in all of Sweden at that time; Saint Eric, the patron saint of Sweden (though never canonised by the Roman Catholic Church); and Saint Olaf, the patron saint of Norway. It was completed over the following decades. Although there are no documentary records of the consecration, there are several references from the same period to the cathedral's chapels, including their altars which were dedicated to the Holy Cross, to the Virgin Mary or to other saints. The last main component of the cathedral, the towers, were built between 1470 and 1489. The cathedral was damaged by fire on several occasions, especially during the great fire of 1702 which destroyed much of the city. Restoration work was not completed until the middle of the century.\nThe church was not the regular place of worship of laypeople until the Reformation. It was reserved for official services of the Catholic Church hierarchy (by the cathedral's canons). The parish churches in Uppsala were the Holy Trinity Church or \"Bondkyrkan\", 'Peasant Church', as it was often called; Church of Saint Peter; Church of Our Lady; and a Franciscan friary. The last three had been built on the east side of the Fyris River, which was the central business district, and remains so to date. They were successively torn down during the Reformation. The cathedral was also the coronation church for many of Sweden's kings and queens until 1719. It was the site of celebrating coronations from the Middle Ages until the end of the 17th century. Stockholm's Cathedral \"Storkyrkan\" became the official coronation church.\nFrom 1885 to 1893, the architect Helgo Zettervall (1831\u20131907) undertook comprehensive restoration work, seeking to give the cathedral a French High Gothic appearance although he has been criticized for not respecting the building's original Baltic Gothic style. He also added pointed French spires to the towers, bringing the cathedral up to a height of , so making it as high as it was long. In an attempt to give the cathedral a slimmer appearance, Zettervall significantly altered large portions of the medieval outer brick walls and removed the decorative white-washed 'blind windows' on the gables which had been similar to those on the nearby Holy Trinity Church.\nFurther renovation work in the early 1970s led to improvements in the building's structure and included restoration of the walls and windows. Large portions of cement additions by Zettervall to the exterior structure of the cathedral were removed decades later as they adversely affected the building's fabric. In 1989, Pope John Paul II took part in an ecumenical service in Uppsala Cathedral with Archbishop Bertil Werkstr\u00f6m. Fire protection equipment was installed in 2010 and the electrical and heating systems have been replaced.\nBetween 2019 and 2021, the Uppsala Cathedral underwent a major restoration of its twin spire crowns and crosses. The structures - measuring 10 meters high, 3.5 meters wide, and weighing 4.2 tons - were originally installed in 1889 and made of cast iron, showed significant signs of corrosion and cracking, prompting concerns about their structural integrity. Following an inspection in 2015, a restoration project was initiated to ensure the safety and longevity of these prominent architectural features.\nThe restoration involved removing the original elements, performing detailed structural analyses, and casting new components using modern ductile iron to replicate the originals while improving durability. The work was carried out by Swedish research institutes and foundries, with new parts designed to maintain the historical appearance while enhancing resistance to moisture and rust. The reinstallation of the spires began in May 2021, and the original crosses were returned to their positions later that summer. The project was completed in autumn 2021.\nArchitecture.\nThe cathedral is the tallest church building in Scandinavia. Its height of is the same as its length while it has a breadth of . The height inside is . The church was designed in the French High Gothic style by French master builders including \u00c9tienne de Bonneuil. Built high on a gravel ridge southwest of the River Fyris, its Latin cross ground plan consists of a three-aisled basilica (a central nave flanked by two lateral aisles) with single-aisle transepts, and a four-bay chancel with an ambulatory surrounded by five chapels. The seven-bay nave is bordered by chantry chapels on either side. Starting with the eastern end of the church and the chapels surrounding the chancel, most of the structure was built between 1270 and 1420 but the western end of the nave was completed only in the middle of the 15th century while the towers took decades more to complete. The principal material is red brick but the cathedral was built on a stone foundation and the chancel pillars and many details are of Gotland limestone. (The nave pillars were originally of brick but were replaced with limestone as part of the restoration work carried out under Helgo Zettervall from 1885 to 1893.)\nThe twin towers at the west end of the church were first mentioned in 1563. Several additions to both the interior and exterior of the church were made after a fire in 1572 under the leadership of Franciscus Pahr, known for his work on castles. The turret and pinnacles which can be seen in older drawings were added as well as the first spires on the west towers which were designed by Antonius Watz. In the 1690s, Nicodemus Tessin designed a new burial chapel to the east of the south transept, the most significant alteration to the plan of the cathedral since the Middle Ages. From the outside, his design respected the traditions of medieval architecture with tall Gothic windows but the interior was decorated in Tessin's usual Classical Baroque style.\nIn the 17th century, the towers were redesigned in the Dutch Renaissance style but after the serious fire of 1702 they were temporarily replaced by low wooden tops. At the same time, the buttresses were removed giving the cathedral the rather plain look conveyed by pictures of the period. Only in 1740 were copper-faced spires installed, designed by Carl H\u00e5rleman. At the same time, H\u00e5rleman carried out significant work on the west fa\u00e7ade. Today's towers are the work of Helgo Zettervall who completely rebuilt them in the 1880s, substantially increasing their height. After the serious fire of 1702, the original flying buttresses were removed and a higher roof was built.\nAlthough the cathedral was designed by French architects, it exhibits a number of differences from the cathedrals of northern France. Above all, it is essentially constructed of brick rather than stone. Brick could easily be produced locally but stone had to be imported from the distant quarries of Gotland. As bricks and mortar are not as strong as stone, the walls had to be thicker although the pillars needed to support the vaulted ceiling of the chancel were made of limestone (although those in the nave are of brick). The north transept portal is also built of limestone, no doubt as it was needed to support the rose window, also structured in limestone itself. While the chancel and the transept are clearly of French design, the nave which was built somewhat later displays German and Swedish characteristics. Constructed in about 1330, the rose window over the northeast portal is still entirely French. Nicolaus from V\u00e4ster\u00e5s, the Swede who directed work on the nave from the 1360s, appears to have slightly modified the original plans, adding confessional side-chapels and including a few features of German origin. Cross-vaults were nevertheless installed, rather than star-shaped vaults which were more common at the time. Work on the western end of the building began in 1431 with the construction of the west portal which was influenced by the style of Vadstena Abbey. The towers, however, still exhibited features typical of 13th-century French architecture, indicating that the original plans were still in use at the time. Overall, despite minor differences, Uppsala Cathedral still reflects the style of the 13th-century cathedrals of northern France.\nInterior.\nThe Coronation Vault stands above the point at which the transept crosses the nave. It is where most of Sweden's monarchs were crowned from the Middle Ages until 1719. During the restoration in the 1880s, the interior ceiling and walls of the cathedral were decorated in the Neo-Gothic style. Some depictions, such as one of the Reformation's Martin Luther, added figures beyond the cathedral's medieval heritage. During the renovation work carried out in the 1970s, many of the medieval frescoes which had been whitewashed over after the Reformation were uncovered and restored. The high altar is used for the cathedral's services on the most important feast days in the church calendar. It is also here that all Swedish bishops are ordained. The silver chandelier is from 1647. The large crucifix in silver and crystal from Orrefors was installed in 1976.\nChapels.\nThe cathedral's largest chapel, the Vasa Chapel, at the eastern end of the chancel, was originally known as the Chapel of the Virgin Mary. It later became a burial monument for Gustav Vasa and his family. Completed in 1583, it is decorated with the national arms of Sweden as well as with some of the oldest known Swedish and Finnish coats of arms. The Finsta Chapel or St Eric's Chapel on the north-west corner of the chancel houses the relics of Eric the Holy, the patron saint of Sweden, who was killed in 1160 on the site where Uppsala Cathedral was later built. His shrine was moved from the first cathedral in Gamla Uppsala as soon as work began on the new building. In 1580, King John III melted his shrine down but replaced it with a new gold-plated one which still contains Eric's relics and crown. The name Finsta originates from the Uppland estate where Judge Birger Persson and his wife were born. They were entombed in the chapel in 1328. A relic of their daughter Saint Bridget housed in a small gold-plated shrine was donated by the Saint Bridget Order in 1990.\nNext to the Finsta Chapel, the Sture Chapel is the memorial tomb of the three members of the Sture family who were murdered by King Eric XIV in 1567. The reredos (1520) depicts the story of Mary's parents, Anne and Joachim. At the end of the 16th century, the church's sacristy was converted into a burial chapel for Queen Catherine Jagiellon or Katarina Jagiellonica, the wife of King John III, who is also entombed there. The Jagellonica Chapel takes its name from her. The monument, crowned by a marble vault, was designed by Willem Boy.\nWindows.\nSeveral windows maintain their original shape and size. The original stained-glass decorations were almost all lost in the 1702 fire and were simply replaced by normal glass. The current stained-glass designs were added during the renovation at the end of the 19th century, most of them by the Gothenburg firm, Svenska Glasm\u00e5leri. The large windows above the portals depict the Trinity: God the Father over the west door, God the Son above the south door (the largest in the church), and God the Holy Spirit above the north door. Crafted in limestone, the rose window at the north portal is the oldest, unchanged since the 13th century.\nTreasury and artefacts.\nLocated in the north tower, the cathedral Treasury Museum displays a number of gold and silver articles used in the religious services. There is also a collection of textiles including Queen Margaret's golden gown. The burial regalia of Gustav Vasa, John III and their wives can also be seen.\nOther artefacts in the cathedral include tapestries in the Chapel of Remembrance from 1976 which record important events in the cathedral's history. The ornate pulpit (1710), the largest in Sweden, was designed by Nicodemus Tessin and carved by Burchard Precht. It was a gift from Queen Hedvig Eleonora after the fire of 1702. Decorations include John the Baptist preaching in the desert, Saint Paul in Athens and the parable of the Labourers in the Vineyard.\nOne of the new bells installed after the devastating fire of 1702 is called Thornan. It was taken from Toru\u0144, Poland as war booty in 1703 by the Swedish forces of Carl XII during the Great Northern War.\nIn the Vasa Chapel, there are seven large fresco paintings executed by Johan Gustaf Sandberg (1782\u20131854) over a period of several years. They depict important events in the life of Gustav Vasa. One of the most famous is \"Talet till dalkarlarna vid Mora kyrka\" (Speech to the people of Dalarna outside Mora Church). Frescos also decorate the vaults of the nave.\nInitially, as in some of the continental cathedrals, the interior was decorated with designs emphasizing the arch ribs and portal components. Even the brick was painted with red and white stripes. In the 15th century, frescos of figures in the Late Gothic style with decorative vine leaves were painted in various parts of the church. Traces of these have been found in the chancel and in the chapel which was originally dedicated to St Eric and St Olaf. They have now been heavily restored. The frescos in the chancel were probably painted by Albertus Pictor's workshop.\n\"Judensau\".\nThe cathedral features a \"Judensau\" (\"Jews' sow\") that depicts several Jewish men suckling a pig. The Uppsala \"Judensau\" is likely the work of a travelling German artist, given the popularity of the antisemitic motif in German-speaking lands.\nInterred notables.\nA number of Swedish monarchs and other notable people were buried inside the cathedral:\nDag Hammarskj\u00f6ld memorial.\nIn the cathedral there is a small memorial to Dag Hammarskj\u00f6ld, former Secretary-General of the United Nations, who was posthumously awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. A stone bears the inscription:\n&lt;poem&gt;\nIcke jag\nutan Gud i mig\nThe English translation is \"Not I, but God in me.\"\nOpen to visitors.\nThe cathedral is located on Domkyrkoplan in the centre of Uppsala. It is open to visitors most days from 8 am to 6 pm. The Treasury Museum in the north tower is open from 10 am to 4 pm, Sundays from 12.30 pm."}
{"id": "732395", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732395", "title": "Baron Attenborough", "text": ""}
{"id": "732396", "revid": "29077096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732396", "title": "Bill Kenwright", "text": "William Kenwright (4 September 1945 \u2013 23 October 2023) was an English theatre and film producer. He was also the chairman of Everton Football Club for nearly two decades, from 2004 until his death in 2023.\nEarly life.\nKenwright was born in Liverpool and attended Booker Avenue County Primary School, and then Liverpool Institute High School for Boys (predecessor to LIPA) from 1957 to 1964. He was treasurer of the Christian Union at school.\nKenwright was a judge in the 2007 BBC One television series \"Any Dream Will Do\".\nTheatre.\nAs a theatre producer, Kenwright is best known for the long-running West End hit \"Blood Brothers\" and the record-breaking UK tour of \"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat\". Other productions have included West End runs of \"Whistle Down the Wind\" at the Palace Theatre, \"Festen\" in London, on a UK tour and on Broadway, \"The Big Life\", \"Elmina's Kitchen\", \"Scrooge \u2013 The Musical\", \"The Night of the Iguana\", \"A Few Good Men\", \"A Man For All Seasons\" alongside UK tours of \"Jesus Christ Superstar\", \"Tommy\", \"Tell Me on a Sunday\" and \"This is Elvis\". He produced the London revival of \"Cabaret\" at the Lyric Theatre in September 2006, starring Anna Maxwell Martin, James Dreyfus and Sheila Hancock.\nKenwright helped start the careers of many current West End theatre producers, including Mark Rubinstein and Marc Sinden. It has been estimated that he employed more actors in a year than any employer other than the BBC.\nKenwright also directed many productions, including \"Blood Brothers\", \"Whistle Down the Wind\"; he was asked by Andrew Lloyd Webber to make changes to the direction of \"Love Never Dies\". Bill Kenwright additionally produced and directed the 2018/19 UK touring production of \"Saturday Night Fever\", in which Richard Winsor (as the preliminary Tony Manero) perceived the symbolic \"Stayin' Alive\" dance spectacle as \"The Kneebreaker\" and he gleefully presented the deceiving \"Stage Pose\" downgrade (created by Arlene Phillips in 1997).\nProductions, mainly musicals, included:\nMusic.\nKenwright had his own record label (Bill Kenwright Records), which released a number of albums: the London Palladium cast recording of \"Scrooge\" (starring Tommy Steele) and the 2006 Lyric Theatre Recording of \"Cabaret\" were joined in February 2008 by the debut album of Kenwright's new boy group Dream On. BK Records also released Joe McElderry's 4th album Saturday Night at the Movies, and a soundtrack of Joe singing Joseph and His Technicolour Dreamcoat.\nDream On, comprising five runners up from the BBC's \"Any Dream Will Do\" \u2013 Craig Chalmers, Lewis Bradley, Chris Crosby, Chris Barton and Antony Hansen was formed in January 2008.\nKenwright began his music career in a band known as the Chevrolets. Perhaps less known is Kenwright's recording career both solo and with a group\nBill Kenwright and the Runaways:\nand solo, as Bill Kenwright:\nKenwright tried his hand at record production in 1969, producing two singles for Manchester band Money, who also worked as his backing band for several cabaret gigs in Oldham and at Allinson's, Liverpool. The first record, \"Come Laughing Home\", was the title music for Kenwright's first foray into theatrical production, with Reginald Marsh (also a star of \"Coronation Street\") as co-producer. The show starred Anne Reid, who at the time was playing Valerie Barlow in \"Coronation Street\". It was the first time a \"Coronation Street\" star had worked in live theatre whilst still acting in the series. The show opened at Blackpool's Grand Theatre. The single was also released in Argentina.\nActor.\nAs a young man he became an actor. His early successes included a role in \"Coronation Street\" as Gordon Clegg, who was introduced in April 1968. Kenwright left the show after a year to pursue his producing career in March 1969, although he did return to the show on occasion throughout the 1970s for guest appearances. He continued to appear in Coronation Street occasionally until 2012. He had brief stints in other shows, such as \"The Villains\" and \"The Liver Birds\", and appeared in the films \"Carry On Matron\" (1972), as a reporter, and \"England, My England\" (1995). From 1997 he managed the Theatre Royal in Windsor.\nEverton Football Club.\nKenwright was the chairman of Everton Football Club. He succeeded Littlewoods director Philip Carter in the role. Kenwright remained on the Everton board since 23 October 1989 and up until his death in 2023. He became the second largest shareholder in 1999, when Peter Johnson sold his shareholding after the Football Association told him to sell his interests in either Tranmere Rovers or Everton. He became the largest stakeholder in the club in 2004.\nScottish international forward Andy Gray reported in his autobiography that the Everton board were ready to offer Gray the job as manager in August 1997, but Kenwright, then director, had wanted to appoint Howard Kendall as manager for a third time. Gray would decide not to become Everton manager and Kendall was appointed.\n1994 buyout proposal.\nKenwright became involved in a consortium to buy Everton in 1994, as his consortium rivalled Birkenhead-based Peter Johnson. Kenwright's consortium had assurances from the Everton owner's family head Lady Grantchester that the Moores family would sell their stake in the club. Kenwright's proposal was dismissed as the \"Manchester Consortium\" in the \"Liverpool Echo\", as the rivalry between Liverpool and Manchester was enough to deter supporters' support. Kenwright's consortium included Manchester-based Tom Cannon, Tony Tighe (who later went on to create the Everton Collection) and Mike Dyble, whilst building magnate Arthur Abercromby was Cheshire-based. Abercromby offered a \u00a32\u00a0million interest-free loan to the club for the purchase of players.\nKenwright, who had been a director at Everton for ten years, had an opportunity to sway the board members to accept his bid but chose not to because he did not want a public relations battle with the more affluent Johnson. Tighe, in an interview with a journalist David Conn, said: \"Bill didn't want a public row, that's why he didn't go to press much. He wanted the board to be unanimous. As he saw it, he didn't want Everton's name to be dragged through controversy.\" Peter Johnson's bid was accepted by the Everton board. Johnson installed Kenwright (the half Belgian half English theatre impresario) as vice-chairman and Sir Philip Carter was re-instated as chairman.\n1999 buyout proposal and True Blue Holdings.\nKenwright's consortium bought 68% of Everton F.C. from Peter Johnson for \u00a320\u00a0million in 1999. A holding company called True Blue (Holdings) Ltd was formed in January 2000. The stakeholders in True Blue Holdings included Paul Gregg, Jimmy Mulville, Jon Woods and Willy Russell before it was dissolved in 2004. Mihir Bose reported that Anita Gregg lent up to \u00a37\u00a0million to Kenwright. Upon completion of the deal, Kenwright said: \"Acquiring Peter Johnson's shares is only the first step to restoring a great club to where it belongs \u2013 to where it should be. If you are going to run a successful football club you need two qualities: you need to be realistic and you need a plan. I'm realistic and I have a plan.\"\nIn 2003, he attempted to move Everton to the Kings Dock on the riverside but after a public feud with director Paul Gregg over the proposal's finances and the sale of Wayne Rooney, the move fell through. Gregg had wanted to keep Rooney at the club and Kenwright reluctantly felt it was best he be sold to ease the club's financial burden. Paul and Anita Gregg later sold their shares to Florida-based businessman Robert Earl. Kenwright's close friend Philip Green is believed to have helped him secure the club after being approached for help.\nChairmanship.\nOn 1 June 2004, Kenwright became chairman of Everton Football Club. On the same day, Trevor Birch was appointed chief executive officer to replace the outgoing Michael Dunford. Kenwright said that Birch would be his \"sounding board\" and that the new CEO should \"dictate the policy of the football club\". Kenwright stated that Birch had not been brought in to sell the club, but that a new investor can have his shares as long as they \"have money to run the club\". Birch resigned six weeks later. He resigned after a meeting with True Blue Holding (Kenwright, Woods, Gregg and Abercromby) where the board opted not to sell the club. Gregg claimed there was a refusal to relinquish control by other directors and that it was preventing progress at the club.\nFortress Sports Fund.\nIn August 2004, it was reported that a Brunei-based fund Fortess Sports Fund (FSF) were interested in buying a stake in Everton. Following the public fall-out with director Paul Gregg, it was anticipated that Gregg's shares in addition to others would be sold to the fund. Kenwright and Everton director Jon Woods were in favour of accepting the investment whilst Paul Gregg was sceptical and refused to endorse it. Gregg believed that the fund under-valued his investment, it was reported that the fund's bid was \u00a312.8\u00a0million for 29.9% of the club.\nIn February 2005, Keith Wyness stated that the club had begun to look for other potential investors. In April 2005, Samuelson stated that \"the Fund is completed and registered\" but Everton director Paul Gregg publicly questioned the FSF: \"As a director I have not received any proof of funds \u2013 or that they even exist.\" The \"Liverpool Echo\" described the FSF situation as a \"farce\". Paul Gregg stated that he had been \"led down the garden path and that the whole exercise has embarrassed the club.\" Samuelson re-iterated that funds were ready; \"The fund is approved and ready to go. I have not received the actual certificate of incorporation of the fund but that is a technicality.\" He stated that an EGM was necessary to confirm the FSF fund. \"As far as I'm concerned it's a fait accompli \u2013 subject to the approval of an EGM of shareholders.\" An EGM was never called and the question of investment into Everton from the FSF fell away from the public eye.\nIn November 2005, at the following AGM. Kenwright said that Samuelson \"was someone who I believed could have come up with the money, he had his credentials and thought he could come up with a deal that was good for the club\u00a0... but he didn't, like many many other people, come up with the goods.\" He added: \"I am spending 24 hours a day trying to raise finance for this club. I had a meeting today, three yesterday, all involving money that would dilute my shareholding \u2013 but I'm not interested in that.\"\n2004 Extraordinary General Meeting.\nBy September 2004, concerns amongst fans had grown about the future of the club. An Extraordinary General Meeting was called by shareholders; \"The shareholders of the Company express their deep concern at the current state of affairs in the Company\". It called for the board of directors to resign if they did not address previous motions to the satisfaction of shareholders Kenwright is considered approachable by fans and prior to the EGM he contacted a fan website before the press regarding the meeting.\n2008 Extraordinary General Meeting.\nIn 2007, Kenwright said in an interview on ITV that Goodison Park would soon fail to obtain a ground safety certificate and announced that he would like to move the club to Kirkby as part of a proposal known as Destination Kirkby which included a Tesco supermarket and a retail park. The pursuit of this project led to minor shareholders of the club calling for an Extraordinary General Meeting in 2008. After it was confirmed that the EGM would go ahead, Keith Wyness resigned and was replaced by Robert Elstone who was promoted to the position from within.\nAt this meeting, Kenwright revealed that he took business advice from retail industry leaders Sir Philip Green and Sir Terry Leahy. The minority shareholders determined that the club should not pursue the project due to a growing number of concerns. However, Kenwright and the other majority shareholders, using one share one vote forced the resolution to be defeated and the project to proceed. The project was called in by the Secretary for State and a public inquiry determined that the project should not proceed after hearing evidence from groups who opposed the scheme such as Keep Everton In Our City (KEIOC).\nIn April 2008, he agreed to produce \"Dixie: The People's Legend\", a documentary on Everton legend Dixie Dean produced by Liverpool-based company Tabacula.\nPersonal life.\nKenwright was married to actress Anouska Hempel from 1978 to 1980 and had a daughter and two grandchildren from his relationship with the actress Virginia Stride. Until Kenwright\u2019s death in 2023, he was in a long-term relationship with the actress Jenny Seagrove, with the couple residing in London. The West End theatre publicist Adam Kenwright is his nephew who runs advertising and marketing company aka.\nDeath.\nEverton provided a short update on Kenwright's health on 12 October 2023 saying in a statement: \"Following a diagnosis at the beginning of August, Mr Kenwright underwent a major medical procedure six weeks ago to remove a cancerous tumour from his liver. The procedure was completely successful, but complications during surgery necessitated a prolonged period in an intensive care unit.\" Everton further went on to say: \"his recovery which is expected to be lengthy, but complete.\" Kenwright died of liver cancer on 23 October 2023, at the age of 78.\nOn 26 October 2023, theatres across the UK dimmed their lights for two minutes to mark Kenwright's death.\nHonours.\nKenwright received an Honorary Fellowship from Liverpool's John Moores University and was an Honorary Professor of University of West London in London.\nKenwright was awarded the CBE for his services to film and theatre in the 2001 New Year Honours.\nIn November 2008 he was awarded an Honorary degree of Doctor of Letters (D.Litt.) from Nottingham Trent University in recognition of his outstanding contribution and commitment to British theatre.\nIn March 2025, a bust of Kenwright was unveiled at the Liverpool Empire Theatre, as the venue celebrated its 100th anniversary. \nOn 3 January 2014, Kenwright appeared on the BBC show \"Pointless Celebrities\". He and his partner Jenny Seagrove reached the final and won the Pointless trophy, but gave three incorrect answers and missed out on the \u00a32,500 jackpot."}
{"id": "732398", "revid": "754619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732398", "title": "Lady Hayman", "text": ""}
{"id": "732400", "revid": "78194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732400", "title": "Covenant (musical group)", "text": ""}
{"id": "732401", "revid": "864270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732401", "title": "Lady Wilcox", "text": ""}
{"id": "732403", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732403", "title": "Perforin-1", "text": "Perforin-1 (PRF) is a pore-forming protein encoded in humans by the \"PRF1\" gene. It is stored in the secretory granules of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and natural killer (NK) cells, collectively known as cytotoxic lymphocytes (CLs). Upon activation, these cells release perforin to form pores in the membranes of target cells, enabling the entry of granzymes that trigger apoptosis. Perforin is therefore a central effector molecule of the immune system, essential for the elimination of virus-infected and transformed cells. Mutations in \"PRF1\" that impair perforin expression or function are associated with familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL) and related immune dysregulation syndromes, a spectrum of conditions sometimes collectively referred to as perforinopathies.\nDiscovery.\nPerforin was initially discovered in 1983 and subsequently cloned from an expression library in 1988 using anti-complement C9 antibody cross-reactivity. A sequence comparison showed a notable resemblance between the two proteins in a specific central region, termed the 'membrane attack complex/perforin' (MACPF) domain.\nStructure.\nPerforin is a pore-forming cytolytic protein composed of approximately 555 amino acids and has a molecular weight of 60\u201370 kDa. The protein contains several domains: the conserved N-terminal membrane attack complex/perforin (MACPF) domain which is central to its pore-forming function, a C-terminal membrane-docking C2 domain responsible for calcium-dependent interaction with target membranes, and an epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domain that provides flexibility and links the MACPF and C2 domains. The structure of perforin is further stabilized by nine disulfide bonds, and its N-terminal domain binds calcium ions, a key feature required for activation and subsequent insertion into lipid membranes. Oligomerization of approximately 20 perforin monomers forms large, cylindrical pores in target cell membranes; these pores are hydrophobic and disrupt ionic homeostasis, leading to cell death.\nThe lytic membrane-inserting region of perforin is the MACPF domain, which mediates pore formation. This domain shares homology with cholesterol-dependent cytolysins of Gram-positive bacteria. Perforin also shows structural similarity to complement component 9 (C9), another pore-forming protein that creates transmembrane tubules.\nPurifying perforin has historically been difficult due to its loss of activity and stability in solution; only recently has a recombinant form been successfully produced.\nFunction.\nPerforin is a pore-forming cytolytic protein stored in the granules of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and natural killer (NK) cells. Upon degranulation, perforin is escorted to the target cell membrane by calreticulin, a chaperone protein that prevents its premature degradation. Perforin binds to the target cell's plasma membrane through interactions with membrane phospholipids, while calcium ions enhance this binding by stabilizing interactions with phosphatidylcholine In a Ca2+-dependent process, perforin oligomerises to form pores that permit the entry of granzymes, a family of pro-apoptotic proteases. \nInitially, perforin was thought to act only at the plasma membrane. However, subsequent findings revealed that granzyme B can be endocytosed independently of perforin. Washed cells that had internalized granzyme B underwent apoptosis when perforin was later added, even though perforin had not been present during endocytosis. These results led to the proposal that perforin's main function occurs at the endosomal rather than the plasma membrane, by disrupting endosomal integrity to release granzymes into the cytosol. Later studies confirmed that perforin pores in the endosomal membrane enable granzyme B to escape into the cytosol, thereby triggering apoptosis.\nThrough these mechanisms, perforin acts as a central effector molecule in CTL- and NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity.\nClinical significance.\nFamilial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.\nMutations in \"PRF1\" that reduce or abolish perforin expression or pore-forming activity cause the autosomal-recessive disorder familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL) type 2 (FHL2). The loss of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) and natural killer (NK) cell function prevents effective granule-mediated cytotoxicity, leading to uncontrolled antigen presentation, T-cell hyperactivation, interferon-\u03b3\u2013driven macrophage activation, and severe hyperinflammation. \"PRF1\" mutations account for roughly 20\u201350% of familial cases, with disease severity depending on mutation type: hypomorphic alleles with residual activity may present later in childhood or adulthood, whereas null mutations typically manifest in infancy.\nPerforinopathy.\nThe concept of \"perforinopathy\" encompasses a spectrum of disease presentations linked to impaired perforin function.\nAcute.\nComplete loss of perforin activity causes a severe, often fatal, autosomal recessive immunoregulatory disorder in infants, typically presenting before 12 months of age as FHL. Effective treatment requires allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Pathogenesis results from the inability of CTLs and NK cells to kill target cells, leading to the clinical syndrome defined in HLH-2004. Diagnosis is confirmed by impaired NK cell cytotoxicity and by mutations in \"PRF1\" or other FHL-associated genes such as \"UNC13D\", \"STX11\", and \"STXBP2\".\nSub-acute.\nSub-acute perforinopathies result from partial loss of CTL and NK cell function, usually due to bi-allelic hypomorphic mutations. Clinical manifestations are more variable and often milder than in acute disease, with intermittent courses, later onset, and responsiveness to immunosuppressive or immune-ablative therapy. These features make diagnosis more challenging.\nChronic.\nChronic perforinopathies arise from monoallelic mutations in genes linked to FHL. Instead of classic FHL, these patients may present with later-onset immune dysregulation, including macrophage activation syndrome in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis or an increased incidence of blood cancers. Symptoms usually appear after age 5. Associations between \"PRF1\" variants and outcomes following bone marrow transplantation have been reported, but remain controversial.\nCancer.\nPerforin is a central effector in immune surveillance against cancer, enabling CTLs and NK cells to lyse transformed cells (a normal cell altered to grow uncontrollably with cancer-like traits). By forming membrane pores, perforin permits entry of granzymes that induce apoptosis. In both humans and mice, perforin deficiency or dysfunction markedly increases susceptibility to cancers, particularly lymphomas and other hematological malignancies. Some tumors evade perforin-mediated cytotoxicity by altering cell surface molecules, thereby resisting immune clearance and promoting cancer progression.\nInteractions.\nPerforin has been shown to interact with calreticulin."}
{"id": "732405", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732405", "title": "Lord Taverne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732406", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732406", "title": "Baron Taverne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732407", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732407", "title": "Baron Cooke of Thorndon", "text": ""}
{"id": "732408", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732408", "title": "Neuroactive", "text": "Neuroactive is a Synthpop, Futurepop, EBM music group from Finland founded by Jarkko Tuohimaa, Ville Brusi, and Vesa Rainne.\nHistory.\nNeuroactive was formed in 1991 by Jarkko Tuohimaa (after he left the band Advanced Art), Ville Brusi, and Vesa Rainne. After signing with Cyberware Productions, their first album, \"Morphology\", was released in 1994 and followed by \"Phonic Trace\" in 1997. Shortly thereafter, Brusi and Rainne left the group, and Kimmo Karjalainen came on board to sing for the next two albums, \"Fiber Optic Rhythm\" and \"Transients\". \"Fiber Optic Rhythm\" also featured Geoff Pickney of The Nine on guest vocals.\n\"Fiber Optic Rhythm\" was a huge breakthrough for Neuroactive, and they gained new fans worldwide. The album's popularity also attracted the attention of U.S. Synthpop record label A Different Drum who signed them in 1998. Neuroactive continued to release material under that label until its closing in 2014, including \"Transients\" in 2001, \"N-Gin\" in 2005, \"Antidote\" in 2009, and \"Electra\" in 2014.\nAfter \"Transients\", life and family obligations took energy away from the band leading vocalist Kimmo Karjalainen to depart and eventually begin his own project, Huminoida. The albums \"N-Gin\" and \"Antidote\" both included several guest singers, including Christopher Anton (Information Society), Kirk Taylor (The Dignity of Labour), Marcus Fellechner (Rename), and Albert Martinez (Neuropa) among others. \"Electra\" features all female vocals by Sonja Myers. \nAfter a six year hiatus, Neuroactive returned with a new single, \"Night Flights\", on the Belgian label Alfa Matrix. Tuohimaa then brought back former members Karjalainen and Rainne to release a full-length album \"Minor Side-Effects\" and subsequent singles for \"Dances\" and \"In Rust We Trust\". \"Minor Side Effects\" also features two songs with guest vocals by John Peverieri of Halo Effect.\nNeuroactive has remixed numerous bands over their career including: A\u00efboforcen, Aghast View, Iris, B! Machine, Neuropa, The Nine, T.O.Y., and Assemblage 23.\nExternal links.\n&lt;br&gt;\nFormer website (now defunct)"}
{"id": "732410", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732410", "title": "Lady Lloyd of Highbury", "text": ""}
{"id": "732411", "revid": "22041646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732411", "title": "Mike Skinner", "text": ""}
{"id": "732412", "revid": "57939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732412", "title": "53 Kalypso", "text": "53 Kalypso is a large and very dark main belt asteroid that was discovered by German astronomer Robert Luther on April 4, 1858, at D\u00fcsseldorf. It is named after Calypso, a sea nymph in Greek mythology, a name it shares with Calypso, a moon of Saturn.\nThe orbit of 53 Kalypso places it in a mean motion resonance with the planets Jupiter and Saturn. The computed Lyapunov time for this asteroid is 19,000 years, indicating that it occupies a chaotic orbit that will change randomly over time because of gravitational perturbations of the planets.\nPhotometric observations of this asteroid during 2005\u201306 gave a light curve with a period of 18.075 \u00b1 0.005 hours and a brightness variation of 0.14 in magnitude. In 2009, a photometric study from a different viewing angle was performed at the Organ Mesa Observatory in Las Cruces, New Mexico, yielding a rotation period of 9.036 \u00b1 0.001 with a brightness variation of 0.14 \u00b1 0.02 magnitude. This is exactly half of the 2005\u201306 result. The author of the earlier study used additional data observation that favored the 9.036 hour period. The discrepancy was deemed a consequence of viewing the asteroid from different longitudes.\nKalypso has been studied by radar."}
{"id": "732413", "revid": "34736452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732413", "title": "Alexander Scrymgeour, 12th Earl of Dundee", "text": "Alexander Henry Scrymgeour, 12th Earl of Dundee, (born 5 June 1949), is a Scottish peer, Conservative politician and Chief of the Clan Scrymgeour.\nBorn on 5 June 1949, Dundee is the son of Henry Scrymgeour-Wedderburn, 11th Earl of Dundee, and Patricia Montagu Douglas Scott. He was educated at Ludgrove School and Eton College before attending the University of St Andrews. He was a Page of Honour to Queen Elizabeth II.\nLord Scrymgeour's first active experience as a Conservative politician was as the party's candidate in the Hamilton by-election in 1978. He has sat in the House of Lords since his father's death in 1983, and served as a Lord-in-waiting (Conservative Party whip in the House of Lords) from 1986 to 1989. He served as Government Spokesperson for Education (1986\u20131988), Government Spokesperson for Scottish Affairs (1986\u20131989), Government Spokesperson for Home Affairs and for Energy from (1987\u20131989). He was made an elected hereditary peer (as Earl of Dundee) in 1999.\nHe has served as the UK delegate to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe from 1992 to 1997. He was also a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Western European parliament from 1992 to 1999. The Earl is honorary consul for Croatia in Edinburgh, and is decorated with the Order of Prince Branimir. The Dundee Trust works on the Dalmatian coast in Croatia on behalf of DFID to distribute humanitarian aid to some of the poorest people in the Balkans.\nA farmer of thirty years' experience, Lord Dundee's Farming Company manages some 2000 acres over the counties of Fife and Angus. Dundee has sat in the House since 1983 where he has exercised his privileges on a number of agriculture and environmental standing committees. Most recently his interests have turned to health questions.\nLord Dundee is also the Hereditary Royal Standard Bearer of Scotland, Constable of Dundee, and Chief of the Name and Arms of Scrymgeour. He was one of the peers carrying the Royal Standards at the 2023 Coronation. \nHe is a member of the New Club, Edinburgh and Whites, in London.\nFamily.\nLord Dundee married Siobhan Mary (died 11 March 2019), daughter of David Llewellyn of 41 Cleveland Square, London, and Great Somerford, Wiltshire, on 19 July 1979. They have four children:"}
{"id": "732414", "revid": "59002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732414", "title": "Give Me the Brain", "text": "Give Me the Brain is a discard-style card game designed by James Ernest and released in 1996 by Cheapass Games. In the game, players assume the role of zombies attempting to complete their tasks for the day at Friedey's, \"the fast food restaurant of the damned\", yet they only have one brain to share between them.\nThe game inspired several sequels, all set at Friedey's.\nThe original edition was the recipient of an Origins Award for \"Best Traditional Card Game of 1997\". A Czech-language version of the original game was released in 1997 with the name \"Dej sem mozek\". An expanded Special Edition was released in 2002, and was nominated in the same category for the 2003 Origins Awards.\nJust as Steve Jackson Games re-released Lord of the Fries in 2008, it was revealed at PAX 2010 that a third edition of Give Me the Brain would be released in the same manner.\nGame play.\nEach player receives a hand of cards at the start of the game; the objective of \"Give Me the Brain\" is to play all cards in your hand, which corresponds to your zombie completing all the work assigned for the day. Each card is labeled with zero, one, or two hand icons; when it's your turn, you can play any number of cards, provided that together they show a total of no more than two hands.\nEvery card has some special effect on the game, and this must be dealt with whenever a card is played.\nSome cards, indicated by a brain icon, require your zombie to have the brain in order to play. The brain is represented by a token that is held by one player at a time. The brain can be obtained by a number of methods: most commonly, many of the special effects written on cards will change which player has the brain. At the start of the game, a \"Brain Auction\" occurs to decide which player will have the brain to start with: in a Brain Auction, players must play Brain Bid cards from their hands to bid on the brain, and the highest bidder receives it. A player who holds no Brain Bid cards is not eligible to receive the brain, but holding Brain Bid cards can be a bad thing as well, as described below.\nEvery card which carries the brain icon also has a number printed just below it. After playing a card which features the brain, the player must roll a 6-sided die; if the result is less than the number shown on the card, the zombie has still completed the task but has managed to drop the brain in the process, triggering another Brain Auction. Since Brain Bid cards are cards in your hand, it is necessary to play all the ones you have in order to win: but since they can only be played during Brain Auctions, it may be necessary for a player to deliberately trigger Brain Auctions\u00a0\u2013 or even to bid against themselves\u00a0\u2013 in order to win."}
{"id": "732415", "revid": "12978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732415", "title": "Raymundus Lullus", "text": ""}
{"id": "732416", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732416", "title": "Lady Symons of Vernham Dean", "text": ""}
{"id": "732419", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732419", "title": "Baroness Anelay of St. Johns", "text": ""}
{"id": "732420", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732420", "title": "Baroness Anelay of Saint Johns", "text": ""}
{"id": "732421", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732421", "title": "Lady Anelay of Saint Johns", "text": ""}
{"id": "732422", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732422", "title": "Lady Anelay of St Johns", "text": ""}
{"id": "732423", "revid": "16543708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732423", "title": "Black program", "text": ""}
{"id": "732424", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732424", "title": "Lady Anelay of St. Johns", "text": ""}
{"id": "732426", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732426", "title": "Lady Byford", "text": ""}
{"id": "732428", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732428", "title": "Lord Rogers of Riverside", "text": ""}
{"id": "732429", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732429", "title": "Baron Rogers of Riverside", "text": ""}
{"id": "732430", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732430", "title": "Os-tan", "text": ""}
{"id": "732432", "revid": "2615838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732432", "title": "Virchow's node", "text": ""}
{"id": "732433", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732433", "title": "Imperial Tobacco Group", "text": ""}
{"id": "732434", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732434", "title": "Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor", "text": ""}
{"id": "732438", "revid": "5034212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732438", "title": "Etanercept", "text": "Etanercept, sold under the brand name Enbrel among others, is a biologic medical product that is used to treat autoimmune diseases by interfering with tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a soluble inflammatory cytokine, by acting as a TNF inhibitor. It has US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval to treat rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis and psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis. TNF is the \"master regulator\" of the inflammatory (immune) response in many organ systems. Autoimmune diseases are caused by an overactive immune response. Etanercept has the potential to treat these diseases by inhibiting TNF.\nEtanercept is a fusion protein produced by recombinant DNA. It fuses the TNF receptor to the constant end of the IgG1 antibody. First, the developers isolated the DNA sequence that codes the human gene for soluble TNF receptor 2, which is a receptor that binds to tumor necrosis factor. Second, they isolated the DNA sequence that codes the human gene for the Fc end of immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1). Third, they linked the DNA for TNF receptor 2 to the DNA for IgG1 Fc. Finally, they expressed the linked DNA to produce a protein that links the protein for TNF receptor 2 to the protein for IgG1 Fc.\nThe prototypic fusion protein was first synthesized and shown to be highly active and unusually stable as a modality for blockade of TNF \"in vivo\" in the early 1990s by Bruce A. Beutler, an academic researcher then at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, and his colleagues.\nThese investigators also patented the protein, selling all rights to its use to Immunex, a Seattle biotechnology company that was acquired by Amgen in 2002.\nIt is a large molecule, with a molecular weight of 150 kDa, that binds to TNF\u03b1 and decreases its role in disorders involving excess inflammation in humans and other animals, including autoimmune diseases such as ankylosing spondylitis, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and, potentially, in a variety of other disorders mediated by excess TNF\u03b1. Etanercept is a therapeutic alternative on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.\nMedical uses.\nIn the United States, etanercept is indicated for:\nIn the European Union, etanercept is indicated to treat:\nUnrecognized uses.\nAn American physician, Edward Tobinick, has attempted to use etanercept to treat chronic neurological dysfunction after stroke and brain injury and issued U.S. and foreign patents. Writing for Science-Based Medicine, Steven Novella said that it was \"unethical for physicians to practice outside of their area of competence and expertise\". Tobinick sued Novella in response, and lost. Of this treatment, the American Academy of Neurology advise \"there is insufficient evidence to determine its effectiveness and that the treatment may be associated with adverse outcomes and high cost\".\nAdverse effects.\nOn 2 May 2008, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) placed a black box warning on etanercept due to a number of serious infections associated with the drug. Serious infections and sepsis, including fatalities, have been reported with the use of etanercept including reactivation of latent tuberculosis and hepatitis B infections.\nInjection site reactions such as redness and pain are common, occurring in approximately 11.4% of cases.\nMechanism of action.\nEtanercept reduces the effect of naturally present TNF, and hence is a TNF inhibitor, functioning as a decoy receptor that binds to TNF.\nTumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a cytokine produced by lymphocytes and macrophages, two types of white blood cells. It mediates the immune response by attracting additional white blood cells to sites of inflammation and through additional molecular mechanisms that initiate and amplify inflammation. Inhibition of its action by etanercept reduces the inflammatory response, which is especially useful for treating autoimmune diseases.\nThere are two types of TNF receptors: those found embedded in white blood cells that respond to TNF by releasing other cytokines, and \"soluble\" TNF receptors that are used to deactivate TNF and blunt the immune response. In addition, TNF receptors are found on the surface of virtually all nucleated cells (red blood cells, which are not nucleated, do not contain TNF receptors on their surface). Etanercept mimics the inhibitory effects of naturally occurring soluble TNF receptors, the difference being that etanercept, because it is a fusion protein rather than a simple TNF receptor, has a greatly extended half-life in the bloodstream, and therefore a more profound and long-lasting biologic effect than a naturally occurring soluble TNF receptor.\nStructure.\nEtanercept is made from the combination of two naturally occurring soluble human 75-kilodalton TNF receptors linked to an Fc portion of an IgG1. The effect is an artificially engineered dimeric fusion protein. Etanercept is a complex molecule containing 6 N-glycans, up to 14 O-glycans and 29 disulfide bridge structures.\nHistory.\nThe first etanercept-related patent was filed by Immunex in September 1989. The fusion protein was developed by Bruce A. Beutler, an academic researcher then at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, and colleagues, who patented it and licensed the rights in 1995 to Immunex. Another patent on such fusion protein technology from Brian Seed at Massachusetts General Hospital was licensed to Immmunex in 1997.\nEtanercept was approved for use in the United States in November 1998.\nEtanercept was approved for use in the European Union in February 2000.\nSociety and culture.\nEconomics.\nThe US retail price of etanercept has risen over time. In 2008, the cost of etanercept was $1,500 per month or $18,000 per year. By 2011, the cost had exceeded $20,000 per year. In 2013, a survey by the International Federation of Health Plans (IFHP) found that the average US cost for etanercept was $2,225 per month, or $26,700 per year. The IFHP report also found wide variation in prices charged to various US health plans, between $1,946 per month at the 25th percentile and $4,006 per month at the 95th percentile.\nEtanercept is more expensive in the US than in other countries. As of 2013, average monthly costs in surveyed nations ranged from $1,017 in Switzerland to $1,646 in Canada, compared to an average monthly cost of $2,225 per month in the US.\nAmgen sells etanercept within the US and Canada, while Pfizer, Inc. sells the drug outside of the US and Canada. Sales within the US and Canada were $3.5 billion in 2010. Sales of etanercept outside the US and Canada were $3.3 billion in 2010.\nIn late March 2025, Amgen lost a lawsuit against Colorado over a prescription drug affordability board.\nPatents.\nThe patent on etanercept was set to expire in October 2012, but, in the United States, a second patent, granting exclusivity for another 16 years, has been granted.\nBefore the extension it seemed unlikely that a generic would have been available. As a biologic, etanercept is subject to different laws from those applicable to chemical formulations. Many countries do not permit the manufacture of generic biologics. However, the European Union and the United States (Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009) do have in place a system to approve generic biologics (biosimilars) which \"requires mandatory clinical testing and periodic review\".\nIn April 2013, the Indian pharma major Cipla made an announcement about launching the first biosimilar of Etanercept in India under the brand name Etacept for the treatment of rheumatic disorders.\nBiosimilars.\nIn January 2016, Benepali was approved for use in the European Union.\nIn February 2017, Lifmior was approved for use in the European Union. It was withdrawn from the market in February 2020.\nIn June 2017, Erelzi was approved for use in the European Union.\nIn March 2019, YLB113 (Etanercept biosimilar by YL Biologics) was approved in Japan.\nIn April 2019, Eticovo received FDA approval.\nIn May 2020, Nepexto was approved for use in the European Union.\nRymti and Etera were approved for medical use in Australia in October 2020."}
{"id": "732439", "revid": "2842084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732439", "title": "H. V. Morton", "text": "Henry Canova Vollam Morton (known as H. V. Morton), (26 July 1892 \u2013 18 June 1979) was a journalist and pioneering travel writer from Lancashire, England. He was best known for his many books on London, Great Britain and the Holy Land. He first achieved fame in 1923 when, while working for the \"Daily Express\", he covered the opening of the tomb of Tutankhamun by Howard Carter.\nLife.\nEarly life.\nMorton was born at Ashton-under-Lyne, Lancashire, on 26 July 1892, the son of Joseph Morton, editor of the \"Birmingham Mail\", and Margaret Maclean Ewart. He was educated at King Edward's School in Birmingham but left at the age of 16 to pursue a career in journalism. He served in the Warwickshire Yeomanry during World War I, but saw no combat action. He married Dorothy Vaughton (born 1887) on 14 September 1915. They had three children, Michael, Barbara and John. They later divorced, and on 4 January 1934, he married Violet Mary Muskett (n\u00e9e Greig, born 1900, known as Mary). They had a son, Timothy.\nLater life.\nIn the late 1940s Morton, and Violet, immigrated to the Union of South Africa, settling near Cape Town in Somerset West. He later became a South African citizen, and remained a permanent resident until his death in 1979. Morton and his son were survived by Mary.\nJournalism.\nMorton's journalism career began in 1910 at the \"Birmingham Gazette and Express\", where his father was an editor. Two years later, he was promoted to an assistant editor; and relocated to London for most of his British career. His first position in London was as a sub-editor for the \"Daily Mail\".\nAfter his military service during First World War, he returned to London, working at the \"Evening Standard\" in 1919\u201321, and from 1921 on the \"Daily Express\". His columns on London life in the latter were popular among readers.\nMorton also gave readings of his work on BBC Radio.\nTomb of Tutankhamun.\nIn 1923 the \"Daily Express\" sent Morton to Egypt to cover the excavation of Tutankhamun's tomb. Morton was able to provide an eye witness account of the opening of the inner burial chamber containing the sarcophagus of Tutankhamun, circumventing \"The Times\" exclusive rights to the story. A day after the opening, the discovery was reported in the \"Daily Express\":\nHis widely-read articles on the excavation helped establish Morton's reputation as a journalist and were a boon to the popularity of his travel writing and journalism. Between 1931 and 1942, he was \"special writer\" at the \"Daily Herald\". In 1941, he was a reporter at the Atlantic Charter between Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt, which later became the subject of his book \"Atlantic Meeting\", published 1943.\nTravel writing.\nMorton's first book, \"The Heart of London\", appeared in 1925, which developed his popular \"Daily Express\" columns. This was followed by two further collections of his writings on London, in \"The Spell of London\" (1926), and \"Nights of London\" (1926). In 1926 he wrote a series of articles for the \"Daily Express\" based on his travels around England in his bull-nosed Morris car. The series was entitled \"In Search of England\" and the vignettes were later adapted into the book of the same name. This became a bestseller and the first of his many \"In Search of...\" books.\nMorton's first foreign travel book, \"In the Steps of the Master\" (1934), was well received and sold over half a million copies. The Master of the title was Jesus, and the book was an account of Morton's travels in the Holy Land. This was soon followed by \"In the Steps of St. Paul\" (1936), and describes Turkey 13 years after the Turkish War of Independence and its founding as a modern state. This was followed by \"Through Lands of the Bible\" (1938) in which he visits Egypt, Palestine, Syria and Iraq. Extracts from all three books were combined and published as \"Middle East\" during World War II for British servicemen stationed in the Middle East.\nIn addition to \"Atlantic Meeting\" (1941), Morton wrote two books describing England and the War, including collection of essays on London in \" The Ghosts of London\" (1939), \"I Saw Two Englands\" (1942), and \"I, James Blunt\" describing England after the Nazi victory, being fictional propaganda for the British Government. A full-length history of London, (\"In Search of London\") (1951), includes a post-war examination of bombing damage inflicted on London during The Blitz. After the war, South Africa was the subject of \"In Search of South Africa\" (1948), and shortly afterwards he and his wife immigrated there. During the mid-1950s and 60s he wrote books on Spain and Italy. \"A Traveller in Italy\" is situated in Northern Italy, while \"A Traveller in Southern Italy\" explores the poorer provinces of the south.\nHonours.\nMorton became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature (FRSL). Greece made him a Commander of the Order of the Phoenix in 1937 and he was awarded the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 1965. A commemorative blue plaque was erected in Ashton-under-Lyne (Morton's birthplace) in June 2004.\nControversy.\nA controversial biography by Michael Bartholomew, based on Morton's private and public writings, titled \"In Search of H. V. Morton\", was published by Methuen in 2004. According to Bartholomew, based on Morton's private memoirs and diaries, Morton was privately a Nazi sympathizer. In a diary entry from February 1941, he confessed: \"I must say Nazi-ism has some fine qualities\" and, \"I am appalled to discover how many of Hitler's theories appeal to me\". In another entry, he described the United States as \"that craven nation of Jews and foreigners\".\nPublications.\nMorton was a prolific writer, with a body of work consisting of several hundred newspaper, magazine articles and features, in addition to his published books."}
{"id": "732440", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732440", "title": "Amphotericin", "text": ""}
{"id": "732441", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732441", "title": "Granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor", "text": ""}
{"id": "732442", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732442", "title": "Enbrel", "text": ""}
{"id": "732443", "revid": "864270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732443", "title": "Lady Emerton", "text": ""}
{"id": "732444", "revid": "7611264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732444", "title": "Nystatin", "text": "Nystatin, sold under the brand name Mycostatin among others, is an antifungal medication. It is used to treat \"Candida\" infections of the skin including diaper rash, thrush, esophageal candidiasis, and vaginal yeast infections. It may also be used to prevent candidiasis in those who are at high risk. Nystatin may be used by mouth, in the vagina, or applied to the skin.\nCommon side effects when applied to the skin include burning, itching, and a rash. Common side effects when taken by mouth include vomiting and diarrhea. During pregnancy use in the vagina is safe while other formulations have not been studied in this group. It works by disrupting the cell membrane of the fungal cells.\nNystatin was discovered in 1950 by Rachel Fuller Brown and Elizabeth Lee Hazen. It was the first polyene macrolide antifungal. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication. It is made from the bacterium \"Streptomyces noursei\". In 2023, it was the 233rd most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 1million prescriptions.\nMedical uses.\nSkin, vaginal, mouth, and esophageal \"Candida\" infections usually respond well to treatment with nystatin. Infections of nails or hyperkeratinized skin do not respond well.\nWhen given parenterally (that is, other routes besides oral/topical/vaginal), its activity is reduced due to presence of plasma.\nOral nystatin is often used as a preventive treatment in people who are at risk for fungal infections, such as AIDS patients with a low CD4+ count and people receiving chemotherapy. It has been investigated for use in patients after liver transplantation, but fluconazole was found to be much more effective for preventing colonization, invasive infection, and death. It is effective in treating oral candidiasis in elderly people who wear dentures.\nIt is also used in very low birth-weight (less than 1500 g or 3\u00a0lb 5oz o) infants to prevent invasive fungal infections, although fluconazole is the preferred treatment. It has been found to reduce the rate of invasive fungal infections and also reduce deaths when used in these babies.\nLiposomal nystatin is not commercially available, but investigational use has shown greater \"in vitro\" activity than colloidal formulations of amphotericin B, and demonstrated effectiveness against some amphotericin B-resistant forms of fungi. It offers an intriguing possibility for difficult-to-treat systemic infections, such as invasive aspergillosis, or infections that demonstrate resistance to amphotericin B. \"Cryptococcus\" is also sensitive to nystatin. Additionally, liposomal nystatin appears to cause fewer cases of and less severe nephrotoxicity than observed with amphotericin B. \nAdverse effects.\nBitter taste and nausea are more common than most other adverse effects.\nThe oral suspension form produces a number of adverse effects including but not limited to:\nBoth the oral suspension and the topical form can cause:\nToo high of a dosage can potentially lead to additional side effects such as:\nMechanism of action.\nLike amphotericin B and natamycin, nystatin is an ionophore. It binds to ergosterol, a major component of the fungal cell membrane. When present in sufficient concentrations, it forms pores in the membrane that lead to K+ leakage, acidification, and death of the fungus. Ergosterol is a sterol unique to fungi, so the drug does not have such catastrophic effects on animals or plants. However, many of the systemic/toxic effects of nystatin in humans are attributable to its binding to mammalian sterols, namely cholesterol. This is the effect that accounts for the nephrotoxicity observed when high serum levels of nystatin are achieved. Despite the molecular similarities and differences of ergosterol and cholesterol, there is currently no consensus as to why nystatin has a higher binding affinity for ergosterol because it remains unclear how the nystatin pores are formed. Researchers have concluded thus far that nystatin pores are formed from 4-12 nystatin molecules, with an unknown number of the necessary sterol interactions.\nNystatin also impacts cell membrane potential and transport by lipid peroxidation. Conjugated double bonds in nystatin's structure steal electron density from ergosterol in fungal cell membranes. Lipid peroxidation alters the hydrophilicity of the interior of channels in the membrane, which is necessary to transport ions and polar molecules. Disruption of membrane transport from nystatin results in rapid cell death. Lipid peroxidation by nystatin also contributes significantly to K+ leakage due to structural modifications of the membrane.\nBiosynthesis.\nNystatin A1 (often called nystatin) is biosynthesized by a bacterial strain, \"Streptomyces noursei\". The structure of this active compound is characterized as a polyene macrolide with a deoxysugar -mycosamine, an aminoglycoside. The genomic sequence of nystatin reveals the presence of the polyketide loading module (nysA), six polyketide syntheses modules (nysB, nysC, nysI, nysJ, and nysK) and two thioesterase modules (nysK and nysE). It is evident that the biosynthesis of the macrolide functionality follows the polyketide synthase I pathway.\nFollowing the biosynthesis of the macrolide, the compound undergoes post-synthetic modifications, which are aided by the following enzymes: GDP-mannose dehydratase (nysIII), P450 monooxygenase (nysL and nysN), aminotransferase (nysDII), and glycosyltransferase (nysDI). The biosynthetic pathway is thought to proceed as shown to yield nystatin.\nThe melting point of nystatin is 44 - 46\u00a0\u00b0C.\nHistory.\nLike many other antifungals and antibiotics, nystatin has bacterial origin. It was isolated from \"Streptomyces noursei\" in 1950 by Elizabeth Lee Hazen and Rachel Fuller Brown, who were doing research for the Division of Laboratories and Research of the New York State Department of Health. Hazen found a promising micro-organism in the soil of a friend's dairy farm. She named it \"Streptomyces noursei\", after Jessie Nourse, the wife of the farm's owner. Hazen and Brown named nystatin after the New York State Health Department in 1954. The two discoverers patented the drug, and then donated the $13 million in profits to a foundation to fund similar research.\nOther uses.\nIt is also used in cellular biology as an inhibitor of the lipid raft-caveolae endocytosis pathway on mammalian cells, at concentrations around 3\u00a0\u03bcg/ml.\nIn certain cases, a nystatin derivative has been used to prevent the spread of mold on objects such as works of art. For example, it was applied to wood panel paintings damaged as a result of the Arno River Flood of 1966 in Florence, Italy.\nNystatin is also used as a tool by scientists performing \"perforated\" patch-clamp electrophysiological recordings of cells. When loaded in the recording pipette, it allows for measurement of electrical currents without washing out the intracellular contents, because it forms pores in the cell membrane that are permeable to only monovalent ions, preferably cations such as sodium, potassium, lithium, and cesium.\nAnother electrophysiological measurement that can be made is fusion event duration in a nystatin-ergosterol based system. Fusions are measured while the voltage is held constant, and is characterized by a spike in the current that then returns to the baseline current as the nystatin channels close. When present in smaller concentrations, nystatin momentarily forms pores that allows a vesicle fusion to occur more easily; that fusion then interrupts the pore stability and the nystatin and ergosterol disperse from each other. Conversely, researchers have found that the half-life of these nystatin pores increase with an increased dosage level of nystatin to the membrane systems. This indicates a lower energy of both the lipid membrane and the ionophores when there is a higher concentration of nystatin.\nFormulations.\nDue to its toxicity profile when high levels in the serum are obtained, no injectable formulations of nystatin are on the US market. However, injectable formulations have been investigated in the past."}
{"id": "732446", "revid": "19550900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732446", "title": "Lorentz factor", "text": "The Lorentz factor or Lorentz term (also known as the gamma factor) is a dimensionless quantity expressing how much the measurements of time, length, and other physical properties change for an object while it moves. The expression appears in several equations in special relativity, and it arises in derivations of the Lorentz transformations. The name originates from its earlier appearance in Lorentzian electrodynamics \u2013 named after the Dutch physicist Hendrik Lorentz.\nIt is generally denoted (the Greek lowercase letter gamma). Sometimes (especially in discussion of superluminal motion) the factor is written as (Greek uppercase-gamma) rather than .\nDefinition.\nThe Lorentz factor is defined as\nformula_1\nwhere:\nThis is the most frequently used form in practice, though not the only one (see below for alternative forms).\nTo complement the definition, some authors define the reciprocal\nformula_2\nsee velocity addition formula.\nOccurrence.\nFollowing is a list of formulae from Special relativity which use as a shorthand:\nCorollaries of the above transformations are the results:\nApplying conservation of momentum and energy leads to these results:\nNumerical values.\nIn the table below, the left-hand column shows speeds as different fractions of the speed of light (i.e. in units of ). The middle column shows the corresponding Lorentz factor, the final is the reciprocal. Values in bold are exact.\nAlternative representations.\nThere are other ways to write the factor. Above, velocity was used, but related variables such as momentum and rapidity may also be convenient.\nMomentum.\nSolving the previous relativistic momentum equation for leads to\nformula_13\nThis form is rarely used, although it does appear in the Maxwell\u2013J\u00fcttner distribution.\nRapidity.\nApplying the definition of rapidity as the hyperbolic angle formula_14:\nformula_15\nalso leads to (by use of hyperbolic identities):\nformula_16\nUsing the property of Lorentz transformation, it can be shown that rapidity is additive, a useful property that velocity does not have. Thus the rapidity parameter forms a one-parameter group, a foundation for physical models.\nBessel function.\nThe Bunney identity represents the Lorentz factor in terms of an infinite series of Bessel functions:\nformula_17\nSeries expansion (velocity).\nThe Lorentz factor has the following Maclaurin series:\nformula_18\nwhich is a special case of a binomial series.\nThe approximation formula_19 may be used to calculate relativistic effects at low speeds. It holds to within 1% error for \u00a0&lt; 0.4\u00a0 (\u00a0&lt; 120,000\u00a0km/s), and to within 0.1% error for \u00a0&lt; 0.22\u00a0 (\u00a0&lt; 66,000\u00a0km/s).\nThe truncated versions of this series also allow physicists to prove that special relativity reduces to Newtonian mechanics at low speeds. For example, in special relativity, the following two equations hold:\nformula_20\nFor formula_21 and formula_19, respectively, these reduce to their Newtonian equivalents:\nformula_23\nThe Lorentz factor equation can also be inverted to yield\nformula_24\nThis has an asymptotic form\nformula_25\nThe first two terms are occasionally used to quickly calculate velocities from large values. The approximation formula_26 holds to within 1% tolerance for and to within 0.1% tolerance for \nApplications in astronomy.\nThe standard model of long-duration gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) holds that these explosions are ultra-relativistic (initial greater than approximately 100), which is invoked to explain the so-called \"compactness\" problem: absent this ultra-relativistic expansion, the ejecta would be optically thick to pair production at typical peak spectral energies of a few 100\u00a0keV, whereas the prompt emission is observed to be non-thermal.\nMuons, a subatomic particle, travel at a speed such that they have a relatively high Lorentz factor and therefore experience extreme time dilation. Since muons have a mean lifetime of just 2.2\u00a0\u03bcs, muons generated from cosmic-ray collisions high in Earth's atmosphere should be nondetectable on the ground due to their decay rate. However, roughly 10% of muons from these collisions are still detectable on the surface, thereby demonstrating the effects of time dilation on their decay rate."}
{"id": "732447", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732447", "title": "Baron Falconer of Thoroton", "text": ""}
{"id": "732448", "revid": "39934507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732448", "title": "Amphotericin B", "text": "Amphotericin B is an antifungal medication used for serious fungal infections and leishmaniasis. The fungal infections it is used to treat include mucormycosis, aspergillosis, blastomycosis, candidiasis, coccidioidomycosis, and cryptococcosis. For certain infections it is given with flucytosine. It is typically given intravenously.\nCommon side effects include a reaction with fever, chills, and headaches soon after the medication is given, as well as kidney problems. Allergic symptoms including anaphylaxis may occur. Other serious side effects include low blood potassium and myocarditis (inflammation of the heart). It appears to be relatively safe in pregnancy. There is a lipid formulation that has a lower risk of side effects. It is in the polyene class of medications and works in part by interfering with the cell membrane of the fungus.\nAmphotericin B was isolated from \"Streptomyces nodosus\" in 1955 at the Squibb Institute for Medical Research from cultures isolated from the \"streptomycete\" obtained from the river bed of Orinoco in that region of Venezuela and came into medical use in 1958. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication.\nMedical uses.\nAntifungal.\nOne of the main uses of amphotericin\u00a0B is treating a wide range of systemic fungal infections. Due to its extensive side effects, it is often reserved for severe infections in critically ill or immunocompromised patients. It is considered first line therapy for invasive mucormycosis infections, cryptococcal meningitis, and certain aspergillus and candidal infections. It has been a highly effective drug for over fifty years in large part because it has a low incidence of drug resistance in the pathogens it treats. This is because amphotericin\u00a0B resistance requires sacrifices on the part of the pathogen that make it susceptible to the host environment, and too weak to cause infection.\nAntiprotozoal.\nAmphotericin B is used for life-threatening protozoan infections such as visceral leishmaniasis and primary amoebic meningoencephalitis.\nSpectrum of susceptibility.\nThe following table shows the amphotericin\u00a0B susceptibility for several medically important fungi.\nAvailable formulations.\nIntravenous.\nAmphotericin B alone is insoluble in normal saline at a pH of 7. Therefore, several formulations have been devised to improve its intravenous bioavailability. Lipid-based formulations of amphotericin\u00a0B are no more effective than conventional formulations, although some evidence suggests lipid-based formulations may be better tolerated and have fewer adverse effects.\nDeoxycholate.\nThe original formulation uses sodium deoxycholate to improve solubility. Amphotericin\u00a0B deoxycholate (ABD) is administered intravenously. As the original formulation of amphotericin, it is often referred to as \"conventional\" amphotericin.\nLiposomal.\nTo improve the tolerability of amphotericin and reduce toxicity, researchers developed several lipid formulations. Liposomal formulations have been found to have less renal toxicity than deoxycholate, and fewer infusion-related reactions. They are more expensive than amphotericin\u00a0B deoxycholate.\nAmBisome (liposomal amphotericin\u00a0B; LAMB) is a liposomal formulation of amphotericin\u00a0B for injection and consists of a mixture of phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol and distearoyl phosphatidylglycerol that in aqueous media spontaneously arrange into unilamellar vesicles that contain amphotericin\u00a0B. It was developed by NeXstar Pharmaceuticals (acquired by Gilead Sciences in 1999). It was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1997. It is marketed by Gilead in Europe and licensed to Astellas Pharma (formerly Fujisawa Pharmaceuticals) for marketing in the US, and Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals in Japan.\nLipid complex formulations.\nSeveral lipid complex preparations are also available. Abelcet was approved by the FDA in 1995. It consists of amphotericin\u00a0B and two lipids in a 1:1 ratio that form large ribbon-like structures. Amphotec is a complex of amphotericin and sodium cholesteryl sulfate in a 1:1 ratio. Two molecules of each form a tetramer that aggregates into spiral arms on a disk-like complex. It was approved by the FDA in 1996.\nBy mouth.\nAn oral preparation exists but is not widely available. The amphipathic nature of amphotericin along with its low solubility and permeability has posed major hurdles for oral administration given its low bioavailability. In the past it had been used for fungal infections of the surface of the GI tract such as thrush, but has been replaced by other antifungals such as nystatin and fluconazole.\nHowever, recently novel nanoparticulate drug delivery systems such as AmbiOnp, nanosuspensions, lipid-based drug delivery systems including cochleates, self-emulsifying drug delivery systems, solid lipid nanoparticles and polymeric nanoparticles\u2014such as amphotericin\u00a0B in pegylated polylactide coglycolide copolymer nanoparticles\u2014have demonstrated potential for oral formulation of amphotericin\u00a0B. The oral lipid nanocrystal amphotericin by Matinas Biopharma is furthest along, having completed a successful phase\u00a02 clinical trial in cryptococcal meningitis.\nSide effects.\nAmphotericin B is well known for its severe and potentially lethal side effects, earning it the nickname \"amphoterrible\". Very often, it causes a serious reaction soon after infusion (within 1 to 3 hours), consisting of high fever, shaking chills, hypotension, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, headache, dyspnea and tachypnea, drowsiness, and generalized weakness. The violent chills and fevers have caused the drug to be nicknamed \"shake and bake\". The precise etiology of the reaction is unclear, although it may involve increased prostaglandin synthesis and the release of cytokines from macrophages. Deoxycholate formulations (ABD) may also stimulate the release of histamine from mast cells and basophils. Reactions sometimes subside with later applications of the drug. This nearly universal febrile response necessitates a critical (and diagnostically difficult) professional determination as to whether the onset of high fever is a novel symptom of a fast-progressing disease or merely the effect of the drug. To decrease the likelihood and severity of the symptoms, initial doses should be low and increased slowly. Paracetamol, pethidine, diphenhydramine, and hydrocortisone have all been used to treat or prevent the syndrome, but the prophylactic use of these drugs is often limited by the patient's condition.\nIntravenously administered amphotericin\u00a0B in therapeutic doses has also been associated with multiple organ damage. Kidney damage, including Type\u00a0I (distal) renal tubular acidosis, is a frequently reported side effect, and can be severe and/or irreversible. Less kidney toxicity has been reported with liposomal formulations (such as AmBisome) and it has become preferred in patients with preexisting renal injury. The integrity of the liposome is disrupted when it binds to the fungal cell wall, but is not affected by the mammalian cell membrane, so the association with liposomes decreases the exposure of the kidneys to amphotericin\u00a0B, which explains its less nephrotoxic effects.\nIn addition, electrolyte imbalances such as hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia are also common. In the liver, increased liver enzymes and hepatotoxicity (up to and including fulminant liver failure) are common. In the circulatory system, several forms of anemia and other blood dyscrasias (leukopenia, thrombopenia), serious cardiac arrhythmias (including ventricular fibrillation), and even frank cardiac failure have been reported. Skin reactions are also possible, with rash &amp; itching occurring in about 17% of patients, in rare cases it can cause a serious skin reaction known as Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS).\nIn very rare instances, amphotericin B has also been shown to cause reversible ototoxicity causing tinnitus, vertigo, and temporary hearing loss. While there have been only a few reported cases, the hearing loss was temporary in all of them, with hearing showing improvement two weeks after discontinuing the drug.\nThe analogue AM-2-19 has been engineered to be less toxic to the kidneys.\nInteractions.\nDrug-drug interactions may occur when amphotericin\u00a0B is coadministered with the following agents:\nMechanism of action.\nAmphotericin B binds with ergosterol, a component of fungal cell membranes, forming pores that cause rapid leakage of monovalent ions (K+, Na+, H+ and Cl\u2212) and subsequent fungal cell death. This is amphotericin\u00a0B's primary effect as an antifungal agent. It has been found that the amphotericin B/ergosterol bimolecular complex that maintains these pores is stabilized by Van der Waals interactions. Researchers have found evidence that amphotericin\u00a0B also causes oxidative stress within the fungal cell, but it remains unclear to what extent this oxidative damage contributes to the drug's effectiveness. The addition of free radical scavengers or antioxidants can lead to amphotericin resistance in some species, such as \"Scedosporium prolificans\", without affecting the cell wall.\nTwo amphotericins, amphotericin\u00a0A and amphotericin\u00a0B, are known, but only B is used clinically, because it is significantly more active \"in vivo\". Amphotericin\u00a0A is almost identical to amphotericin\u00a0B (having a C=C double bond between the 27th and 28th carbons), but has little antifungal activity.\nMechanism of toxicity.\nMammalian and fungal membranes contain sterols, a primary membrane target for amphotericin\u00a0B. Because mammalian and fungal membranes are similar in structure and composition, this is one mechanism by which amphotericin\u00a0B causes cellular toxicity. Amphotericin\u00a0B molecules can form pores in the host membrane as well as the fungal membrane. This impairment in membrane barrier function can have lethal effects. Ergosterol, the fungal sterol, is more sensitive to amphotericin\u00a0B than cholesterol, the common mammalian sterol. Reactivity with the membrane is also sterol concentration dependent. Bacteria are not affected as their cell membranes do not usually contain sterols.\nAmphotericin B administration is limited by infusion-related toxicity. This is thought to result from innate immune production of proinflammatory cytokines.\nBiosynthesis.\nThe natural route to synthesis includes polyketide synthase (PKS) components. The carbon chains of amphotericin\u00a0B are assembled from sixteen 'C2' acetate and three 'C3' propionate units by polyketide syntheses. Polyketide biosynthesis begins with the decarboxylative condensation of a dicarboxylic acid extender unit with a starter acyl unit to form a \u03b2-ketoacyl intermediate. A series of Claisen reactions constructs the growing chain. The extender units are loaded onto the current ACP domain by acetyl transferase (AT) within each module. The ACP-bound elongation group reacts in a Claisen condensation with the KS-bound polyketide chain. Ketoreductase (KR), dehydratase (DH), and enoyl reductase (ER) enzymes may also be present to form alcohol, double bonds, or single bonds. After cyclisation, the macrolactone core undergoes further modification by hydroxylation, methylation and glycosylation. The order of these three post-cyclization processes is unknown.\nHistory.\nIt was originally extracted from \"Streptomyces nodosus\", a filamentous bacterium, in 1955, at the Squibb Institute for Medical Research from cultures of an undescribed streptomycete isolated from the soil collected in the Orinoco River region of Venezuela. Two antifungal substances were isolated from the soil culture, amphotericin\u00a0A and amphotericin\u00a0B, but B had better antifungal activity. For decades, it remained the only effective therapy for invasive fungal disease until the development of the azole antifungals in the early 1980s.\nIts complete stereo structure was determined in 1970 by an X-ray structure of the N-iodoacetyl derivative. The first synthesis of the compound's naturally occurring enantiomeric form was achieved in 1987 by K. C. Nicolaou.\nAmphotericin B was used to treat a patient with disseminated coccidioidomycosis who was admitted to the U.S. Public Health Service Hospital, Seattle, Washington, on January 16, 1957. \"The course was rapidly downhill with a grim prognosis as manifested by positive blood cultures, rising complement fixation titers, and failure of the skin to react to intradermal coccidioidin. Amphotericin\u00a0B was started eight weeks following the onset of his illness. Following this, there was a remarkable improvement both objectively and subjectively. A fourteen-month follow-up after drug discontinuation revealed stabilization of all laboratory studies except for a re-elevation of the complement fixation titer from 1 to 16 to 1 to 32. The patient was completely asymptomatic except for the sputum production containing a few spherules. The clinical effect of this drug in this patient has been most encouraging and agrees with results obtained by others. The lasting effect of the drug seems suggested by the patient's complete well-being after fourteen months of cessation of treatment. It is reasonable to assume that this drug will play a major part in the specific treatment of this disease.\" \nFormulations.\nIt is a subgroup of the macrolide antibiotics and exhibits similar structural elements. Currently, the drug is available in many forms. Either \"conventionally\" complexed with sodium deoxycholate (ABD), as a cholesteryl sulfate complex (ABCD), as a lipid complex (ABLC), and as a liposomal formulation (LAMB). The latter formulations have been developed to improve tolerability and decrease toxicity, but may show considerably different pharmacokinetic characteristics compared to conventional amphotericin\u00a0B.\nNames.\nAmphotericin's name originates from the chemical's amphoteric properties.\nIt is commercially known as Fungilin, Fungizone, Abelcet, AmBisome, Fungisome, Amphocil, Amphotec, and Halizon."}
{"id": "732450", "revid": "3488865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732450", "title": "Articles of Capitulation of Quebec", "text": "The Articles of Capitulation of Quebec were agreed upon between Jean-Baptiste Nicolas Roch de Ramezay, King's Lieutenant, Admiral Sir Charles Saunders, and General George Townshend on behalf of the French and British crowns during the Seven Years' War. They were signed on 18 September 1759, shortly after British victory in the Battle of the Plains of Abraham.\nAll 11 demands of De Ramsay were granted by the British Army: the honors of war, the protection of the civilians and their properties, the free exercise of the Roman Catholic religion, etc. Several months later, on 28 April 1760, the French Royal Army attempted to retake Quebec City, at the Battle of Sainte-Foy. Although victorious in battle, the French were unable to retake the city due to a lack of naval support. General Chevalier de L\u00e9vis lifted the siege after the French Navy was defeated at the Battle of Neuville.\nNearly a year after the Articles of Capitulation for Quebec was signed, the government of New France capitulated in Montreal on 8 September 1760 after a two-month British campaign."}
{"id": "732452", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732452", "title": "Baron Steel of Aikwood", "text": ""}
{"id": "732453", "revid": "159495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732453", "title": "BAE Systems plc", "text": ""}
{"id": "732456", "revid": "230475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732456", "title": "Veikko Aleksanteri Heiskanen", "text": "Veikko Aleksanteri Heiskanen (V. A. Heiskanen; also spelled Weikko Aleksanteri (or W. A.) Heiskanen; 23 July 1895 \u2013 23 October 1971) was a Finnish geodesist and geophysicist. He was known for his refinement of George Biddell Airy and John Henry Pratt's theories of isostasy into his own, the Heiskanen hypothesis. With Felix Andries Vening Meinesz, he wrote the textbook \"The Earth and its Gravity Field\" (1958), and in 1960 a paper by Heiskanen, \"The latest achievements of physical geodesy\" was discussed in the scientific literature. With Helmut Moritz, Heiskanen wrote the textbook \"Physical Geodesy\" (1967), which became a standard text the field of geodesy and for the study of the geoid. Heiskanen's doctoral students include Ivan I. Mueller.\nBorn 23 July 1895 in Kangaslampi, Finland, he grew up on a small farm. He attended the University of Helsinki and in three years received a Candidate in Philosophy degree (some texts state he received the Master of Science degree). In 1927 he received a Doctor of Philosophy degree from the university.\nThe Kaarina and Weikko A. Heiskanen Fund endows the Kaarina and Weikko A. Heiskanen Award, which is awarded annually by the Ohio State University. The university hosted the \"Weikko A. Heiskanen Symposium in Geodesy\" in 2002 to celebrate that geodesy had been studied at Ohio State for 50 years.\nA book, \"Surveyor of the Globe\", was written as a biography of Heiskanen by and published in 2008 and 2017.\nCareer chronology.\nSource: \"Nature\", 1949."}
{"id": "732459", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732459", "title": "Baron Molyneaux of Killead", "text": ""}
{"id": "732460", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732460", "title": "Albert Ket\u00e8lbey", "text": "Albert William Ket\u00e8lbey (; born Ketelbey; 9\u00a0August 1875\u00a0\u2013 26\u00a0November 1959) was an English composer, conductor and pianist, best known for his short pieces of light orchestral music. He was born in Birmingham and moved to London in 1889 to study at Trinity College of Music. After a brilliant studentship he did not pursue the classical career predicted for him, becoming musical director of the Vaudeville Theatre before gaining fame as a composer of light music and as a conductor of his own works.\nFor many years Ket\u00e8lbey worked for a series of music publishers, including Chappell &amp; Co and the Columbia Graphophone Company, making arrangements for smaller orchestras, a period in which he learned to write fluent and popular music. He also found great success writing music for silent films until the advent of talking films in the late 1920s.\nThe composer's early works in conventional classical style were well received, but it was for his light orchestral pieces that he became best known. One of his earliest works in the genre, \"In a Monastery Garden\" (1915), sold over a million copies and brought him to widespread notice; his later musical depictions of exotic scenes caught the public imagination and established his fortune. Such works as \"In a Persian Market\" (1920), \"In a Chinese Temple Garden\" (1923), and \"In the Mystic Land of Egypt\" (1931) became best-sellers in print and on records; by the late 1920s he was Britain's first millionaire composer. His celebrations of British scenes were equally popular: examples include \"Cockney Suite\" (1924) with its scenes of London life, and his ceremonial music for royal events. His works were frequently recorded during his heyday, and a substantial part of his output has been put on CD in more recent years.\nKet\u00e8lbey's popularity began to wane during the Second World War and his originality also declined; many of his post-war works were re-workings of older pieces and he increasingly found his music ignored by the BBC. In 1949 he moved to the Isle of Wight, where he spent his retirement, and he died at home in obscurity. His work has been reappraised since his death; in a 2003 poll by the BBC radio programme \"Your Hundred Best Tunes\", \"Bells Across the Meadows\" was voted the 36th most popular tune of all time. On the last night of the 2009 Proms season the orchestra performed his \"In a Monastery Garden\", marking the fiftieth anniversary of Ket\u00e8lbey's death\u2014the first time his music had been included in the festival's finale.\nBiography.\nEarly life and education, 1875\u201395.\nAlbert William Ket\u00e8lbey was born on 9\u00a0August 1875 at 41\u00a0Alma Street in the Aston area of Birmingham, England. He was the second of five children of George Henry, a jewellery engraver, and his wife Sarah Ann, Aston. The grave accent was Albert's invention: the family name was spelled without it at the time of his birth and there had been several variants of the name in the previous generations. All the children were taught a musical instrument and Ket\u00e8lbey's brother, Harold, was later a violinist of note. Albert showed a natural talent for the piano and singing, and he subsequently became head chorister at St Silas' Church in nearby Lozells. His younger sister was the historian Doris Ketelbey.\nAt the age of eleven Ket\u00e8lbey joined the Birmingham and Midland Institute school of music (now the Royal Birmingham Conservatoire) where he was tutored by Dr Alfred Gaul in composition and Dr H. W. Wareing in harmony. At the age of thirteen Ket\u00e8lbey composed his first serious piece of music, \"Sonata for Pianoforte\", which, for Tom McCanna, his biographer, \"shows a precocious mastery of composition\". Ket\u00e8lbey competed for a scholarship to Trinity College of Music in London, and received the highest marks of all entrants; the future composer Gustav Holst came second. Ket\u00e8lbey entered the college in 1889, studying under G. E. Bambridge (piano), Dr G. Saunders (harmony) and Frederick Corder (composition).\nIn 1892 Ket\u00e8lbey again won the annual scholarship competition and was appointed as the organist at St John's Church, Wimbledon, London. He held the post for the next five years, during which time he wrote several anthems and hymns, the latter of which included \"Every Good Gift\", \"Behold! Upon the Mountains\" and \"Be Strong! All ye People\". It was around this time he added the accent to his surname, with the aim of moving the stress onto the second syllable, rather than the first. In that year he appeared in a series of concerts in London and provincial cities. In March 1892 at the capital's Queen's Hall he played Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Chopin's Scherzo No.\u00a02 in B-flat minor; the reviewer for \"The Illustrated London News\" thought the \"brilliant\" Ket\u00e8lbey played \"most beautifully\". He won several prizes at the college before being awarded his certificate in 1895. During this period, \"The British Musician\" reports, some critics found likenesses between Ket\u00e8lbey's music and that of Edward German.\nTowards the end of his time at the college Ket\u00e8lbey wrote lighter, mostly mandolin-based, compositions. As he still aspired to be a serious composer, he adapted the pseudonym Raoul Clifford in an effort to distance himself from the genre. On leaving the college he became one of its examiners in harmony. He wrote piano pieces as part of his role, and used the pseudonym Anton Vodorinski for the work; he subsequently used the name for more serious works, which he published with French titles.\nEarly career, 1896\u20131914.\nIn 1896 Ket\u00e8lbey took up the post of conductor for a travelling light opera company; his father, who wanted his son to be a composer of serious music, disapproved of what he saw as a lightweight role. After a two-year tour Ket\u00e8lbey was appointed as musical director of the Opera Comique Theatre\u2014at age 22, the youngest theatrical conductor in London at the time. He moved into a house in Bruton Street, in London's Mayfair, where he wrote the song \"Blow! Blow! Thou Winter Wind\", to words from Shakespeare's \"As You Like It\". The Opera Comique staged a successful revival of the musical \"Alice in Wonderland\" between December 1898 and March 1899, and according to his biographer John Sant, it is possible that Ket\u00e8lbey wrote some of the music. This was followed by the comic opera \"A Good Time\" from April, for which Ket\u00e8lbey wrote the music and songs. Following poor reviews, the short run of the piece ended in May and the Opera Comique closed because of the losses brought about by the production. There, Ket\u00e8lbey began a relationship with the actress and singer Charlotte \"Lottie\" Siegenberg. The couple married in 1906 but the relationship was childless.\nKet\u00e8lbey wrote music in the style of the Gilbert and Sullivan works for a comic opera \"The Wonder Worker\", which was staged at the Grand Theatre, Fulham in 1900. The reviewer for the \"London Evening Standard\" thought Ket\u00e8lbey's score was \"attractive though conventional\u00a0... No originality is shown in conception or treatment, but the conception is appropriate, and the treatment effective.\" The same year Ket\u00e8lbey began undertaking transcription work at the music publisher A. Hammond &amp; Co, making arrangements of music for smaller orchestras. In 1904 he also began to work for a second music publisher, Chappell &amp; Co, a third in 1907, the Columbia Graphophone Company, and a fourth in 1910, when he worked for Elkin &amp; Co. McCanna considers that \"this hack-work may have been tedious, but the experience was invaluable in moulding the composer's fluent writing for both piano and orchestra\". Throughout the time working for the companies he continued to compose and publish his own work, comprising organ music, songs, duets, piano pieces and anthems. He worked for Columbia for over twenty years and rose to the position of Musical Director and Adviser, working with leading musicians across a range of musical styles; Columbia released more than 600 recordings with Ket\u00e8lbey conducting.\nIn 1912 the composer and cellist Auguste van Biene offered a prize for a new work to complement his popular piece \"The Broken Melody\". Ket\u00e8lbey was the winner of the competition with a new composition, \"The Phantom Melody\", which became his first major success. In the following year he won two prizes totalling \u00a3200 in a competition held by \"The Evening News\": second place with a song for female voices, and first place with his entry for male voices. The latter song, \"My Heart Still Clings to You\", is described by Sant as \"a typical tragical-love ballad of this time, and its almost Victorian sentimentality comes through in its words\". In the early to mid-1910s Ket\u00e8lbey began to write music for silent films\u2014a new growth industry in Britain from 1910 onwards\u2014and he had great success in the medium until the advent of talking films in the late 1920s.\nRising reputation and success, 1914\u201346.\nIn 1914 Ket\u00e8lbey wrote the orchestral work \"In a Monastery Garden\", which was published in the following year both as a piano piece and in full orchestral form. It was his first major success, his most famous piece, and became known all over the world; by 1920 over a million copies of the sheet music had been sold. There are two competing stories detailing the inspiration behind the piece: although Ket\u00e8lbey later said that he wrote the work for an old friend, he also stated that he composed it after visiting a monastery. The musicologist Peter Dempsey considers that \"this piece\u00a0... remains to this day a world-renowned staple of the light-music repertoire, while McCanna opines that from the first bar, listeners \"...\u00a0might sooner expect such a device in the impassioned world of a [Gustav] Mahler symphony than in a genteel English salon piece\". The success of \"The Phantom Melody\" and \"In a Monastery Garden\" led to Ket\u00e8lbey's engagement by Andr\u00e9 Charlot as the musical director for the 1916 revue \"Samples!\" at the Vaudeville Theatre. The appointment led to similar positions at other London theatres, including the Adelphi, Garrick, Shaftesbury and Drury Lane theatres.\nBecause of the rise in Ket\u00e8lbey's popularity, and in sales of his sheet music, in 1918 he became a member of the Performing Rights Society. Except for a brief interval in 1926 when he resigned over a dispute about the allocation of funds to its members, he remained a lifelong member. In 1919 he composed the romantic work \"In the Moonlight\", which his publisher considered to be \"a work of striking beauty\". In the following year he wrote \"Wedgwood Blue\"\u2014a gavotte\u2014and \"In a Persian Market\"; the latter became one of his more popular works. The musicologist Jonathan Bellman, calling \"In a Persian Market\" \"immortal\", describes it as \"an 'intermezzo scene' for band or small orchestra; reprehensibly demeaning or delightfully tacky\". The work was not without its critics; the composer and conductor Nicolas Slonimsky quotes the view of a Russian journal that \"the suite\u00a0... had its 'immaculate conception' in imperialistic colonial England. The composer's intention is to convince the listener that all's well in the colonies where beautiful women and exotic fruits mature together, where beggars and rulers are friends, where there are no imperialists, no restive proletarians.\" In \"The Musical Times\", the pseudonymous reviewer \"Ariel\" described the work as \"naive and inexpensive pseudo-orientalism\", which led to heated correspondence in the journal over the following months between the composer and the critic.\nIn 1921 Ket\u00e8lbey moved from his home in St John's Wood, where he had been living for the previous seven years, to Frognal, an area of Hampstead, north west London. He installed a billiards table in the basement, which became his favoured form of relaxation. He produced a series of orchestral pieces in the first half of the 1920s, including \"Bells Across the Meadows\" released in 1921, and \"Suite Romantique\" (1922), which the music critic Tim McDonald considers \"impressive\". In the following year Ket\u00e8lbey wrote \"In a Chinese Temple Garden\", followed in 1924 by \"Sanctuary of the Heart\" and \"Cockney Suite\". The last of these contained the finale \"'Appy 'Ampstead\", which the writers Lewis and Susan Foreman describe as \"...\u00a0a kaleidoscope of passing images, mouth organs, a cornet playing,\u00a0... a band,\u00a0... shouts of a showman\u00a0... with his rattle and a steam engine and roundabout\".\nIn 1923 the composer Frederic Austin wrote the opera \"Polly\", closely based on the 1729 work of the same name by John Gay and Johann Christoph Pepusch; recordings of Austin's work were published by Columbia's main rival, the Gramophone Company. At Columbia's request Ket\u00e8lbey produced his own version of Gay's original. Austin considered that it copied elements of his, and sued for copyright infringement. Acting as a court expert witness, the composer Sir Frederick Bridge thought that the case \"...\u00a0is an awful bore.\u00a0... These two good men are good musicians, and they have no business to be fighting over the game. It is not worth the trouble.\u00a0... It is rubbish. I am sick of \"Polly\".\" After three weeks the case ended with the judge finding against Columbia.\nSuch was Ket\u00e8lbey's popularity that by 1924 his works could be heard several times a day in restaurants and cinemas, and in that year the Lyons tea shops spent \u00a3150,000 on playing his music in their outlets. He continued to build on his success in 1925 with \"In a Lovers' Garden\" and \"In the Camp of the Ancient Britons\"\u2014inspired by a trip he took to Worlebury Camp, near Weston-super-Mare. He undertook annual tours of Britain, conducting his music with municipal orchestras, and also worked with the BBC Wireless Orchestra. He was invited to conduct several international orchestras, and spent time in Belgium, Germany, France, Switzerland and particularly in the Netherlands, where he built a strong relationship with the Concertgebouw and Kursaal Grand Symphony orchestras. His music was popular on the continent and his obituarist in \"The Times\" later reported that one Viennese critic considered that Ket\u00e8lbey's music was behind only that of Johann Strauss and Franz Leh\u00e1r. Continental audiences often called him \"The English Strauss\".\nKet\u00e8lbey was financially successful enough to leave Columbia Records in 1926 to spend more time composing, although he continued to conduct for them on an occasional basis, particularly between 1928 and 1930 when he conducted sixteen of his own works with the company, published as \"Ket\u00e8lbey Conducting his Concert Orchestra\". He spent his time undertaking annual conducting tours and composing, and in 1927 he published \"By the Blue Hawaiian Waters\" and the suite \"In a Fairy Realm\", while in the following year he wrote another suite, \"Three Fanciful Etchings\". His works continued to sell well, and in the October 1929 issue of the \"Performing Right Gazette\" his publisher described him as \"Britain's greatest living composer\"; when the advertisement was mentioned in \"The Musical Times\", the anonymous writer wrote \"we sympathise with Mr Ket\u00e8lbey in being thus raised to a pinnacle which he himself, we are sure, would be very far from claiming.\" Sant writes that Ket\u00e8lbey subsequently became Britain's first millionaire composer. In February 1930 he began what became an annual series of concerts at the Kingsway Hall, conducting a new work, \"The Clock and the Dresden Figures\". In a review of the 1933 concert, the critic S.R. Nelson wrote that \"as a descriptive writer Ket\u00e8lbey really does take some beating. He has the happy knack of combining infinitely melodious themes and the cleverly diluted likeness of the authentic atmosphere.\"\nThe introduction of talking films in 1927 with \"The Jazz Singer\" and the subsequent growth of the medium had a serious impact on composers and music publishers involved in the film industry as it heralded a decline in the sales of sheet music. Although Ket\u00e8lbey's income from this source declined, the period was also marked by a rise in the popularity of the radio and gramophones and his new compositions were successful with audiences at home. By the early 1930s over 1,500 broadcasts of his work were made on BBC Radio in a year, and more than 700 on continental radio stations, including a weekly Sunday programme of his music, sponsored by Decca Records on Radio Luxembourg. For this programme he wrote the theme music, \"Sunday Afternoon Reverie\", with the melody based on the musical notes D E C C A.\nKet\u00e8lbey wrote an intermezzo\u2014\"A Birthday Greeting\"\u2014in 1932, on the sixth birthday of Princess Elizabeth (later Queen Elizabeth II). His connection to royalty continued in 1934, when his march \"A State Procession\" was played to accompany the arrival of King George V at a Royal Command Performance; the king requested that the march should be played again during the interval, and he and the queen stayed in the royal box to listen to the piece. In the following year Ket\u00e8lbey wrote the march \"With Honour Crowned\" for the King's silver jubilee; the work was played for the royal family at Windsor Castle before Ket\u00e8lbey conducted its first public performance at Kingsway Hall. The work was played at that year's Trooping the Colour and at the Jubilee Thanksgiving Service at St Paul's Cathedral.\nKet\u00e8lbey continued to conduct on his annual tours during the Second World War, but these were on a smaller scale because of travel restrictions. He also continued with his annual concerts at Kingsway Hall, and introduced a new march, \"Fighting for Freedom\", which he had written in a supportive response to Winston Churchill's \"We shall fight on the beaches\" speech. Apart from composing and conducting, he also acted as a Special Constable during the war.\nPost-war; retirement and death, 1946\u201359.\nThe winter of 1946\u201347 was harsh, and in February the sub-zero temperatures burst the water main outside Ket\u00e8lbey's Hampstead home. With his house partially flooded, he lost most of his correspondence, manuscripts and papers, and he and his wife both contracted pneumonia. The couple were taken to the Regent's Park Nursing Home, where Lottie died two days later. He sold his house and moved temporarily to the Hendon Hall Hotel, where he had a nervous breakdown. He spent the remainder of the year staying in hotels in southern England; in Bournemouth he began a relationship with Mabel Maud Pritchett, a hotel manageress, and the couple married in October in the following year.\nIn 1949 Ket\u00e8lbey and his new wife moved to the Isle of Wight, and purchased Rookstone, Egypt Hill, in Cowes, where he partly retired, although he composed occasionally. Tastes in popular music had changed during and after the Second World War and his music declined in popularity; his income in 1940 had been \u00a33,493, which dropped to \u00a32,906 in 1950\u2014a particularly steep drop when wartime inflation is considered. McCanna writes that apart from a commission for the National Brass Band competition in 1945, Ket\u00e8lbey produced nothing memorable after the war, and his biographer Keith Anderson considers that in the postwar period Ket\u00e8lbey's work \"...\u00a0lacked novelty. Of the handful of works published\u00a0... most were reworkings of old material, although the composer attempted to disguise the origins\". The BBC also began to ignore his work. In their 1949 Festival of Light Music, none of his compositions were played, which he found distressing. In his letter to the Director-General of the BBC, Sir William Haley, Ket\u00e8lbey said the exclusion was \"a public insult\". His music still found an audience: in 1952 and 1953 \"With Honour Crowned\" was again played as a slow march at the Trooping the Colour ceremony.\nKet\u00e8lbey died in his Cowes home of heart and renal failure on 26\u00a0November 1959. By the time of his death he had slipped into obscurity. Only a handful of mourners attended his funeral, which was held at Golders Green Crematorium in London.\nMusic.\nUnder his own name and at least six pseudonyms, Ket\u00e8lbey composed several hundred works, about 150 of them for the orchestra. In the \"Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\", Phillip Scowcroft writes, \"His gifts for melody and sensitive, colourful scoring ensured continuing popularity with light orchestras and bands until after 1945. The most popular of his hundreds of pieces emphasize emotionalism and sometimes exaggerated effects at the expense of structure and harmonic subtlety.\"\nEarly works and serious music.\nKet\u00e8lbey's early compositions are classical and orthodox in form, reflecting the training at Trinity College. The first substantial work was a piano sonata (1888); it was followed by a Caprice for piano and orchestra (1892), a Concertst\u00fcck for piano and orchestra (circa 1893) and a piano concerto in G minor (1895). Ket\u00e8lbey's piano writing was notable for its brilliance, and the composer's own performance of the solo part of the Concertst\u00fcck brought out that quality. As a student, Ket\u00e8lbey composed a cadenza for the first movement of Beethoven's First Piano Concerto, judged \"clever and effective\" in performance in 1890.\nFor the chamber repertoire, Ket\u00e8lbey composed a string quartet (c.\u00a01896) and a quintet for piano and wind (1896) which won the Costa Prize and the College Gold Medal. His 1894 Romance for violin and piano was praised as \"a charming, musicianly work\". His other early works include choral pieces, including the anthems \"Every good Gift\"; \"Behold upon the mountains\", and \"Be strong, all ye people\" (all 1896). After these works he moved professionally into conducting light opera, and serious music became the exception rather than the rule in his compositions.\nKet\u00e8lbey's concert music was less well known in England than in continental Europe, where he conducted many programmes of his own works for the Concertgebouw Orchestra and others. The composer's more avowedly serious music was less widely esteemed by his compatriots. In a 1928 profile the magazine \"The British Musician\" commented, \"There is no need to explain here why his serious music, whether written thirty years ago or as recently as 1927\u00a0... has not won the popularity of, say, Edward German's dances: it is pleasant music, delightfully scored; but it is not so fascinating as that from which it derives\u2014the music of the Viennese writers of dance music, of Delibes and Gounod and the like.\" The reviewer added, \"Albert Ket\u00e8lbey's works of the \"Monastery Garden\" type are by far the best that anyone in this country has written, and they represent the end to which he was born.\"\nLight orchestral.\nKet\u00e8lbey, a capable player of the cello, clarinet, oboe, and horn, was a skilled orchestrator. He generally followed the normal style for light music of his day: picturesque and romantic, with colourful orchestral effects. Reviewing a collection of Ket\u00e8lbey's music, the authors of \"The Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music\" commented in 2008, \"when vulgarity is called for it is not shirked\u2014only it's a stylish kind of vulgarity!\" Many of Ket\u00e8lbey's pieces are programmatic, typically lasting between four and six minutes. His penchant for arranging his works for various combinations of instruments makes them harder to categorise than the works of many other composers. His first two pieces to make a mark with a wide public were \"The Phantom Melody\" (1911) and \"In a Monastery Garden\" (1915), both best known in their orchestral versions, but originally written for cello and piano and for solo piano respectively. For the familiar orchestral version of the second of these pieces the composer published a synopsis:\nKet\u00e8lbey followed the same basic formula for many of his most popular later works. For \"In a Persian Market\" his synopsis notes \"the camel drivers approaching, the cries of beggars, entry of beautiful princess (represented by a languorous theme given at first to clarinet and cello and then full orchestra)\u00a0... she watches the jugglers and snake-charmers\u00a0... the Caliph passes by, interrupting the entertainment\u00a0... all depart, their themes heard faintly in the distance, and the marketplace becomes deserted.\" Ket\u00e8lbey establishes the eastern setting in the opening section, employing the distinctive melodic intervals, A\u2013B\u2013E. The orchestral players are instructed to sing at two points in the score, a descending motif representing beggars crying for baksheesh. Although one contemporary critic belittled the music as \"pseudo-orientalism\", McCanna comments that \"The princess portrayed by the big romantic theme is a cousin of the princesses in Stravinsky's \"Firebird\"\".\nKet\u00e8lbey sought to repeat the exoticism of \"In a Persian Market\" in several later pieces. Among them is \"In a Chinese Temple Garden\" (1923), described as an \"oriental phantasy\", with episodes depicting a priestly incantation, two lovers, a wedding procession, a street brawl and the restoration of calm by the beating of the temple gong. Another example is \"In the Mystic Land of Egypt\" (1931), which, like its Persian predecessor, opens with a vigorous march theme followed by a broad romantic melody. Again, the composer employs unconventional musical devices for colour\u2014in this case a chromatic scale, descending at each appearance until the closing bars, where it is inverted. In 1958, the critic Ronald Ever wrote that Ket\u00e8lbey was noted for his use of \"every exotic noisemaker known to man\u2014chimes, orchestra bells, gongs (all sizes and nationalities), cymbals, woodblocks, xylophone, drums of every variety\". Ever commented that Ket\u00e8lbey's exoticism had left an immovable impression of eastern music on western ears, to which \"Oriental music is Ket\u00e8lbey music: the clashing cymbals; the little pinging bells; the minor modes; the amazingly graphic mincing step created by rapidly reiterated notes; the coy taps on the woodblock.\"\nAmong Ket\u00e8lbey's light orchestral works with a wholly British flavour is \"Bells Across the Meadows\" (1921), redolent, in the words of McDonald, of \"rose-entwined thatched cottages standing amidst gardens full of hollyhocks with a gentle brook bubbling on its rustic way and cows grazing peacefully in the pastures beyond\". Urban life was evoked in the five-movement \"Cockney Suite\" (1924), described by \"The Times\" as \"character pieces complete with leering saxophone, cheeky mouth-organ, and some infernally catchy tunes\". Ket\u00e8lbey depicts successively a royal procession from Buckingham Palace to the Houses of Parliament; an East End pub, with a main theme based on the Cockney ditty \"'Arf a pint of mild and bitter\"; a waltz at a \"palais de danse\"; a sombre glimpse of the Cenotaph in Whitehall; and in the finale, \"'Appy 'Ampstead\", a picture of the August Bank Holiday fair on Hampstead Heath.\nMuch of the music Ket\u00e8lbey wrote as accompaniment to silent films between 1915 and 1929, though lucrative at the time, has proved ephemeral, although he reused and rearranged some of it in solo pieces for amateur pianists. With the requirements of cinemas of all sizes in mind, his film music was published in the \"Bosworth Loose Leaf Film Play Music Series\" in versions for solo piano or for small orchestras. The titles offered included \"Dramatic Agitato\", \"Amaryllis\" (described by the composer as \"suitable for use in dainty, fickle scenes\"), \"Mystery\" (\"greatly in favour for uncanny and weird picturizations\"), \"Agitato Furioso\" (\"famous for its excellence in playing to riots, storms, wars, etc.\") and \"Bacchanale de Montmartre\" (for \"cabaret, orgy and riotous continental scenes\").\nInstrumental works.\nIn addition to arrangements for solo instruments of his popular orchestral works, Ket\u00e8lbey wrote a range of music for organ and for piano. Some of the more serious of these pieces were published under his \"Vodorinski\" pen name. Among the organ works are \"Pastorale\" and \"R\u00eaverie dramatique\", both dating from about 1911. The piano works include the early classical pieces such as the 1888 Sonata, and shorter items in a more popular style, such as \"R\u00eaverie\" (1894) and \"Les p\u00e8lerins\" (1925), by way of \"A Romantic Melody\" (1898), \"Pens\u00e9es joyeuses\" (1888), \"In the Woodlands\" (1921), \"A Song of Summer\" (1922), and \"L\u00e9gende triste\" (1923). The musical influences on his piano works were on the whole conservative: for the early works McCanna mentions Haydn and Mendelssohn in this context. Much of the piano music published in the years after the First World War was aimed at a domestic audience; it requires only a modest technical proficiency to play and is simple in structure with deft harmonies. The most commercially successful of the Vodorinski works was the Prelude in C minor (1907). McCanna comments that not only the title but the material is reminiscent of Rachmaninoff: \"the music turns out to copy some of the more illustrious composer's features, notably the final fortissimo statement of the melody in the bass\". Ket\u00e8lbey followed Chopin's model in several waltzes in the key of A major, including \"La gr\u00e2cieuse\" (1907) and two different pieces under the title Valse brillante (1905 and 1911).\nSongs.\nThroughout his career Ket\u00e8lbey composed songs, providing the words for most of those written after 1913. His first, unpublished, song, \"Be Still, Sad Heart\" dates from 1892, and during the rest of the 1890s he wrote songs for children as well as sentimental ballads like \"Believe Me True\" (1897) for their seniors. Many had words by Florence Hoare, whose other lyrics included English words for songs by Tchaikovsky, Gounod and Brahms. Ket\u00e8lbey's popular ballads included \"The Heart's Awakening\" (1907), \"My Heart-a-dream\" (1909), \"I Loved You More Than I Knew\" (1912), \"My Heart Still Clings to You\" (1913), \"Will You Forgive?\" (1924), and \"A Birthday Song\" (1933). He wrote patriotic songs for use in three wars: \"There's Something in the English After all\" (1899, during the Boer War), \"The Trumpet Voice of Motherland is Calling\" (1914, for the First World War) and \"Fighting for Freedom\" (1941, during the Second World War). His sole Shakespeare setting, \"Blow! Blow! Thou Winter Wind\" (1898, revised 1951), was written as incidental music for a production of \"As You Like It\".\nReputation and legacy.\nThe obituarist for \"The Musical Times\" wrote that \"Ket\u00e8lbey's especial fame\u00a0... consisted in his phenomenal success as a composer of light music. His remarkable gift for alluring tunes, rich in homely sentiment, was reflected in the immense popularity of [his] pieces\". McCanna opines that Ket\u00e8lbey's popularity\nlay in its memorable expressive melodies combined with its ability to set the scene by enhanced use of different kinds of colour: local colour in the choice of characteristic settings, often with explicit narrative captions printed above the music; musical colour in the form of exotic scales and harmonies; orchestral colour in the novel use of singing by the players and of sound effects executed by the drummer.\nDuring his tenure at Columbia, Ket\u00e8lbey promoted the works of several composers, including Haydn Wood, Charles Ancliffe, Ivor Novello, James W. Tate and Kenneth J. Alford, helping to increase the popularity of British light music. Ronnie Ronalde made \"In a Monastery Garden\" his signature tune from 1958, while Serge Gainsbourg used the theme of \"In a Persian Market\" for his 1977 song \"My Lady H\u00e9ro\u00efne\".\nDempsey, writing in 2001, considered that Ket\u00e8lbey's \"late-Romantic tone miniatures\u00a0... are deserving of reappraisal\". The composer's reputation has improved over time, and the cultural historian Andrew Blake identifies a \"form of 'cult following'\" for him. In the 21st century, Ket\u00e8lbey's music is still frequently heard on radio and in a 2003 poll by the BBC radio programme \"Your Hundred Best Tunes\", \"Bells across the Meadows\" was voted thirty-sixth most popular tune of all time. The last night of the corporation's 2009 Proms season included \"In a Monastery Garden\" to mark the fiftieth anniversary of Ket\u00e8lbey's death; it was the first time the tune had been included in the festival's finale. Tim Page, the music critic for \"The Washington Post\", considers that Ket\u00e8lbey's work expresses an \"ornate, perfumed, genteel Orientalism [which] found expression in miniatures\"; he adds that \"all of Ket\u00e8lbey's music is pretty weird\u2014deeply derivative yet unmistakably personal, tidy in form yet grandiose in execution, amiable and often touching despite its unashamed mawkishness.\""}
{"id": "732461", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732461", "title": "Lord Mayhew of Twysden", "text": ""}
{"id": "732462", "revid": "32860082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732462", "title": "Nicole Fontaine", "text": "Nicole Fontaine (; 16 January 1942 \u2013 17 May 2018) was a French politician who served as Member of the European Parliament for the \u00cele-de-France from 1984 until 2002 and from 2004 until 2009. She was a member of the Union for a Popular Movement, part of the European People's Party. Fontaine was the President of the European Parliament from 1999 to 2002 and was then replaced by Pat Cox, from the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, in accordance with an agreement between the two groups at the start of the term.\nEarly life and education.\nBorn in 1942 in Normandy, the daughter of a doctor and the granddaughter of primary school teachers, she was awarded a degree in law in 1962 at the age of 20, the diploma of the Sciences Po in 1964 and a doctorate in public law in 1969. She was a lawyer and a member of the bar of the department of Hauts-de-Seine. Republished four times and widely distributed, her doctoral thesis on relations between the State and private teaching establishments linked by contract to the public sector has become the standard reference work in that area.\nPolitical career.\nFor almost 20 years Fontaine had national responsibility for the sensitive issue of relations between the private education sector and the public authorities at the Secr\u00e9tariat g\u00e9n\u00e9ral de l'Enseignement catholique (Catholic Education Secretariat), first of all as legal adviser, then as deputy secretary-general from 1972 to 1981 and finally as chief representative from 1981 to 1984. She was closely involved in discussions concerning and often the driving force behind the legislative and statutory changes which, over a period of two decades, shaped the legal framework which provides for balanced relations between the State and the private establishments linked by contract to the public education service.\nFontaine was a member of the Conseil sup\u00e9rior de l'Education nationale (National Education Council) from 1975 to 1981 and a member of its standing committee from 1978 to 1981. Between 1980 and 1984 she was a member of the Conseil \u00e9conomique et social (Economic and Social Council), to which she submitted a report on publishing policy.\nMember of the European Parliament, 1984\u20132002.\nFontaine entered politics late in her career to become a Member of the European Parliament in the 1984 elections, in the wake of the major demonstration in Paris in favour of private education which ultimately led to a settlement based on the principle of freedom of education. During her first term of office, her work focused on an area whose importance for the future is still underestimated, given the predominance of economic issues: a citizens' Europe. In that connection, she concentrated more particularly on projects concerning youth, community life and the mutual recognition of diplomas, the key to professional mobility and freedom of establishment throughout the European Community.\nShe worked primarily as a member of three parliamentary committees: the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.\nIn the 1989 elections, Fontaine was re-elected to the European Parliament on the centrist list led by Simone Veil and elected vice-president of the European Parliament. In that capacity, she was a member of Parliament's Bureau and represented the Assembly on the European Parliament - National Parliaments Joint Delegation.\nIn January 1994 Fontaine was appointed by her political group, the European People's Party, to sit as a permanent member on the Conciliation Committee established by the Maastricht Treaty; the role of that committee is to settle disputes outstanding at the end of legislative procedures involving the European Council of Ministers and the European Parliament. She was the only French permanent member of the committee. She was also chairman of the European Parliament delegation to the Conference of Parliamentary Committees for Union Affairs of Parliaments of the European Union (COSAC), which is the forum for cooperation between the national parliaments and the European Parliament.\nIn the run-up to the 1994 European Parliament election, Fontaine published a work intended to make the general public more familiar with the European Parliament, entitled Les d\u00e9put\u00e9s europ\u00e9ens: Qui sont-ils? Que font-ils? (MEPs: who are they? what do they do?). In June 1994 she was re-elected to the European Parliament for a third term of office. In July she was also re-elected a vice-president of the Parliament and became, by virtue of the number of votes obtained, first vice-president of the European Parliament. She retained that position in January 1997. In that capacity, she co-chaired the Conciliation Committee with the president-in-office of the Council of Ministers.\nIn August 1997 Fontaine published a guide to community aid schemes, entitled \"L'Europe de vos initiatives\", and then in October 1998 a layman's guide to the Amsterdam Treaty entitled Le trait\u00e9 d'Amsterdam, \u00e0 l'attention de ceux qui aimeraient s'int\u00e9resser \u00e0 l'Europe si elle \u00e9tait moins obscure (the Amsterdam Treaty for those who would like to take an interest in Europe but find it difficult to understand).\nAt the national level, Fontaine served as vice president of the UDF and, as an ex-officio member, of the UDF's Executive Committee and Political Bureau. In second place on the list led by Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou, she was re-elected to the European Parliament in June 1999.\nStanding against M\u00e1rio Soares for the post of President of the European Parliament, she was elected by a majority of the votes cast in the first round on 20 July 1999. She led the Parliament from 1999 to 2002. A profile by \"The Economist\" from that time described her as \"a consensus-seeker, coalition-builder, conciliator ... nowhere more at home than in the Byzantine corridors of Europe, canvassing cross-party support, flashing her smile, teasing out compromise\".\nCareer in the French government.\nFontaine served as France's industrial minister between 2002 and 2004 in the government of President Jacques Chirac.\nMember of the European Parliament, 2004\u20132009.\nIn her final term as a member of the European Parliament, Fontaine served on the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. In addition to her committee assignments, she was a member of the Parliament's delegation for relations with Afghanistan.\nPolitical positions.\nIn 2007, Fontaine led an unsuccessful campaign to press for French to be designated the European Union's benchmark legal language.\nRecognition.\nPaying tribute to her, President Emmanuel Macron said: \"For 35 years of her life, she fought for the European project\"."}
{"id": "732463", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732463", "title": "Baron Mayhew of Twysden", "text": ""}
{"id": "732465", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732465", "title": "Demokratska Stranka", "text": ""}
{"id": "732467", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732467", "title": "Baron Inge", "text": ""}
{"id": "732468", "revid": "32233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732468", "title": "Wilno University", "text": ""}
{"id": "732469", "revid": "32233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732469", "title": "Academy of Wilno", "text": ""}
{"id": "732470", "revid": "32233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732470", "title": "Stefan Batory University", "text": ""}
{"id": "732472", "revid": "32233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732472", "title": "University of Vilnius", "text": ""}
{"id": "732473", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732473", "title": "Lord Inge", "text": ""}
{"id": "732474", "revid": "43918024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732474", "title": "Jeremy Belknap", "text": "Jeremy Belknap (June 4, 1744 \u2013 June 20, 1798) was an American clergyman and historian. His great achievement was the \"History of New Hampshire\", published in three volumes between 1784 and 1792. This work is the first modern history written by an American, embodying a new rigor in research, annotation, and reporting.\nEarly life.\nBelknap was born in Boston, Province of Massachusetts Bay, the son of a tanner. His uncle was Mather Byles, one of New England's intellectual leaders. Belknap was baptized by the historian Thomas Prince, another leading figure of 18th-century New England. He was educated at the Boston Latin School and Harvard College, where he graduated in 1762. In 1764 he moved to Portsmouth, New Hampshire, where he \"kept the school\" and studied theology with Samuel Haven (Harvard College class of 1749). In 1767 he began his ministry in Dover, New Hampshire, where he would spend twenty years at the Congregational Church. He also married that year and acquired a house in Dover.\nAfter the Battle of Lexington in 1775 some units of the Dover militia were called out to support the Siege of Boston. Belknap accompanied them and remained through the next winter as chaplain to the New Hampshire troops involved with the siege.\nHistory of New Hampshire.\nBesides attending to his growing congregation, Belknap served as a secretary to the convention of New Hampshire ministers from 1769 until 1787. This position required travel throughout the state, and he used it as a chance to begin accumulating notes on the history of New Hampshire. In 1772 he began to write his history. In 1784 he published the first volume of the \"History of New Hampshire\", but it would take until 1792 to complete the work. The work was not successful at first, and sales were disappointing, and did better around Boston than in New Hampshire. Its reputation grew over the years, however, and after his death, Alexis de Tocqueville named him as America's best native historian.\nThe \"History\" represented a new approach in its field. Besides just narrating events, he added two innovations. He tried to clearly separate facts from analysis and opinion, and he provided many annotations to show the source and location of records that he had inspected.\nRecognition.\nBesides his \"History\", Belknap began work on an American biographical dictionary in 1779. This effort caused him to begin corresponding with many of the leading men of letters, politics, and religion throughout the colonies. He would eventually publish his \"American Biographies\" in two volumes in 1794 and 1798. In the meantime, his efforts brought him to the attention of intellectual leaders across the country.\nBelknap was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 1784. In 1785 he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. This latter association also resulted in an offer to return to Boston.\nMassachusetts career.\nBelknap accepted a new position in 1787, when he moved back to Boston to become pastor of the Federal Street Church. He would serve there until his death. He remained active in research, writing, and promoting American history as a field.\nHe continued his quest into history, seeking ways to report and preserve historic sources. On January 24, 1791, he invited nine friends with similar interests to meet at his home. They agreed to help build a repository for these records. The meeting resulted in the Massachusetts Historical Society, which was the first historical society and served as a prototype for many later ones. They also pledged to contribute family papers. John Eliot, a fourth-generation descendant of the 17th-century \"Apostle to the Indians\" and himself a minister, added Governor Thomas Hutchinson's manuscript for the \"History of Massachusetts Bay\", which his father Andrew Eliot had saved during the Revolution when a mob looted the governor's home.\nIn 1792 Belknap published his \"An Historical Account of those persons who have been distinguished in America\", which was the first of a distinguished line of dictionaries of American biography. That same year, he became one of the overseers of Harvard University.\nDeath and legacy.\nBelknap died in Boston and was buried at the Granary Burying Ground. His remains were later re-interred in Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Belknap County, New Hampshire, is named in his honor. He is featured on a New Hampshire historical marker (number 51) along the Spaulding Turnpike in Dover."}
{"id": "732475", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732475", "title": "Lady Amos", "text": ""}
{"id": "732479", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732479", "title": "Baron Lang of Monkton", "text": ""}
{"id": "732481", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732481", "title": "Lady Ludford", "text": ""}
{"id": "732483", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732483", "title": "Lady Fookes", "text": ""}
{"id": "732484", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732484", "title": "Publius Ostorius Scapula", "text": "Publius Ostorius Scapula (died 52) was a Roman statesman and general who governed Britain from 47 until his death, and was responsible for the defeat and capture of Caratacus.\nEarly life.\nPublius Ostorius Scapula was the son of a Publius and likely the nephew of Quintus Ostorius Scapula, the first joint commander of the Praetorian Guard appointed by Augustus and later prefect of Egypt. The Quintus Ostorius Scapula who was consul in 41 AD was probably his brother or cousin.\nCareer.\nNothing is known of his early career. He was suffect consul, probably in 46. In the winter of 47 he was appointed the second governor of Roman Britain by the emperor Claudius, succeeding Aulus Plautius. The south and east of the island was securely occupied and alliances had been made with tribes outside the Roman-controlled area, but other tribes continued to resist. Believing a new governor would be reluctant to campaign so late in the year, they staged attacks and uprisings.\nOstorius disabused them of this notion and responded vigorously, attacking relentlessly and allowing the native resistance no time to regroup. He apparently (based on an emendation of a corrupt passage in Tacitus's \"Annals\") declared his intention to disarm all the Britons south and east of the rivers Trent and Severn. The geographical area described has led to discussion about the role of the Fosse Way as a desired frontier line during the period, as it links the Trent and the Severn.\nThe Iceni, a tribe based in Norfolk who had not been conquered but allied themselves with the Romans voluntarily, objected to this plan and led neighbouring tribes in an uprising. Ostorius defeated them by storming a hill fort, possibly Stonea Camp in the Fens near March in Cambridgeshire, in a hard-fought battle. His son, Marcus Ostorius Scapula, won the \"corona civica\" for saving a Roman citizen's life during the fighting. The Iceni remained independent, and it is likely that Prasutagus was installed as a pro-Roman ruler at this time.\nAfter putting down the rebellion he began expeditions beyond the frontier, beginning with a productive campaign against the Deceangli tribe in north Wales and the Cheshire Gap in 48. This was an astute move as it divided the tribes of North Britain from those in Wales. He was recalled east however after a new rebellion by a faction of the Brigantes. This was quickly suppressed but revealed the dangers in the Romans' client kingdom system of which the Brigantes were a part; troops from the \"Legio XIV Gemina\" were stationed in the area to keep the Brigantian peace. At this time the \"Legio II Augusta\" held the command in the south east, the \"Legio IX Hispana\" was campaigning the north east beyond the Trent, the \"Legio XX Valeria Victrix\" held Colchester and the \"Legio XIV\" was based at Wroxeter.\nOstorius initiated further Romanisation during his command in the safer southern lands, founding Britain's first colony of military veterans at Camulodunum (modern Colchester) in 49 and probably establishing a \"municipium\" at Verulamium (St Albans). His tactical skill rather than his political acumen was his strength however. He had received a difficult brief as the Claudian lowlands were economically unspectacular and Britain's mineral wealth lay in the barbarian lands instead. Capture of these would have to wait until later years.\nIn the meantime, Caratacus, whose tribe, the Catuvellauni, had been defeated in the first phase of the conquest, had re-emerged as a leader of the Silures of south east Wales. Their rising was controlled by a programme of legionary fortress construction, driving Caratacus north into the lands of the Ordovices. Ostorius managed to force him into an open conflict, after several years of guerrilla war. They fought a battle, probably near the River Severn and possibly near Caersws, where the Romans defeated the British leader in 51.\nThe Ordovices had fortified a ridge of steep hills above the river and the difficulty of the terrain behind them made an encircling manoeuvre by the Romans impossible. Although Ostorius was concerned at the seemingly impregnable defences, Tacitus records that the eagerness and loyalty of his troops persuaded him to attack and in the end the Britons were easily defeated. Caratacus' wife and daughter were captured and his brother surrendered while Caratacus himself fled to the territory of the Brigantes. However their queen, Cartimandua, was loyal to Rome and handed him over in chains.\nAfter the battle, Ostorius was honoured with triumphal insignia but the victory did not entirely quell resistance in the Welsh borders. The Silures especially continued to harass Roman troops, supposedly after Ostorius had publicly said that they posed such a danger that they should be either exterminated or transplanted. A large legionary force occupied in building forts in Silurian territory was surrounded and attacked and only rescued with difficulty and considerable loss. This violent desperation on the part of the Silures can be attributed to their reaction to what Peter Salway calls Ostorius' lack of political judgment. The Silures had been galvanised by Ostorius' ill-thought out threats to destroy them and began taking Roman prisoners as hostages and distributing them amongst their neighbouring tribes. This had the effect of binding them all together and creating a new resistance movement.\nOstorius died unexpectedly in 52, supposedly \"worn out with care\" as Tacitus puts it, leaving Rome with a growing problem on its British frontiers. It has been claimed that his final resting place is in Clawdd Coch in the Vale of Glamorgan, southeast Wales. Silurian raids continued, defeating a legion led by Gaius Manlius Valens, before Aulus Didius Gallus arrived as replacement governor. The complete pacification of the area was achieved only 25 years later by Sextus Julius Frontinus.\nFamily.\nA Sallustia Calvina is attested as the wife of a Publius Ostorius Scapula, possibly the governor or his father, if the wife of the governor she might have been the daughter of Gaius Sallustius Passienus Crispus and Junia Calvina."}
{"id": "732485", "revid": "40231662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732485", "title": "Articles of Capitulation of Montreal", "text": "The Articles of Capitulation of Montreal were agreed upon between the Governor General of New France, Pierre Fran\u00e7ois de Rigaud, Marquis de Vaudreuil-Cavagnal, and Major-General Jeffery Amherst on behalf of the French and British crowns. They were signed on 8 September 1760 in the British camp before the city of Montreal, during the French and Indian War after a two-month campaign which led to the fall of the city.\nThere were 55 articles, including a large array of demands with regard to the protection of the inhabitants of New France: the French, the Canadians, the Acadians, and the First Nations. De Vaudreuil demanded that all be granted the rights and privileges of the other British subjects. These consisted an amnesty of Canadian militiamen who had fought for the French, the free exercise of the Roman Catholic faith, the continuation of the ownership of black and Indian slaves by French Canadians, the continuation of the rights and privileges of the clergy and seigneurs and the guarantee of the rights enjoyed by the native peoples under the French regime. Most were granted by the British Army except those with reference to the Acadians.\nAlthough the articles were drafted without participation from First Nations, Article 40 of the treaty recognized their sovereignty and autonomy, promising to uphold their right to their lands and religion and avoid punishment for having fought for the French."}
{"id": "732486", "revid": "47540358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732486", "title": "Mazda MX-6", "text": "The Mazda MX-6 is a front-engine, front-wheel-drive coup\u00e9 manufactured and marketed by Mazda from 1987 to 1997 across two generations.\nMechanically identical to the Ford Probe, the Capella/626 and its hatchback platform mate, the Ford Telstar, these cars shared the GD (1988\u20131992) and GE (1993\u20131997) platforms. The MX-6 replaced the 626 Coup\u00e9, although it continued to share the same chassis.\nThe MX-6, 626, and Ford Probe were manufactured at joint-venture plants either by AutoAlliance in Flat Rock, Michigan, for the North American market, and by Mazda Japan for Asian and European markets.\nFirst generation (1987\u20131992).\nThe first-generation MX-6 appeared in 1987 and lasted until 1992 in the United States. In some markets, the model years were from 1987 to 1991. It was based on a series of futuristic sports compact concept cars of the early 1980s. It was a large coup\u00e9, based on the Mazda GD platform, and was powered by the inline-four Mazda F engines. It used the Mazda G4A-EL four-speed electronic-shift automatic transmission.\nThe US market made use of the F2 2.2-liter engine, with the base engine producing . The turbocharged option produces . European and Japanese market versions were shipped with either the 1.8\u00a0L F8 or the 2.0\u00a0L FE or FE-DOHC DOHC engines.\nThe MX-6 was produced with two transmission options, a five-speed manual transmission or a four-speed automatic with overdrive.\nThis generation was available in several trim levels, which differed depending on the market in which the vehicle was sold. In the United States, the MX-6 was available in \"DX\", \"LX\", \"LE\", and \"GT\" trim levels:\nIn 1989, Mazda offered a special four-wheel steering (commonly abbreviated 4WS) option on MX-6 GTs destined for the U.S. This system consisted of an electronically controlled rear steering rack that turned the rear wheels opposite to the fronts at low speeds to improve cornering, and turned the rear wheels with the fronts at high speeds to improve highway lane change maneuvering. This option was available through all years for GT models in other markets.\nEuropean specification vehicles shipped as the 626 Coup\u00e9 and commonly received either the 1.8\u00a0L SOHC F8 or 2.0\u00a0L SOHC FE engine in \"GLX\" models, or the 2.0\u00a0L FE-DOHC engine in their \"GT\" models. 4WS was a common option for European 626 Coup\u00e9s. Australian vehicles were almost always equipped with the 2.2\u00a0L turbocharged F2T engine as the US models, as well as 4WS. They also carried the MX-6 name of the American models.\nJapanese specification vehicles were shipped as the Capella C2 and were available in several trims, most notably \"GT-R\" (FE-DOHC and 4WS), \"GT-X\" (FE-DOHC and AAS), or \"GT-S\" (F8 and 4WS or AAS). In other parts of East Asia, the MX-6 name was also used.\nNew Zealand received vehicles in either European or Australian specification, selectable on order. As such, New Zealand-market GTs can have either the F2T 2.2\u00a0L turbocharged engine or the FE-DOHC 2.0\u00a0L DOHC, with optional 4WS.\nSecond generation (GE; 1991\u20131997).\nMazda launched the second generation MX-6 using the GE platform, shared by the 626 and Ford rebadged cars, the Ford Probe and the Ford Telstar.\nIt was released in three distinct variants worldwide, known as A-spec, E-spec, and J-spec, which relates to their destined markets \u2013 U.S., Europe, and Japan, respectively.\nA-spec.\nThe A-spec variant for the North American market was manufactured alongside the Ford Probe and Mazda 626 from 1992 as a 1993 model by AutoAlliance International in Flat Rock, Michigan. Three trim levels were available on the A-spec models:\nIn 1995, the second generation MX-6 was refreshed with different five-spoke alloy wheels, and emissions changes. Another major change after 1995 was the addition of OBD-II to the car. With this addition, the was decreased to for every year thereafter. Known as the \"GE2\", this model ran until 1997. Unlike the first generation, the second-generation MX-6 only had one model with a different moniker \u2013 the Canadian MX-6 Myst\u00e8re.\nE-spec.\nBuilt from 1991 in Japan, for Australia, New Zealand, and Europe, compared to the A-spec, the E-spec has different headlights (a two-piece projector setup giving far greater lighting) and taillights, different front and rear bumpers, fog lights, wing-mirrors (power and heated), steering wheel, interior trim, and alloys as standard. The side indicator lights were mounted behind the front wheels, and no corner bumper lights were used. It also came with optional air conditioning and leather interior (standard from '96), and the MX-6's main act \u2013 the 4WS system (not available in the UK). The engine was the same as the U.S. version (although not limited by lower-octane fuels) \u2013 the KL-DE 2.5 DOHC V6 engine, making and with the higher octane fuels used in Europe as standard, slightly lower mileage but with greater performance.\nIn Australia, the MX-6 was released in November 1991. Only one trim was available. Equipped with the KL-DE 2.5 DOHC V6 engine, sunroof, 4WS, etc., with the only remaining options being leather and electric seats. September 1994 was the release of the GE2 update model. Like Mazda Australia did with the GD2, now two choices were available \u2013 the 4WS, all-options MX-6, or the 2WS version. They both had new wheels, interior trim, and steering wheel, but only the 4WS version got the sunroof, CD player, leather (which actually only became standard in late '96), and the digital climate control. The MX-6 lasted until 1997, with the last few rolling out of dealers in 1998. The last one rolled off the assembly line on June 20, 1997.\nJ-spec.\nThis version was also released in 1991, and is very similar to the E-spec (as they are built in the same place), but with minor changes. The version sold in Japan was exclusive to Japanese Mazda dealerships, and was not badge engineered and sold at other Mazda Japanese dealerships, unlike the MX-3, the MX-5, and the RX-7 coupes. One-piece headlights were fitted, with indicators incorporated in the fog light housing, as well as a different rear bumper with smaller registration plate cutout, similar to the A-spec. Almost everything was an option, but the 4WS was available, as well as the digital climate control, electric folding mirrors, larger centre console, and of course, the Mazdaspeed body add-ons \u2013 a subtle lip kit with Supra-style high-rise rear spoiler.\nEngine choice was the KL-ZE 2.5 DOHC V6 making , a high-compression version of the KL-DE, or the KF-ZE 2.0 DOHC V6 making ; all of the K-series engines in the MX-6 were based on the same engine block and included those found in the Ford Probe, Xedos 6, and MX-3 V6 models. The KLZE had about 40 more horsepower than the KLDE versions for a few reasons. Although the displacement was the same, the KLZE had more durations on the cams, higher compression due to a different shape of pistons, and the intake manifold was different on the ZE. The KL-ZE intake manifold runners were shorter and wider than the KL-DE manifold. Also, the heads on the KL-ZE were ported and shaped differently. Not only was the ZE higher in compression, but it was also a higher-revving engine. The only flaws in the KL-ZE design were the weaker valve springs on the intake valves. This is usually corrected by using the KL-DE springs, keepers, and retainers which are stronger.\nFour-wheel steering was used from 1987 to 1998 on both MX-6 GT and GE models. Four-wheel steering (4WS) was available on both the first-generation and second-generation MX-6 models, although the North American market only received it for the 1989 GT model. South African MX-6s never received 4WS.\nAccording to Mazda, the system provided:\nThe system electronically controlled a rear rack that was behind the rear wheels. At low speeds (up to 35\u00a0km/h), the rear wheels move in the opposite direction from the front wheels, aiding parking and U-turns by lowering the turning circle. Above these speeds, the rear wheels move in the same direction as the front, meaning control during high-speed maneuvers such as lane changes or cornering was improved. Either way, the turning angle of the rear wheels was slight at just 5\u00b0, a measurement Mazda determined to be optimally effective and natural to human sensitivity.\nFuture.\nOn 16 October 2018, Mazda filed a trademark application with the Japanese Patent Office for the Mazda MX-6 nameplate which can be used for \"automobiles and parts and accessories thereof,\" hinting that the manufacturer may release a new generation MX-6 in the near future."}
{"id": "732489", "revid": "3095001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732489", "title": "Trade Wars", "text": "Trade Wars is a series of video games dating back to 1984. The video games are inspired by \"Hunt the Wumpus\", the board game \"Risk\", and the original space trader game \"Star Trader\".\nHistory.\nThe first game with the title, \"Trade Wars\", by Chris Sherrick, was developed in BASIC for the TRS-80 Model II, and soon ported, by Sherrick, to the IBM PC for the Nochange BBS system in 1984. Sherrick conceived his game as a cross between Dave Kaufman's BASIC program \"Star Trader\" (1974), the board game \"Risk\", and Gregory Yob's \"Hunt the Wumpus\" (1972).\nBecause Sherrick released his earliest versions with a free license, many variations of the game appeared over the next few years, including \"TWV - Galactic Armageddon\", \"Yankee Trader\", and \"TW2\" (a development of the original by John Morris who took over from Chris Sherrick).\nIn September 1986, James T. Gunderson, a sysop known by the handle \"Lord Darkseid\", ported TradeWars to Turbo Pascal 3 for use on WWIV BBSes. Like most games for WWIV at this time, Gunderson's TradeWars implementation was written as a chain or sub-program. This enabled sysops to install the game without recompiling WWIV, but it required Gunderson to distribute the game as source code, rather than as compiled code. He called his version \"TW2 for WWIV\", and it shared no source code with the Sherrick version, which had been written in Basic.\nA succession of sysops and users modified Gunderson's version, making bug fixes, adding new features, and incorporating thematic elements from disparate sources like \"Star Trek\" and \"Superman\".\nWWIV sysop Gary Martin also obtained this the source code, which he later described as a \"hot mess\" that \"crashed all the time.\" In an effort to stabilize the game, he overhauled the core source code, and released his new version as \"Trade Wars 2001\" in late 1986. Only 14 sysops paid to register \"TW2001\". But Martin's next effort, the \"TradeWars 2002\" series, would become arguably the most popular variant of TradeWars.\nIn 1988, the author of WWIV, Wayne Bell, ported his BBS software in Turbo C. This major change meant older chain programs would no longer work, so beginning in March 1989, Martin embarked on a total rewrite of \"TW2001\". He added numerous new features, such as the StarDock, where players could interact with each other, buy new ships, and watch \"movies\" (ANSI art animations). A fan of at this time, Martin decided to give his game a more consistent Star Trek theme, and established the Ferrengi as the game's main antagonists. \"TradeWars 2002\" v1.00 was released in June 1991. No longer just a WWIV chain, \"TW2002\" was a standalone program that could run with almost any BBS software.\n\"TW2002\" v1, v2, and v3 were BBS mainstays throughout the 1990s. In 1998, Gary Martin sold the \"Trade Wars\" license to John Pritchett, who had written \"Tradewars 2002\" v3 and its gold expansion. John and his company, EIS, developed a stand-alone game server, \"TradeWars Game Server\", which has allowed \"Trade Wars\" to survive beyond the BBS era. Martin and Pritchett together have sold more than 28,000 \"TW2002\" registrations between 1990 and 2025.\nGameplay.\nThough specifics vary between versions, in general the player is a trader in a galaxy with a fixed set of other players (either human or computer). The players seek to gain control of resources: usually fuel ore, food, and equipment, and travel through sectors of the galaxy trading them for money or undervalued resources. Players use their wealth to upgrade their spaceship with better weapons and defenses, and fight for control of planets and star bases.\nSince the basics of the game structure are numerical, these games are not reliant on high resolution graphics or rapid processing, which makes them ideally suited to low-resource computing platforms.\nToday, classic \"Trade Wars\" is primarily hosted by Windows NT/2000/XP computers running the Trade Wars Game Server (TWGS), which accepts incoming telnet connections and launches the Trade Wars ANSI game. \"Trade Wars\" is also run by many of the surviving BBSs, and variations have been ported to the web, cell phones, and the Palm OS.\nReception.\n\"Computer Gaming World\" in 1993 rated \"Trade Wars\" two points out of three, stating that for many players \"there is no \nother on-liner than \"Trade Wars\" ... This game will be around for a while, in one form or another\".\nThe editors of \"netgames\" called \"TW2002\" \"perhaps the granddaddy of all BBS games\" in 1994, the same year Pritchett has said was the peak of the game's popularity, with an estimated 70,000 active TradeWars players.\nLegacy.\n\"Trade Wars 2002\" was named the 10th best PC game of all time by \"PC World Magazine\" in 2009.\n\"Trade Wars\" is cited as an influence by game developers including Paul Sage, lead designer of \"Ultima Online\", Josh Johnston, lead programmer of \"\", Eric Wang, producer of \"Earth &amp; Beyond\", and Pete Mackay, a designer of \"Star Citizen\".\nReviewers have compared many games to TradeWars, including \"EVE Online\", \"Jumpgate\", and \"Spore\".\nA major online game based on \"Trade Wars 2002\" was under development in the early 2000s under the name \"TW: Dark Millennium\", later renamed \"Exarch\". When the developer, Realm Interactive, was acquired by their publisher, NCsoft Austin (Richard Garriott/Destination Games), the development of \"Exarch\" was discontinued. What started as \"TW: DM\" was eventually released by NCsoft as \"Dungeon Runners\"."}
{"id": "732491", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732491", "title": "List of Universities in Lithuania", "text": ""}
{"id": "732493", "revid": "49830483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732493", "title": "Visual short-term memory", "text": "In the study of vision, visual short-term memory (VSTM) is one of three broad memory systems including iconic memory and long-term memory. VSTM is a type of short-term memory, but one limited to information within the visual domain.\nThe term VSTM refers in a theory-neutral manner to the non-permanent storage of visual information over an extended period of time. The visuospatial sketchpad is a VSTM subcomponent within the theoretical model of working memory proposed by Alan Baddeley; in which it is argued that a working memory aids in mental tasks like planning and comparison. Whereas iconic memories are fragile, decay rapidly, and are unable to be actively maintained, visual short-term memories are robust to subsequent stimuli and last over many seconds. VSTM is distinguished from long-term memory, on the other hand, primarily by its very limited capacity.\nOverview.\nThe introduction of stimuli which were hard to verbalize, and unlikely to be held in long-term memory, revolutionized the study of VSTM in the early 1970s. The basic experimental technique used required observers to indicate whether two matrices, or figures, separated by a short temporal interval, were the same. The finding that observers were able to report that a change had occurred, at levels significantly above chance, indicated that they were able to encode aspect of the first stimulus in a purely visual store, at least for the period until the presentation of the second stimulus. However, as the stimuli used were complex, and the nature of the change relatively uncontrolled, these experiments left open various questions, such as:\nSet-size effects.\nMuch effort has been dedicated to investigating the capacity limits of VSTM. In a typical change-detection task, observers are presented with two arrays, composed of a number of stimuli. The two arrays are separated by a short temporal interval, and the task of observers is to decide if the first and second arrays are identical, or whether one item differs across the two displays. Performance is critically dependent on the number of items in the array. While performance is generally almost perfect for arrays of one or two items, correct responses invariably decline in a monotonic fashion as more items are added. Different theoretical models have been put forward to explain limits on VSTM storage, and distinguishing between them remains an active area of research.\nModels of capacity limits.\nSlot models.\nA prominent class of model proposes that observers are limited by the total number of items which can be encoded, either because the capacity of VSTM itself is limited. This type of model has obvious similarities to urn models used in probability theory. In essence, an urn model assumes that VSTM is restricted in storage capacity to only a few items, \"k\" (often estimated to lie in the range of three-to-five in adults, though fewer in children). The probability that a suprathreshold change will be detected is simply the probability that the change element is encoded in VSTM (i.e., \"k\"/\"N\"). This capacity limit has been linked to the posterior parietal cortex, the activity of which initially increases with the number of stimuli in the arrays, but saturates at higher set-sizes. Although urn models are used commonly to describe performance limitations in VSTM, it is only recently that the actual structure of items stored has been considered. Luck and colleagues have reported a series of experiments designed specifically to elucidate the structure of information held in VSTM. This work provides evidence that items stored in VSTM are coherent objects, and not the more elementary features of which those objects are composed.\nNoise models.\nAn alternative framework has more been put forward by Wilken and Ma who suggest that apparent capacity limitations in VSTM are caused by a monotonic decline in the quality of the internal representations stored (i.e., monotonic increase in noise) as a function of set-size. In this conception capacity limitations in memory are not caused by a limit on the number of things that can be encoded, but by a decline in the quality of the representation of each thing as more things are added to memory. In their 2004 experiments, they varied color, spatial frequency, and orientation of objects stored in VSTM using a signal detection theory approach. The participants were asked to report differences between the visual stimuli presented to them in consecutive order. The investigators found that different stimuli were encoded independently and in parallel, and that the major factor limiting report performance was neuronal noise (which is a function of visual set-size).\nUnder this framework, the key limiting factor on working memory performance is the precision with which visual information can be stored, not the number of items that can be remembered. Further evidence for this theory was obtained by Bays and Husain using a discrimination task. They showed that, unlike a \"slot\" model of VSTM, a signal-detection model could account both for discrimination performance in their study and previous results from change detection tasks. These authors proposed that VSTM is a flexible resource, shared out between elements of a visual scene\u2014items that receive more resource are stored with greater precision. In support of this, they showed that increasing the salience of one item in a memory array led to that item being recalled with increased resolution, but at the cost of reducing resolution of storage for the other items in the display.\nPsychophysical models.\nPsychophysical experiments suggest that information is encoded in VSTM across multiple parallel channels, each channel associated with a particular perceptual attribute. Within this framework, a decrease in an observer's ability to detect a change with increasing set-size can be attributed to two different processes: \nHowever, the Greenlee-Thomas model suffers from two failings as a model for the effects of set-size in VSTM. First, it has only been empirically tested with displays composed of one or two elements. It has been shown repeatedly in various experimental paradigms that set-size effects differ for displays composed of a relatively small number of elements (i.e., 4 items or less), and those associated with larger displays (i.e., more than 4 items). The Greenlee-Thomas model offers no explanation for why this might be so. Second, while Magnussen, Greenlee, and Thomas are able to use this model to predict that greater interference will be found when dual decisions are made within the same perceptual dimension, rather than across different perceptual dimensions, this prediction lacks quantitative rigor, and is unable to accurately anticipate the size of the threshold increase, or give a detailed explanation of its underlying causes.\nIn addition to the Greenlee-Thomas model, there are two other prominent approaches for describing set-size effects in VSTM. These two approaches can be referred to as sample size models, and urn models. They differ from the Greenlee-Thomas model by: \nIntermediate visual store.\nThere is some evidence of an intermediate visual store with characteristics of both iconic memory and VSTM. This intermediate store is proposed to have high capacity (up to 15 items) and prolonged memory trace duration (up to 4 seconds). It coexists with VSTM but unlike it visual stimuli can overwrite the contents of its visual store. Further studies suggests an involvement of visual area V4 in the retention of information about the color of the stimulus in visual working memory, and the role of the VO1 area for retaining information about its shape. It has been shown that in the VO2 region all characteristics of the stimulus retained in memory are combined into a holistic image.\nThe function of visual short-term memory representations.\nVSTM is thought to be the visual component of the working memory system, and as such it is used as a buffer for temporary information storage during the process of naturally occurring tasks. But what naturally occurring tasks actually require VSTM? Most work on this issue has focused on the role of VSTM in bridging the sensory gaps caused by saccadic eye movements. These sudden shift of gaze typically occur 2\u20134 times per second, and vision is briefly suppressed while the eyes are moving. Thus, the visual input consists of a series of spatially shifted snapshots of the overall scene, separated by brief gaps. Over time, a rich and detailed long-term memory representation is constructed from these brief glimpses of the input, and VSTM is thought to bridge the gaps between these glimpses and to allow the relevant portions of one glimpse to be aligned with the relevant portions of the next glimpse. Both spatial and object VSTM systems may play important roles in the integration of information across eye movements. Eye movements are also affected by VSTM representations. The constructed representations held in VSTM can affect eye movements even when the task does not explicitly require eye movements: the direction of small microsaccades point towards the location of objects in VSTM."}
{"id": "732494", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732494", "title": "Sigismund II Augustus of Poland", "text": ""}
{"id": "732499", "revid": "42907343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732499", "title": "Wakefield (band)", "text": "Wakefield was an American pop-punk band from Maryland, formed in 2000. The band consisted of singer and guitarist Ryan Escolopio, his brother and drummer Aaron Escolopio, their cousin and bassist Mike Schoolden, and guitarist and main writer J.D. Tennyson.\nHistory.\nEarly years.\nRyan Escolopio, J.D. Tennyson, and Mike Schoolden formed the band with their friend Mark Martinez in 2000. In their early days, the band played clubs such as Piezano's Pizza, Wood's Holy Grounds in Severna Park, Maryland, and My Brother's Place in Waldorf, Maryland. In 2001 they supported Good Charlotte at a show sponsored by 99.1 WHFS. It took place at Arundel High School as a reward for a student food drive (headed by the Arundel Key Club). Aaron Escolopio joined after leaving Good Charlotte. Wakefield played their first show with Aaron at CBGB in New York on June 6, 2001.\nDuring their early years, Wakefield was able to tour with Catch 22, the Mighty Mighty Bosstones, Allister, Riddlin Kids, and others.\n\"American Made\" (2003).\nWakefield announced on August 12, 2001, that they'd been signed to a record deal with Lava Records, a subsidiary of Atlantic Records, headed by Jason Flom. The band recorded a full album of their current songs at the A&amp;M studios in California, but Wakefield was dropped before the album was released. The band was then signed by Arista Records, where they would release their debut album, \"American Made\" on May 6, 2003. \"American Made\" featured a combination of several new songs and older fan-favorite songs. In support of the album, Wakefield spent many months on the road, touring with bands including the All-American Rejects, Home Grown, Riddlin' Kids, and Reel Big Fish.\nThe first single off American Made was \"Say You Will\", a pop punk song that made it into the rotation of many rock music and Top 40 radio stations. The band also recorded a music video for the song, which received airplay mostly on MTV2 and Fuse. In June 2003, the video was voted as the Nickelodeon Video Pick of the Week and in Canada was featured on 'Oven Fresh'. They also produced a single for the video game Tak and the Power of Juju in October of 2003.\n\"Which Side Are You On?\" (2005).\nWakefield made several appearances in pop culture following the success of \"American Made\". Their cover of the Iggy Pop song \"Real Wild Child\" appeared on the soundtrack for \"Eurotrip\", titled \"Wild One\". They also did a music video to \"Wild One\" for the extras on \"Tak and the Power of Juju\".\nThe band also made an uncredited appearance in the Olsen twins movie \"New York Minute\". Ryan, JD, and Mike appeared as the studio band for drummer Roxy (Mary-Kate Olsen), and Aaron appeared as the band's producer. The band recorded a cover of the David Bowie song \"Suffragette City\" for the \"New York Minute\" soundtrack.\nWakefield released their second and what would be their final studio album, titled \"Which Side Are You On?\" through Jive Records on January 6, 2005. The first single from the album was \"C'mon Baby\". Also appearing on the album is the song \"After School Special\" which was co-written with and produced by Butch Walker. The album had a number of producers and co-writers - Scott Cutler and John Fields to name a few. \"Which Side Are You On?\" also featured Ryan and JD's producing debut for \"Clean 1145\".\n(2008).\nWakefield are believed to have broken up; their Facebook page is no longer active.\n(2023).\nWakefield announced 20th anniversary reunion show for New Years Eve 2023 at The Rex in Leonardtown, Maryland."}
{"id": "732501", "revid": "1215485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732501", "title": "Babinski sign", "text": ""}
{"id": "732503", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732503", "title": "List of Roman Republican consuls", "text": ""}
{"id": "732504", "revid": "45417033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732504", "title": "Murder of Betty Van Patter", "text": "Betty Louise Van Patter (n\u00e9e Floyd; October 12, 1929 \u2013 ) was a bookkeeper for the Black Panther Party, although she herself was white. Van Patter was murdered, a crime which remains unsolved.\nBiography.\nVan Patter worked as a bookkeeper for \"Ramparts\" magazine, and was introduced in 1974 to Panther leader Elaine Brown by the magazine's co-editor, David Horowitz, who had created the Educational Opportunities Commission for the Panthers. He suggested Van Patter as bookkeeper for the commission, and Brown hired her in June 1974. Van Patter went missing on December 13, 1974. On January 20 of the following year, her severely beaten corpse was found floating in San Francisco Bay.\nVan Patter discovered major discrepancies in how the party managed its finances and warned that they were facing major tax problems. Elaine Brown wrote in her 1993 memoir, \"A Taste of Power,\" that she fired Van Patter after telling her to \"cease her interrogations\" and Van Patter refused. \u201cOur accountants and tax lawyers could hold off the IRS,\u201d Brown wrote. \u201cIt was for the party to keep our affairs in order. Betty Van Patter was showing herself useless in that endeavor, her nose in our business more than our books.\u201d \nThere was insufficient evidence for police to charge anyone with Van Patter's death, but the Black Panther Party was \"almost universally believed to be responsible,\" wrote journalist Frank Browning in 1987. Ken Kelley, a former associate of Huey P. Newton, claimed in 1989 that Newton told him that he had ordered Van Patter's murder, and that she had been tortured and raped before being killed. Christopher Hitchens wrote in the \"Los Angeles Times\" in 2003 that: \"There is no doubt now, and there was precious little then, of the Panther leadership's complicity in this revolting crime.\""}
{"id": "732506", "revid": "13913591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732506", "title": "Pat Roach", "text": "Francis Patrick Roach (19 May 1937 \u2013 17 July 2004) was an English professional wrestler, martial artist and actor. During an acting career between the 1970s and the 1990s, he appeared in multiple films, usually as a henchman. He appeared in the \"Indiana Jones\" film series, as the West Country bricklayer Brian \"Bomber\" Busbridge in the 1980s British television series \"Auf Wiedersehen, Pet\", and in the role of Petty Officer Edgar Evans in the television production \"The Last Place on Earth\".\nEarly life.\nRoach was born and brought up in Birmingham, West Midlands, the son of Francis \"Frank\" Roach (born 1905). He was National Judo Champion in 1960, and Midland Area Black Belt Champion in 1962.\nSports career.\nRoach boxed as an amateur before becoming professional as a protege of Jack Solomons.\nHe began his professional wrestling career under the name of \"Judo\" Pat Roach. After his acting career had begun, he continued to wrestle under the name of \"Bomber\" Pat Roach, having previously been billed as \"Big\" Pat Roach before receiving affectionate cheering from the audience. He was trained by Alf Kent and his first official wrestling match was against George Selko in 1960. Roach held both the British and European heavyweight championships at one time.\nActing career.\nRoach made his acting debut as the red-bearded bouncer in the Korova Milkbar in Stanley Kubrick's \"A Clockwork Orange\". He worked on another Kubrick film, \"Barry Lyndon\", where he played a hand-to-hand brawler named Toole who engages Ryan O'Neal in a fistfight. Roach went on to play a number of strong-man supporting character roles in films in the 1970s, 80s, and 90s, including the nonspeaking role of Hephaestus in \"Clash of the Titans\".\nPat cameoed as a SPECTRE assassin in the 'unofficial' James Bond film \"Never Say Never Again\", and as bandit-warlord Lord Brytag in the sword-and-sorcery film \"Red Sonja\". He appeared as the skull-helmeted General Kael in the film \"Willow\"; the evil wizard Thoth-Amon in \"Conan the Destroyer\" and as the Celtic chieftain in \"\".\nIn 1985, he played Petty Officer Edgar Evans in the Central TV serial \"The Last Place on Earth\" about Captain Scott's expedition to the South Pole. Roach was turned down as Darth Vader in \"Star Wars\"; however, its director, George Lucas, subsequently cast him as several burly villains in the \"Indiana Jones\" film series in the 1980s. In \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\" he played two roles, the first being a giant Sherpa who fights Jones in the bar in Nepal, the second being a German Luftwaffe mechanic who fistfights with Jones before being killed by an aircraft's propeller blades on the airstrip in Egypt. In the next film, \"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\", Roach played the Thuggee guard overseer in a mine who fights with Jones before being killed in a rock crusher. His final appearance in the series was as a Gestapo officer in \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\", where he appears only briefly due to the character's fight with Jones having been director Steven Spielberg considered the scene \"too long\", and served as a subplot.\nOn television Roach played the down-to-earth and easy going Brian \"Bomber\" Busbridge in the long running comedy-drama \"Auf Wiedersehen, Pet\". He appeared in all four series, but was absent from the final two-part Christmas special.\nHe was a guest on Central TV's Bullseye game show in 1984.\nHe appeared in season 11 episode 39 (\"Swan Song\") of The Bill, playing the character Reg Warren.\nPersonal life.\nRoach married Doreen Harris in 1957. They had a son and a daughter.\nIn the 1990s, Roach owned and co-managed a scrapyard in Saltley, Birmingham. He also ran a gym on Gravelly Hill North, Erdington, in North-East Birmingham.\nRoach died on 17 July 2004 of esophageal cancer. His body was buried in extension section B at Bromsgrove Cemetery, Worcestershire."}
{"id": "732510", "revid": "37371155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732510", "title": "National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame", "text": "The National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame is a 501 (c)(3) nonprofit institution honoring exceptional U.S. athletes of Italian descent. In 1977 George Randazzo created the Italian American Boxing Hall of Fame. This was as a means for raising money for local Catholic youth programs. After a successful year and dinner honoring 23 former Italian American boxing champions, Randazzo created the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame. The original location was in Elmwood Park, Illinois. The first induction ceremony honored Lou Ambers, Eddie Arcaro, Charley Trippi, Gino Marchetti, Dom DiMaggio, Joe DiMaggio, and Vince Lombardi. Since its founding in 1978, more than 230 Italian Americans have been inducted into this hall of fame.\nThe Hall of Fame and museum was located in a 44,000-square-foot (4,000 m\u00b2) building on Taylor Street in the heart of Chicago's \"Little Italy\" neighborhood from 2000 until 2019. The Hall of Fame is now based on the city's north side.\nHistory.\nIn 1977, George Randazzo founded the Italian American Boxing Hall of Fame as a way to raise money for a struggling local Catholic youth program. Randazzo collected boxing photos and memorabilia, a hobby that inspired him to organize a fundraising dinner that brought together a list of boxing greats and celebrities. The dinner honored twenty-three former Italian American boxing world champions, including Rocky Graziano, Jake LaMotta, Sammy Angott, Willie Pep, and posthumously Rocky Marciano, Primo Carnera and Tony Canzoneri.\nThe results were so overwhelming that a friend and local businessman, Don Ponte, encouraged Randazzo to start a Hall of Fame to honor all Italian American athletes. One year later, the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame was founded as a non-profit, educational institution. The first induction ceremony and banquet was a star-studded event, as the Hall of Fame honored Lou Ambers, Eddie Arcaro, Charlie Trippi, Gino Marchetti, Dom DiMaggio and \u201cThe Yankee Clipper,\u201d Joe DiMaggio. Mrs. Vince Lombardi also accepted the posthumous induction of her late husband, Coach Vince Lombardi.\nIn the years that followed, celebrities from all walks of life have come to the annual induction ceremonies to pay tribute to outstanding Italian American sports champions and heroes. An uninvited guest took part in the 1980 induction ceremony: President Jimmy Carter offered his congratulations and addressed the crowd. In 1988 the Hall of Fame moved its headquarters from Elmwood Park to Arlington Heights.\nThe NIASHF enjoyed a new beginning in 1998 with the help of Phoenix Suns Chairman/CEO Jerry Colangelo. A 1994 Inductee and Chicago Heights native, Colangelo was asked by Randazzo to serve as Chairman of an ambitious new Hall of Fame building project in the heart of Chicago\u2019s Little Italy. Colangelo accepted, and succeeded in bringing together civic-minded men and women from across the country in support of the project. In 2000 the new facility was dedicated as \u201cThe Jerry Colangelo Center,\u201d a tribute to his efforts and leadership. There are over 230 Inductees enshrined in the NIASHF.\nGrand Piazza.\nThe Grand Piazza was located on the third floor of the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame. This banquet and dining area featured an adjacent outdoor terrace and banquet space with a commercial kitchen, an event space used corporate luncheons, dinner meetings, weddings, or any sit-down reception of up to 300 guests. The Rooftop Terrace was located on the fourth floor of the Hall of Fame, and overlooks the city of Chicago."}
{"id": "732511", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732511", "title": "Harisu", "text": "Lee Kyung-eun (; born February 17, 1975), better known by her stage name Harisu (), is a South Korean pop singer, model, and actress. In 2002, she became the second person in Korea to legally change their gender. Her stage name is an adaptation of the English phrase \"hot issue\".\nShe first gained public attention in 2001, after appearing in a television commercial for DoDo cosmetics. The commercial was a success and marked the launch of her career, which allowed her to branch out into other fields such as music and acting. She has recorded five Korean musical albums, switching genres between techno and R&amp;B, and her overseas releases have featured songs recorded in Mandarin. Her first major acting role was in the 2001 film \"Yellow Hair 2\", and since then her credits have included \"Hi! Honey\", a Taiwanese drama series, and \"Colour Blossoms\", an erotic drama by Hong Kong filmmaker Yonfan. On May 19, 2007, Harisu married Micky Jung, but the couple divorced in 2017.\nEarly life and transition.\nHarisu was born in Seongnam, Korea, and is one of five children. Although assigned male at birth, she knew she was female from an early age, recalling, \"I was always a girl who loved playing with dolls.\" This did not go unnoticed by her family or school friends, who often remarked that she looked and acted like a girl. A failed relationship with a boy during her teenage years convinced Harisu of the need to change her sex, and by the time she graduated from the all-boys Naksaeng High School, she was already undergoing hormone replacement therapy. It was for this reason that she was exempted from the military service usually required of males in the Republic of Korea, being rejected on the grounds of \"mental illness\". By the end of the 1990s, Harisu had undergone several surgeries in Korea and Japan, including breast augmentation, sex reassignment surgery, rhinoplasty, and surgery to increase the size of her hips.\nHarisu lived in Japan for several years, where she studied to be a hair stylist. It was while working as a nightclub singer that she was discovered by a talent agency, and soon after she began her career as a model. After returning to Korea in 2000, she signed with management company TTM Entertainment, and first began using the stage name \"Harisu\", derived from the English phrase \"hot issue\".\nCareer.\nDebut.\nHarisu made her acting debut in 1991\u2014while still living as a boy\u2014as a supporting actor in a high school TV drama series, and this was followed by other minor film and TV roles as an extra during the 1990s.\nHer big break came in early 2001, when she appeared in a TV commercial for DoDo cosmetics. The commercial hinted at the fact she is transgender, zooming in to reveal her Adam's apple (although this was added digitally, since Harisu herself does not have a prominent Adam's apple). DoDo were initially cautious about using the commercial and had been prepared to withdraw it if the response was negative, but the commercial turned out to be a big success and quickly established her as a celebrity. As the Republic of Korea's first transgender entertainer, there was a great deal of media interest in Harisu, and she was routinely described as being \"more beautiful than a woman\". Explaining her reasons for \"coming out\", she said, \"I don't want to face people dishonestly. I won't be able to hide it after all. It's better to make it clear from the start.\" In June 2001, Harisu was the subject of a television documentary produced by KBS, which covered her childhood, family relationships, and debut as an entertainer.\nLater that year she was cast in the film \"Yellow Hair 2\", her first leading role. In addition to contributing songs for the film's soundtrack, Harisu played a transsexual who goes on the run after the apparent death of a convenience store owner. Regarding her decision to appear in the film, she said, \"I wanted to break the stereotype of transsexuals \u2014 the demureness and extreme weakness with which they are often portrayed.\" The film was released on July 21.\nAlso in 2001, Harisu published her autobiography, \"Eve from Adam\", and appeared in a music video for dance group Turbo. In September, she entered the K-pop music scene with her debut album, \"Temptation\", a mix of techno-style pop music and slow ballads, which peaked at number 32 on the MIAK (Music Industry Association of Korea) K-pop albums chart. She released her second album, \"Liar\", in October 2002, describing it as \"a high-energy dance record with a very upbeat rhythm.\" \"Liar\" became her biggest domestic chart success, reaching number 23 in its first month of release.\n2003\u20132005.\nIn October 2003, Harisu made the decision to leave her management company, TTM Entertainment. However, TTM claimed to hold the rights to her stage name, and announced their intentions to use that name to promote other artists. The matter was taken to court, and in early 2004 the ruling went in favour of Harisu, allowing her to keep the name. She subsequently set up her own company, G&amp;F Entertainment, in order to make her own decisions regarding her career. In February she released her third album, \"Foxy Lady\", which marked a change from the sound of her previous albums towards a more hip-hop/R&amp;B style, with Harisu saying \"now I am on my own, and showing my true colors, doing exactly the kind of music that I've always wanted.\" The album, however, failed to make the top 50 in the Korean charts.\nIn 2004, Harisu began to develop her career overseas, expressing frustration at being \"pigeon-holed\" as a transsexual in Korea. She starred in the Taiwanese drama series \"Hi! Honey\" alongside local celebrity Pace Wu, despite not being fluent in Mandarin (her lines were spoken in Korean and later dubbed). She drew attention by promoting sanitary napkins in a series of advertisements for Taiwanese company UFT, for which she was paid an estimated \u20a9100 million per ad. Although she had been initially reluctant to take on the project, observers hailed the casting of a trans woman in such a campaign as a sign of progress. Towards the end of the year Harisu appeared in Yonfan's \"Colour Blossoms\", an erotic drama film from Hong Kong in which she shared a role with veteran Japanese actress Keiko Matsuzaka. Released on October 18, 2004, it was poorly received at the box office and by the media, though it had some success at film festivals, and picked up several awards and nominations.\nHarisu made a return to Korean screens in early 2005, after being cast in the MBC miniseries \"Beating Heart\", her first major role in a Korean drama. She starred in several episodes as a transsexual woman, returning to her family after a lengthy absence in a bid to gain acceptance. Later that year her \"Foxy Lady\" album was released in Taiwan and China with the inclusion of songs re-recorded in Mandarin, and she was even promoted by her Taiwanese record label as the \"Kylie Minogue of the East\". In September 2005, Harisu gained a foothold in Malaysia after signing a three-year memorandum of understanding with Hock Star Entertainment, a deal which included the production of two feature films and secured the Malaysian release of her album.\n2006\u2013present.\nAfter a prolonged absence from the Korean music scene, Harisu returned in January 2006 with her fourth, self-titled album. Although her comeback was originally scheduled for the summer of 2005, this had been prevented by other commitments overseas. The album was preceded by a digital single, \"Winter Story\", and marked a change in her image, with an emphasis on being \"cute\" rather than \"sexy\". \"Harisu\" charted at number 46 in Korea, and as with her previous album it was released in Taiwan and China with extra songs recorded in Mandarin. Her fifth Korean album, \"Summer\", was released just six months later, though it failed to chart in the top 50.\nHer next film\u2014the first as part of the deal with Hock Star Entertainment\u2014was \"Possessed\", a Malaysian horror film released on November 30, 2006, in which she starred alongside Amber Chia. Harisu played Lisu, a murdered pop singer who becomes a vengeful ghost, and also performed the films theme song, though it was necessary for her dialogue to be spoken in Korean and later dubbed. She was praised by director Bjarne Wong for her hard work and professionalism, and has hinted that they may collaborate on another film in the future.\nIn early 2007, Harisu was cast as the lead actress in \"Police Line\", a Korean drama series produced for cable network On-Media. The series, based around a special unit for victims of sexual abuse, starred Harisu as a policewoman who was molested as a child by her stepfather. Filming for \"Police Line\" began in April 2007, and the series was launched in June with Harisu's husband Micky Jung making a cameo appearance. In December 2007, Harisu released a digital mini-album, \"Winter Special\", which featured a duet with her husband on the track \"First Snow\".\nHarisu published a collection of essays in Japan in March 2008, titled \"Haris Beauty\" (sic). The essays formed a comprehensive guide to beauty, diet and fashion, and contained photographs of Harisu taken by Yamagishi Shin, who had traveled to Seoul the previous December for a four-day photo shoot. Harisu also provided narration for the visually impaired for the 2008 film \"If You Were Me: Anima Version 2\", an animated film about human rights.\nAs of 2008, Harisu believed that she still faced discrimination within the entertainment industry, saying on television, \"Many people pretend to smile and welcome me, but after the filming, they'd scold me behind my back\".\nPersonal life.\nHarisu's decision to undergo sex reassignment surgery placed a strain on her relationship with her family, and she noted that when her parents first found out they \"were very upset. They weren't angry, but very sad.\" Her father in particular had great difficulty accepting his child as a daughter, but her family have since accepted this and show great pride in her career.\nHarisu has been given credit for raising social awareness of transgender people in the Republic of Korea, and has said in interviews that she hopes to be a role model for other trans people. In April 2007, she came to the aid of a Chinese trans woman unable to afford surgery, giving her the financial support needed to undergo this costly procedure. Affected by the 2008 suicides of gay actor Kim Ji-hoo and transgender television personality Jang Chae-won, Harisu opened a transgender club \"Mix-Trans\" in Apgujeong-dong, southern Seoul, in June 2009.\nLegal recognition of gender.\nOn November 29, 2002, Harisu filed a petition with the Incheon District Court to have her sex corrected on her family register, and that her birth name be changed to Lee Kyung-eun. The subsequent court ruling went in her favour, and on December 13, 2002, she became the second person in the Republic of Korea to legally change their sex. Speaking of the difficulties she had previously encountered, Harisu has said: \"My most embarrassing moments were when I have had to show my personal identification card in public... I couldn't get a passport, visa or even my own bank accounts because I was legally a man\".\nMarriage.\nSince her debut in 2001, Harisu has consistently expressed a desire to marry and have a family of her own. In 2005, she began dating Micky Jung (real name Jung Yong-jin), a rapper whom she had met online. Jung, who had been a member of dance group EQ during the 1990s, later joined Harisu's management company and worked on her fourth and fifth albums. The couple briefly separated in 2006, but were reunited after Jung saw her dating another man on a TV show. Rumours that the two were to marry began circulating in November 2006, and a date for the wedding was announced in February, following meetings between their respective families. Harisu and Jung starred in a reality television show on cable network Mnet showing their everyday lives and preparations for their wedding, but the couple were subjected to harsh criticism from netizens.\nOn May 19, 2007, Harisu and Jung were married at Central City Millennium Hall in the Seocho District of Seoul. The ceremony was presided over by KBS anchor Shin Young-il, and officiated by Kim Seok-Kwun, a Dong-A University professor who had performed Harisu's sex change surgery in the 1990s. The couple honeymooned on the Thai island of Ko Samui, and began their married life at Harisu's family home in Nonhyun-dong, in the Gangnam District of Seoul. The couple have said that they plan to adopt four children, though the news prompted a mixed public reaction. A poll by Mnet found that 69% of 1,300 respondents were in favour of Harisu's decision to adopt, while in a similar poll by Daum, 58% of 8,094 respondents were against the idea. Harisu and Jung divorced in 2017 after ten years of marriage.\nWelfare and politics.\nIn November 2007, Harisu unveiled plans to build and run an orphanage, stating that it was one of her \"long-cherished dreams\". With the support of her husband and mother-in-law, she purchased a plot of land in Janghowon, Gyeonggi Province, and studied for a community service license. Harisu campaigned for the New Progressive Party in the 2008 Republic of Korea legislative elections, supporting the legalization of marijuana.\nDiscography.\nAs of 2007, Harisu has released five Korean language studio albums, though her song lyrics typically include English as well. While her early work has been described as \"techno-flavored K-pop\", her more recent albums have leaned towards the R&amp;B, hip-hop, and disco genres. She has named Madonna and Janet Jackson as her musical influences; of her contemporaries, she holds Chae Rina in high esteem.\nCompilation albums.\nThe Queen/11th Anniversary(2012)\nSingle albums.\nRe:Su(2018)"}
{"id": "732515", "revid": "38455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732515", "title": "Areolar gland", "text": "Areolar glands, also known as glandulae areolares, Montgomery glands, and tubercula areolae, are 10\u201315 elevations found on the areola. They are usually arranged in a circle around the nipple, and can be particularly visible when the nipple is erect. Their role is to promote adequate breastfeeding of the infant.\nThey are sebaceous glands, which secrete sebum oil, a free fatty acid, onto the skin that lubricates the nipple when breastfeeding, protects the skin, and provides some air tightness between the infant's mouth and the nipple. They also emit odor compounds into the air that attract babies.\nIn addition, a study of 121 white mothers found that higher numbers of areolar glands on the breasts (commonly known as AG number) was correlated with infants gaining weight faster and lactation beginning faster.\nA meta-analysis shows that odor compounds emitted from lactating breasts reduced arousal states in active newborns, increases arousal states in sleepy newborns, and causes babies to turn their heads towards the breast, though the source of these effects were not strongly identified. A targeted study of 16 infants based on these observations has shown that these effects can be induced experimentally through a researcher directing a baby with areolar gland scent on a stick. Additionally, areolar gland scents cause these effects more strongly than milk or sebum odors.\nStructure.\nAreolar glands are round bumps found in the areola, and sometimes on the nipple.\nVariation.\nThe tubercles become more pronounced when the nipple is erect, and during pregnancy. The number of glands can vary greatly, usually averaging from 4 to 28 per breast.\nFunction.\nAreolar glands make oily secretions (lipoid fluid) that keep the areola and the nipple lubricated and protected.\nVolatile compounds in these secretions may also serve as an olfactory stimulus for newborn appetite.\nAreolar glands, especially during pregnancy and lactation, emit odors that reliably cause newborn babies to face the breast and locate the nipple. Cleaning the breast or otherwise masking these scents makes it harder for newborns to find the nipple, and to get an important first drink of immunoprotective colostrum.\nThey can become exposed and raised when the nipple is stimulated. The skin over the surface opening is lubricated and tends to be smoother than the rest of the areola.\nClinical significance.\nAreolar glands may secrete excessive amounts of oil. This is a neutral condition that rarely represents any underlying problem, unlike the spontaneous flow of milk from the breast.\nHistory.\nAreolar glands may also be called glands of Montgomery, or Montgomery tubercles. They are named after Dr. William Fetherstone Montgomery (1797\u20131859), an Irish obstetrician who first described them in 1837."}
{"id": "732520", "revid": "38056903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732520", "title": "Saint Louis School", "text": "Saint Louis School is a historic Catholic college preparatory school for boys located in the neighborhood of St. Louis Heights in Honolulu, Hawaii. It was founded in 1846 to serve Catholics in the former Kingdom of Hawaii. Located within the Diocese of Honolulu, it is affiliated with the Society of Mary, a religious order of brothers and priests called the Marianists who also administer Chaminade University of Honolulu, formerly the college section of Saint Louis School. It is located near Sacred Hearts Academy, a girls' school founded by the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, and both schools hold joint programs such as cultural festivals and the JROTC.\nHistory.\nEstablishment.\nSaint Louis School was originally located in the \u0100huimanu area of windward Oahu as the College of \u0100huimanu, founded in 1846 by the Fathers of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary. In 1881, the school was relocated to Beretania Street, in downtown Honolulu, adjacent to Washington Place, the home of Liliuokalani, who was Queen of Hawaii from 1891 to 1893. When the school moved to downtown Honolulu, it was called the College of Saint Louis, named after the patron saint of Louis Maigret, Bishop of Honolulu. In 1883, the school moved again for a third time to Kamakela (known today as College Walk), on the bank of the Nu\u02bbuanu Stream, near Chinatown, Honolulu. This remained the campus until the 1920s.\nThe high school and college sections eventually split up and the emblem for Saint Louis College can be seen above the door of the administration building of Chaminade University on the Chaminade/Saint Louis campus. Marianists assumed control of the school and determined a need to expand facilities to serve the burgeoning Hawaiian Catholic population, who included many Filipino immigrants. Because of the Marianist core mission to educate regardless of ethnic, religious, or fiscal means, the Order purchased land in Kalaep\u014dhaku, a hillside division of Honolulu's Kaimuki community, to enable the school to better serve Hawaii. Kalaep\u014dhaku opened in September 1928 as Saint Louis School.\nDevelopments.\nIn the years following World War II, Saint Louis School re-evaluated its mission. Beginning in 1949, it dropped the lower grade levels one at a time, concentrating on a curriculum as a high school serving grades 9 through 12.\nIn 1980, it reinstated grades 7 and 8. In 1990, grade 6 was reinstated. The school created a middle school consisting of grades 6 through 8, operating independently within Saint Louis School. Grade 5 was reinstated and added to the middle school. In 2015 Saint Louis School announced its plans to expand again to become a K-12 school for the 2016\u201317 school year. The school currently provides for students from grades K-12.\nAcademics.\nSaint Louis School is fully accredited by the Western Catholic Education Association (WCEA) and the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC). It offers three distinct curricula.\nAthletics.\nSaint Louis School plays competitively in the Interscholastic League of Honolulu (ILH) and the Hawai'i High School Athletic Association (HHSAA). Sometimes it fields members in the Pac-5, an alliance of Honolulu-area private academies.\nAs the state has no professional sports teams, high school teams in Hawaii are extremely popular with the public. Several generations of Hawaiian residents have become avid fans of Saint Louis School athletics, especially its football team. The \"Honolulu Advertiser\" and \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" newspapers have nicknamed Saint Louis School's team as \"Hawaii's Team;\" it has played in invitational tournaments throughout the world.\nSaint Louis School also fields teams in bowling, cross country, kayaking, and water polo in the fall. In winter it competes in canoe paddling, basketball, soccer, swimming and diving, riflery, and wrestling. In spring it competes in baseball, golf, judo, track, lacrosse, and volleyball.\nSaint Louis has had a strong history in Football winning a total of fourteen Oahu State Prep Bowls, in 1983 and consecutively from 1986 to 1998. Continuing from 1998 Saint Louis went on to win the HHSAA Football Championship in 1999, 2002, 2010, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and most recently in 2024.\nSaint Louis also won Hawaii state basketball championships in 1968 and 1986 with Kaipo Johnston Spencer first as a player in \u201868 then later as coach of the \u201886 team. In recent years, the Saint Louis basketball team has obtained significant success. In 2022, 2023, and 2024, the Crusaders managed to win a three-peat state championship.\nNotable alumni.\nListed alphabetically by last name (year of graduation):\nGovernment\nAthletics (American football)\nAthletics (baseball)\nAthletics (Other)\nOther"}
{"id": "732524", "revid": "33709468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732524", "title": "Hermann Esser", "text": "Hermann Esser (29 July 1900 \u2013 7 February 1981) was an early member of the Nazi Party (NSDAP). A journalist, Esser was the editor of the Nazi paper, \"V\u00f6lkischer Beobachter\", a propaganda leader, and a vice president of the Reichstag. In the early days of the party, he was a \"de facto\" deputy of Adolf Hitler. As one of Hitler's earliest followers and friends, he held influential positions in the party during the Weimar Republic, but increasingly lost influence during the Nazi era.\nEarly life.\nEsser was born in R\u00f6hrmoos, Kingdom of Bavaria. The son of a civil servant, he was educated in the high school at Kempten. As a teenager, he volunteered for service in World War I and fought on the front lines in the Royal Bavarian 19th Foot Artillery Regiment. After demobilization, he joined the Swabian \"Freikorps\", and in May 1919 took part in the suppression of the Munich Soviet Republic. Esser early on became a socialist, after he joined a left-wing provincial newspaper to train as a journalist. He had previously formed his own Social Democrat party, but as it was small and one of numerous post-Armistice parties in Germany and Austria, it quickly failed.\nNazi career.\nHaving met Anton Drexler through his work, he met with the group of men that formed the German Workers' Party (DAP): Drexler, Gottfried Feder and Dietrich Eckart, joining their party in January 1920. In 1920 he met Hitler in the regional press office of the \"Reichswehr\" (Army of the Weimar Republic) and joined the renamed National Socialist German Workers' Party in March 1920. In the autumn of 1920, he began his public appearances in Passau. On 15 May 1921 he was made editor-in-chief of \"V\u00f6lkischer Beobachter\", the Party newspaper, turning out a series of posters and a book attacking the Jews.\nEsser was able to use his abilities as a public speaker to rouse his audience, encouraging them to attack the political meetings of groups and parties that the NSDAP frowned upon. Esser's speeches were described by Louis Snyder as \"crude, uncultured, of low moral character\", featuring the kernel of future Nazi policies: extreme nationalism and anti-Semitism. On 12 August 1921 he left as editor of the Party newspaper and became the first head of propaganda (\"Propagandaleiter\", NSDAP), serving until the party was outlawed in November 1923.\nAt the time of the Beer Hall Putsch on 8\u20139 November 1923, Esser gave a speech and drafted the Party's \"proclamation to the German people\", but told Hitler that he was ill and did not participate in the actual march. After the failure of the putsch, he fled to Austria. Along with Julius Streicher, he later returned to Bavaria in January 1924 and was sentenced to three months in prison. \nEsser was released from prison in April 1924 and later visited Hitler in Landsberg Prison. On 9 July 1924 he was elected the Deputy Chairman of the Nazi front organization, the Greater German People's Community based in Bavaria under Streicher. He immediately made enemies with Gregor Strasser who was a leader of a rival organization in northern and western Germany which threatened to split the party in two. It was only in December 1924, after Hitler's release from prison, that the split was avoided. \nWhen the party was re-established on 27 February 1925, Esser immediately rejoined and was given membership number 2. On 4 August 1925, Esser resumed his position as Propaganda Leader (\"Reichspropagandaleiter\") and continued in this role until April 1926. After Esser fell out with Streicher, and Hitler sided with his opponent, Esser threatened to go to the media with the NSDAP's secrets. He was bought off by being made editor of \"Illustrierter Beobachter\" from 1926 until 1932 in which he engaged the public through gossip and scandal. On 16 September 1926 he was made \"Gauleiter\" of Upper Bavaria and Swabia, serving until May 1927.\nFrom December 1929 to April 1933, Esser was the Party's floor leader in Munich's \"Stadtrat\" (City Council). From 1929 to 1932, he also was a member of the Upper Bavarian \"Kreistag\" (District Assembly). In April 1932 he was elected to the Bavarian Landtag and became its president in April 1933, serving until it was dissolved on 14 October 1933. On 10 March 1933, when the Nazis seized control of the Bavarian state government, he was appointed one of the state's representatives to the \"Reichsrat\" until its abolition on 14 February 1934. Also in March 1933, he was elected to the \"Reichstag\" from the Nazi Party electoral list. At the November 1933 election, he was returned as a deputy for electoral constituency 24, Upper Bavaria\u2013Swabia, a seat he would retain for the duration of the Nazi regime. In December 1933 he was made 2nd Vice President of the chamber under Hermann G\u00f6ring, and some time later was styled Deputy to the \"Reichstag\" President, the only person to hold this title. In May 1933, Esser returned to Passau to address a rally celebrating the dedication of the \"Ostmarkmuseum\". He first wrote and published his book \"Die j\u00fcdische Weltpest\" (The Jewish World Plague) in 1933. After the pogroms of the \"Kristallnacht\" of 9 November 1938, he republished it in early 1939, again under the NSDAP press.\nOn 12 April 1933, he was appointed a Minister without Portfolio in the Bavarian government. He was also named head of the Bavarian Press Office and Chief of the Bavarian State Chancellery. This was followed on 1 March 1934 by his appointment as Bavaria's Minister of Economics by Bavarian \"Reichsstatthalter\" (Reich Governor) Franz Ritter von Epp. Esser intrigued against the powerful \"Gauleiter\" of Gau Munich-Upper Bavaria Adolf Wagner and, as a result, was forced out of his ministerial posts on 14 March 1935. After his exclusion from politics in Bavaria, Esser did not wield any significant political power. In April 1936, he was appointed Chairman of the Reich Committee for Foreign Tourism, and on 27 January 1939 State Secretary for Tourism in the Reich Propaganda Ministry under Joseph Goebbels. On 4 March 1939, he was promoted to \"Gruppenf\u00fchrer\" of the National Socialist Flyers Corps (NSFK). His last official duty was on 24 February 1945 in Munich, delivering a speech on behalf of Hitler at the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Nazi Party program.\nScandals.\nEsser enjoyed life and the power that his media and political power gave him with women. His dalliances led to his being marginalized. After he impregnated a young woman and refused to marry her, she appealed directly to Hitler, who told Esser that he must do the right thing. Upon the birth of the child, Hitler became its godfather.\nEsser later sexually assaulted the underage daughter of a businessman. The combined disgust of Strasser, Streicher and Joseph Goebbels led to his suspension from the NSDAP in March 1935. Hitler had previously said of him, \"I know Esser is a scoundrel, but I shall hold on to him as long as he can be of use to me!\"\nPost-war.\nArrested by the Americans after the end of the war in Europe, he was released in May 1948 after being considered an unimportant Nazi official. Esser then went into hiding only to be re-arrested in 1949 by the West German Police. Charged under the new West Germany anti-Nazification laws, he was found guilty of being a \"major offender\" and sentenced to five years hard labour with a loss of civil rights for life. He was released from custody in 1952.\nIn 1980, Bavaria's Minister President Franz Josef Strau\u00df congratulated Esser on his 80th birthday.\nEsser died in Dietramszell, Bavaria aged 80 on 7 February 1981."}
{"id": "732527", "revid": "45925219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732527", "title": "Dragutin Esser", "text": "Dragutin Esser was a French racing driver, driving cars designed or built by \u00c9mile Mathis.\nThe production cars of Mathis driven by Dragutin Esser or by Emile Mathis achieved numerous successes in the touring classes:\nDragutin Esser designed two cars of 2025cc and 2253cc which were built by Mathis under license from Stoewer.\nIn July 1914, Esser drove a Nagant on the XIV Grand Prix de l'Automobile Club de France - and finished 6th."}
{"id": "732529", "revid": "18420497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732529", "title": "McClung Museum of Natural History and Culture", "text": "The McClung Museum of Natural History and Culture is a museum located on the campus of the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. Built in 1963, exhibits focus on natural history, archaeology, anthropology, decorative arts, and local history.\nLong-term exhibits include:\nIn addition, the McClung Museum houses special exhibitions that temporarily showcase art or artifacts from other collections or institutions. The McClung Museum is accredited by the American Alliance of Museums and is an affiliate of the Smithsonian Institution."}
{"id": "732533", "revid": "1951353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732533", "title": "Safor", "text": "Safor (; ) is a \"comarca\" within the province of Valencia, Valencian Community, Spain. The capital is the city of Gandia, but also includes the towns of Oliva, Piles and Daim\u00fas, among others. The beach area of Gandia, La Platja, is well known for its wild nightlife during the summer.\nThe former natural and historical comarca of Valldigna has been integrated into Safor comarca for administrative purposes.\nClimate.\nThe predominant climate in Safor is mediterranean-subtropical (K\u00f6ppen climate classification: CSa) with very mild temperatures during winters, and hot summers. The annual average temperature depends on the zone, different temperature ranges occur near the sea to the mountains inland. Near the sea the average annual temperature is about 18-20\u00a0\u00b0C while in the interior the average annual temperatures are about 17-18\u00a0\u00b0C. Almost all of the cultivars in this zone are oranges and tangerines, so the majority of the zones are frostless. The rain quantity are different, with zones that can be considered as subtropical semi-arid BSh climates, and others that pertain to the CSa mediterranean climate with hot summers. The wettest season is autumn."}
{"id": "732534", "revid": "49194911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732534", "title": "Artefacts", "text": ""}
{"id": "732535", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732535", "title": "Albert Austin", "text": " Albert Austin (13 December 1882 \u2013 17 August 1953) was an English actor, film star, director, and script writer, remembered for his work in Charlie Chaplin films.\nBiography.\nAustin was born in Birmingham, Warwickshire, England, and was a music hall performer before going to the United States with Chaplin, both as members of the Fred Karno troupe in 1910.\nKnown for his painted handlebar moustache and acerbic manner, he worked for Chaplin's stock company and played supporting roles in many of his films, often as a foil to the star and working as his assistant director.\nAfter the development of sound films, he moved into scriptwriting, directing, and acting, chiefly in comedy shorts. Among other things, he assisted Chaplin in developing the plot of \"The Adventurer\" (1917). However, he received screen credit as a collaborator only once, for \"City Lights\" (1931).\nAs an actor, he appeared in Chaplin's comedies for the Mutual Film Corporation. Later he had two brief, uncredited roles in one of Chaplin's 'silent' comedies made in the sound era, \"City Lights\". Austin is also seen very briefly (as a cab driver) at the beginning of Chaplin's short film \"One A.M.\" (1916). He also appeared in films starring Jackie Coogan and Mack Sennett.\nAustin's best known performance may be in Chaplin's short \"The Pawnshop\" (1916). Austin enters the shop with an alarm clock, hoping to pawn it. To establish the clock's value, Chaplin dissects it. Austin maintains a deadpan expression as Chaplin progressively destroys his clock, then hands the pieces back to Austin.\nHe had the leading role in Mary Pickford's \"Suds\" (1920), where he co-stars as a customer leaving his shirt at her laundry. In that film, he appears without his comic moustache.\nIn his final years, he worked as a police officer at the Warner Brothers studios, according to a \"New York Times\" obituary. He died on 17 August 1953, and was interred at Grand View Memorial Park Cemetery in Glendale, California."}
{"id": "732539", "revid": "16543817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732539", "title": "Hugh Balsham", "text": ""}
{"id": "732549", "revid": "7611264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732549", "title": "Boisbriand", "text": "Boisbriand () is an off-island suburb of Montreal, at the entrance of the Lower-Laurentides in southwestern Quebec, Canada, on the north shore of the Rivi\u00e8re des Mille \u00celes in the Th\u00e9r\u00e8se-De Blainville Regional County Municipality.\nAlthough relatively small, Boisbriand is bisected by three highways: Highway 13 on the west, Highway 15 on the east, and Highway 640 in the middle/north.\nHistory and Economy.\nIn September 1683, Louis XIV, King of France handed over to the soldier and seigneur Michel-Sidrac Dugu\u00e9 de Boisbriand a vast territory located north of the Rivi\u00e8re des Mille \u00celes. The territory extended from Terrebonne to the in Saint-Eustache.\nIn 1740, , daughter of Michel-Sidrac, was actively involved in the colonization of the territory. 1740 marked the reception of the first settlers on the seigneury. The brothers Joseph, Fran\u00e7ois and Jean Charbonneau, settled near Grande-C\u00f4te, north of .\nAround 1750, a seigneurial manor was built by her daughter Suzanne de Langloiserie of Blainville near Grande-C\u00f4te, where Highway 15 passes today. This manor has now disappeared. Later, Marie-Anne-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se de Blainville Lamarque (known as Th\u00e9r\u00e8se de Blainville) succeeded her mother and in turn settled in the manor.\nThe establishment of a first parish in 1789 concretized the colonization efforts and contributed to the acceleration of the settlement of the region. The construction of a church further north (the current site of the church of Sainte-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se) created a new center of attraction. About fifteen years later, the first public roads were built, including Cur\u00e9-Labelle Boulevard, which was called \"the Grand Line\" at the time.\nIt was not until 1845 that a new system of administration was established, providing for the election of administrators (mayor and councilmen) by landowners. The year 1888 marked the advent of electricity in the region and the industrial era began.\nOn January 1, 1946, the municipality of Sainte-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se-Ouest was founded. It was a detachment of the large parish of Sainte-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se, which originally included the current territories of Saint-Augustin, Saint-Janvier, Sainte-Monique, Sainte-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se, Rosem\u00e8re, Bois-des-Filion, Lorraine and Blainville. On July 15, 1970, when the population of the municipality numbered 5,600, the Lieutenant Governor of Quebec granted the municipality's request and granted it by letters patent the status of a \"city\" governed by the Cities and Towns Act under the name of \"Sainte-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se-Ouest\". The council of this municipality, which had only one ward, was composed of the mayor and six councilmen.\nIn 1964, General Motors Canada (GM) decided to build its plant in Boisbriand. There were several reasons for this decision: the bearing capacity of the soil, which is made up of solid rock located at shallow depths, the proximity of the new Highway 15 and a main railway line.\nOn October 12, 1965, the inauguration of GM's Quebec plant took place, on the current site of the Faubourg Boisbriand shopping center.\nIn 1969, the municipality of Sainte-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se-Ouest was required to give up a significant portion of its territory while the Government of Canada expropriated a large tract of land for the development of the Montr\u00e9al\u2013Mirabel International Airport, which would be designated as Mirabel. As a result, part of C\u00f4te-Nord Road and all the territory north of this road, including C\u00f4te Sainte-Marianne, was now part of the territory of the City of Mirabel.\nOn March 16, 1974, the name of the town of \"Sainte-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se-Ouest\" was changed to \"Boisbriand\" by proclamation signed by the Lieutenant Governor of Quebec. This name change concluded a debate that began in 1969 when the current municipal council tried to change the name of the city to that of Boisbriand but abandoned its project, following vigorous negative representations from two major companies in the city. In 1972, one of the members of the new Council elected in November 1970, J. Maurice Roussel, presented a new resolution, accompanied by arguments carefully prepared and supported by the various local organizations, whose representatives were present in the council chamber. Some members of council suggested that the project be put under consideration, but Councillor Roussel objected vigorously and asked for a vote. Council had no choice but to unanimously adopt the resolution and ask lawyer Claude Ouellette to move forward. Despite numerous pressures from companies including General Motors, the project was successfully completed.\nIn 1994, the Electoral Representation Commission of Quebec sanctioned the division of the city into electoral districts, of which there will be eight. This division was mandatory since the official population of the city had surpassed 20,000 inhabitants.\nOn August 29, 2002, GM closed its Boisbriand car assembly plant, the only one in Quebec.\nThe opening of the first businesses in the Faubourg Boisbriand. built on the former site of the plant began in 2007. There are several stores (food, decoration and furniture, pet stores, fashion, financial services, personal care and beauty, sports), big box chains (Costco, Staples (operating in Quebec as \"Bureau en gros\"), Dollarama and Toys \"R\" Us) as well as several restaurants and bars. The site also houses residential buildings on the west side. At the beginning of 2021, there were 1,250 housing units. An additional 600 units are planned over the next few years.\nHasidic Jewish community.\nThe Hasidic community of Kiryas Tosh is located within the city limits and make up a 10th of its population. The community of about 550 households or about 3,200 people was home to the former Tosher Rebbe, Meshulim Feish (Ferencz) Lowy, who established the community in 1964.\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Boisbriand had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nSports.\nBoisbriand is home to the Blainville-Boisbriand Armada of the Quebec Maritimes Junior Hockey League. The Armada play their home games at Centre d'Excellence Sports Rousseau.\nThe city promotes several sports teams of different categories like minor hockey, aquatic club, athletics club, fencing, karate, synchronized swimming, figure skating.\nEducation.\nThe Commission scolaire de la Seigneurie-des-Mille-\u00celes (CSSMI) operates Francophone public schools.\nSome areas are served by \u00c9cole Le Tandem in Sainte-Th\u00e9r\u00e8se.\nSir Wilfrid Laurier School Board operates Anglophone schools:\nClimate.\nThe climate of Boisbriand is a humid continental climate. Winters are cold with a lot of snowfall and summers are hot and humid. There are 4 seasons spring, summer, autumn and winter."}
{"id": "732550", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732550", "title": "Howard Schultz", "text": "Howard D. Schultz (born July 19, 1953) is an American businessman and author who was the chairman and chief executive officer of Starbucks from 1986 to 2000, from 2008 to 2017, and interim CEO from 2022 to 2023. Schultz owned the Seattle SuperSonics basketball team from 2001 to 2006.\nSchultz began working at Starbucks in 1982. He later left and opened Il Giornale, a specialty coffeeshop that merged with Starbucks during the late 1980s. Under Schultz, the company established a large network of stores which has influenced coffee culture in Seattle, the U.S., and internationally. Following large-scale distribution deals, Starbucks became the largest coffee-house chain in the world. Schultz took the company public in 1992 and used a $271 million valuation to double their store count in a series of highly publicized coffee wars. He stepped down as CEO in 2000, succeeded by Orin Smith. Due to the rapid expansion of Starbucks under Schultz's leadership, he has been described as the \u201cRay Kroc of his generation\u201d.\nDuring the 2008 financial crisis, Schultz returned as chief executive. Succeeding Jim Donald, Schultz led a mass firing of executives and employees and shuttered hundreds of stores. He orchestrated multiple acquisitions of American and Chinese beverage companies, introduced a national loyalty program, and enforced fair trade standards. His aggressive expansion in Chinese markets has been credited with reconciling the country's tea-culture with coffee consumption in China. Schultz was succeeded by Kevin Johnson as CEO in April 2017 and Myron Ullman as chairman in June 2018.\nSchultz has written four books on business. He is an outspoken neoliberal. Schultz publicly considered a candidacy in the 2012, 2016, and 2020 U.S. presidential elections as an independent candidate. He declined to join all three contests. His positions on domestic politics are socially liberal and fiscally moderate. In foreign policy, he is seen as a \"liberal hawk\", favoring American-led international affairs and neoliberalism. Schultz was named the 209th-richest person in the U.S. by \"Forbes\" with a net worth of $4.3 billion (October 2020). Schultz started the Schultz Family Foundation to help military veterans and fight youth unemployment.\nOn March 16, 2022, Starbucks announced that CEO Kevin Johnson was retiring and that Howard Schultz would take over as interim CEO until Laxman Narasimhan took over as CEO in April 2023. On March 20, 2023, Schultz announced that he would be stepping down early from the position.\nEarly life and education.\nHoward D. Schultz was born on July 19, 1953, to Ashkenazi Jewish parents, Fred and Elaine Schultz, in Brooklyn, New York. His father was a truck driver, and his mother was a receptionist. Howard has two siblings. Schultz grew up in the Canarsie public housing projects. According to Schultz, his family was poor, although childhood contemporaries recount a middle-class upbringing, with one of his contemporaries referring to the development in which he was raised as \"the country club of projects.\"\nSchultz spent his time after school at the Boys Club of New York. He is active in the Boys\u2019 Club of New York's Alumni.\nSchultz graduated from Canarsie High School in 1971. He attended Northern Michigan University (NMU) from 1971 to 1975, where he was a member of Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity, graduating with a B.A. in communications. He had played football, expecting an athletic scholarship but an injury caused him to quit.\nCareer.\nEarly career.\nIn 1976, he became a salesman for Xerox in New York. In 1979, he was recruited by French private equity firm PAI Partners to be general manager of a Swedish kitchenware manufacturer's U.S. subsidiary, Hammarplast. At Hammarplast, Schultz was responsible for the coffee machine manufacturer's U.S. operations, and in 1981 he visited the Starbucks Coffee Company in Seattle to fill their plastic cone filter orders.\nStarbucks.\nIn 1982, at age 29, Schultz was hired at Starbucks as the director of retail operations and marketing. Schultz was exposed to coffee in Italy on a buying trip to Milan, Italy, in 1983. On his return, he worked to persuade company owners Jerry Baldwin and Gordon Bowker to offer traditional espresso beverages in addition to the whole bean coffee, leaf teas, and spices. After a successful pilot of the cafe concept, Baldwin and Bowker were intrigued but, noting the high cost of espresso machines, the relative paucity of expertise for maintenance and repair of the machines in America, and Americans' lack of familiarity with the drink, they decided not to deploy Schultz's idea further and he stepped down from Starbucks to start his own business. Schultz left Starbucks in 1985 to open a store of his own. He needed $400,000 to start his business. Schultz visited over 500 espresso bars in Milan and, with him assuming most of the risk associated with introducing espresso to the American market, Starbucks invested $150,000 in the new venture, with Baldwin receiving a place on its board and Bowker offering unofficial assistance. Another $100,000 investment came from local doctor Ron Margolis. Of the 242 investors Schultz approached, 217 rejected his idea. By 1986, he had raised the money he needed to open the first store, Il Giornale, named after the Milanese newspaper of the same name. The store offered ice cream in addition to coffee, had little seating, and played opera music in the background. Two years later, the original Starbucks management team decided to focus on Peet's Coffee &amp; Tea and sold its Starbucks retail unit to Schultz and Il Giornale for US$3.8\u00a0million.\nSchultz rebranded Il Giornale with the Starbucks name, and expanded its reach across the United States. This type of market strategy received mixed reception from both customers and competitors. The firm's relations with independent coffeehouse chains were strained, while some owners credited Starbucks with educating customers on coffee. Schultz did not believe in franchising, and made a point of having Starbucks retain ownership of every domestic outlet. Schultz's positioning of Starbucks as a social hub is widely seen as introducing the second wave of coffee culture in the U.S., particularly in Seattle. On June 26, 1992, Starbucks had its initial public offering (IPO) and trading of its common stock under the stock ticker SBUX. The IPO raised $271 million for the company and financed the doubling of their stores. On June 1, 2000, Schultz stepped down as CEO of Starbucks, moving to the new position of chief global strategist to help the company expand internationally. He was succeeded by Orin Smith, who worked with Schultz as his chief financial officer during the 1990s. After coordinating the first store opening in China in January 1999, Schultz took the following year to develop a customer base for coffee in the region. Throughout the late-2000s and early-2010s, Schultz directed the company to plan one to two store openings a day in mainland China. Back in the firm's U.S. market, various coffee wars with McDonalds and Dunkin' lowered Starbucks' marketshare and the stock price fell 75% from 2006 to 2008. While revenue was growing broadly, it was largely dependent on new store openings creating unsustainable (or inorganic) growth.\nOn January 7, 2008, after an eight-year hiatus, Schultz returned as CEO of Starbucks during the height of the 2008 financial crisis. He succeeded Jim Donald who took over from Smith in 2005. The coffeehouse was increasingly criticized for employee work conditions and their internal tipping policies during this time; in March 2009, he and the board approved a $100 million settlement in back tips in a barista-led class action lawsuit in California. He led a mass-firing of executives, closed down hundreds of stores, and temporarily closed all U.S. locations to retrain employees in making espresso. Schultz redoubled and enforced the firm's fair trade and ethical source policies for their coffee bean supply-chain in Africa and other coffee-producing countries. In the succeeding two years, he doubled their annual purchase of fair trade coffee, up to, by some estimates, 40 million pounds. Schultz arranged the appointment of the coffeehouse's first chief technology officer. At this time, Schultz was earning a total compensation of $9.7 million, which included a base salary of $1.2 million, and stock options granted of $7.8 million. In addition to his board membership with Starbucks, Schultz was an early and significant stakeholder in Jamba Juice in 2011, and on the board of payment processing company, Square, Inc., until 2014. During the summer of 2014, Schultz launched the Starbucks College Achievement Plan, a partnership with Arizona State University, which allows all employees at Starbucks working 20 or more hours a week to qualify for free tuition through ASU's online courses. It was reported in 2018 that Schultz had taken a one-dollar annual salary sometime in the past couple of years.\nSchultz again stepped down as CEO in December 2016, assuming the position of executive chairman. From 2008 to 2017, Schultz oversaw nearly $100 billion added to the company's market capitalization. From the 1980s to his retirement, a series of coffee wars increased Starbucks from 11 coffeehouses in Seattle to 28,000 stores in 77 countries. On June 4, 2018, Schultz announced that he would retire from active management of Starbucks after 37 years, as he was considering amongst other options a campaign for U.S. president. Kevin Johnson, the firm's president and chief operating officer for the previous two years, succeeded Schultz as CEO while Myron Ullman took over as chairman in June 2018. Schultz would return to the role of CEO in an interim position following Johnson departing the position in March 2022.\n On March 20, 2023, two weeks before he was projected to turn the leadership of the company over to incoming CEO Laxman Narasimhan, Schultz stepped down as interim CEO of Starbucks. Schultz appeared before the United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions on March 29, 2023.\nSeattle SuperSonics and Seattle Storm.\nIn January 2001, Schultz led a group of ten investors who bought the National Basketball Association's Seattle SuperSonics and the Women's National Basketball Association's Seattle Storm from the Ackerley Group for $200\u00a0million. During his tenure as the SuperSonics team owner, he was criticized for his na\u00efvet\u00e9 and propensity to run the franchise as a business rather than a sports team. Schultz feuded with player Gary Payton, feeling that Payton disrespected him and the team by not showing up to the first day of training camp in 2002. In February 2006, he stated that the SuperSonics needed $200\u00a0million to renovate KeyArena or build a new arena for the team, and if the Washington State Legislature would not approve this, he would look to sell or move the team.\nOn July 18, 2006, Schultz sold the SuperSonics and Storm to Clay Bennett, chairman of the Professional Basketball Club LLC, an Oklahoma City ownership group, for $350\u00a0million, after having failed to convince the city of Seattle to provide public funding to build a new arena in the Greater Seattle area to replace KeyArena. Bennett agreed to a stipulation that he would make a \"good-faith best effort\" for one year to keep both teams in Seattle. The sincerity of the good-faith effort was widely disputed by the way Bennett acted and by direct quotes from his partner Aubrey McClendon. On January 8, 2008, Bennett sold the Storm to Force 10 Hoops, LLC, an ownership group of four Seattle women, which kept the team in Seattle.\nSchultz filed a lawsuit against Bennett \u2013 in April 2008 \u2013 to rescind the July 2006 sale based on what Schultz claimed was fraud and intentional misrepresentation. However, Schultz dropped the lawsuit in August 2008. On July 2, 2008, the city of Seattle reached a settlement with the new ownership group and the SuperSonics moved to Oklahoma City and became the Thunder for the 2008\u201309 NBA season. The sale to the out-of-state owners considerably damaged Schultz's popularity in Seattle. In a local newspaper poll, Schultz was judged \"most responsible\" for the team leaving the city. Ten years later, in 2019, Schultz accepted full responsibility for the sale. \"Selling the Sonics as I did is one of the biggest regrets of my professional life. I should have been willing to lose money until a local buyer emerged. I am forever sorry.\"\nAuthor.\nSchultz has written four books, three of which incorporate business memoir-style narratives. According to the Free Library of Philadelphia, his books are known to be a blend of \"part memoir and part manifesto of corporate social responsibility\". At the start of 2019, Schultz released an online class that covered the business leadership topics discussed in his books on the MasterClass platform. Organizational consultant Warren Bennis has influenced Schultz's writing.\nHis first book, \"Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time\" was written in 1997 with Dori Jones Yang. His second book, \"Onward: How Starbucks Fought for Its Life Without Losing Its Soul\", co-written with Joanne Gordon, was published in 2011. Jeff Bailey, of the \"Los Angeles Times\", called the book \"self-flattering\" and criticized its \"mostly perfunctory account of Starbucks' actual problems\". \"Publishers Weekly\" called the book \"a personal, suspenseful, and surprisingly open account\" of the rise of Starbucks. \"Kirkus Reviews\" praised the book's \"immense detail\" but critiqued Schultz's coverage of \"outside criticisms of his performance\". \"The Seattle Times\" was critical, saying the book could only \"appeal to business types but probably not to the average latte drinker\". \"Fast Company\" placed \"Onward\" within the top five books that \"[predicted] the future of workplace leadership\" in 2014. All sale proceeds from the book were donated to the Starbucks Foundation, the firm's main charity.\nHis third book, \"For Love of Country: What Our Veterans Can Teach Us About Citizenship, Heroism, and Sacrifice\", co-written with Rajiv Chandrasekaran, was published in 2014. \"The New York Times Book Review\" calling it \"well-written\" and \"formidable.\" It was later added to the \"Times\"' 2014 Winter Reading List. In writing a review for \"The Wall Street Journal\" U.S. Army major general Robert H. Scales stated \"after reading this moving book I'll not likely pass a Starbucks again without stopping for a patriotic cup.\" \"The Washington Post\" published a similarly positive review.\nIn 2019, he published his fourth book, \"From the Ground Up: A Journey to Reimagine the Promise of America\". The book was widely seen as a candidate memoir as it was published right before the 2020 United States presidential election. His book received 1.9/5 stars on Amazon, after some Democratic voters gave negative reviews, due his possible candidacy splitting the Democratic vote. \"Rolling Stone\" called the book \"stunningly boring\" and an \"autobiography of a pretentious oligarch.\" A book promotion stop at Harvard University led to a small student protest. \"From the Ground Up\" was featured on \"The Wall Street Journal\"'s bestseller list in February, and was listed as a \"New York Times\" bestseller for 2019. \"Reuters\" rated the book highly, yet called it \"caffeine free\" for its inability to \"harness his business success\" in a potential White House run.\nPolitical views.\nSchultz is an outspoken neoliberal, centrist, technocratic, and political independent. Schultz's political positions are similar to the Democratic Party platform. Schultz supports free trade, a balanced budget, comprehensive tax reform, gun control, and same-sex marriage.\nSchultz hosted a fundraiser in his Seattle home for John Edwards during the 2008 presidential election cycle, eventually donating to the campaigns of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. Since 2012, Schultz's public statements have led to press speculation that he would run for President of the United States. In both the 2008 and 2012 United States presidential election he endorsed the presidential candidacy of Barack Obama. Schultz donated to Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign twice, once on June 30, 2007, for $2,300, and again on October 24, 2008, for $2,300. He endorsed Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton in the 2016 United States presidential election.\nLabor unions.\nHoward Schultz has been taking anti-union actions at Starbucks since the late 1980s. When unions were able to form at the company, they disbanded soon afterward, due to corporate reaction to their formation.\nIn 2009, a bill known as the Employee Free Choice Act was being proposed in Congress. It would allow unions to form by simply gathering a majority of signatures in the workplace, what is known as a \"card check\", obviating the need to have secret ballot union-elections. Schultz, along with the CEOs of Costco, and Whole Foods lobbied to have this provision removed from the bill, and a provision making it easier for unions to secure their first bargaining agreement. The Employee Free Choice Act never made it into law.\nSchultz's overall vision on unions, and their place at Starbucks were published in a 2012 edition of his memoir entitled \"Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time\". Schultz wrote, \"I was convinced that under my leadership, employees would come to realize that I would listen to their concerns. If they had faith in me and my motives, they wouldn't need a union.\"\nIn 2022, as union organizing campaigns started to form at Starbucks, and gain victories, Schultz held a town hall meeting as he returned to the company as interim CEO. In the town hall Schultz said that Starbucks was \"under assault from unionization\", \"outside forces\", and that Starbucks did not need an intermediary between management, and labor. During these union organizing campaigns by Starbucks employees, the corporation has been firing employees who have engaged in unionizing. One employee who had been working to organize Starbucks workers in Arizona was fired just one hour after Schultz had finished speaking at his town hall. These terminations took place despite a notice of formal complaint from the National Labor Relations Board against the retaliatory practices Starbucks had taken against employees who were working to unionize the corporation.\nOn March 29, 2023, Schultz testified before the United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. In response to most of the questions Schultz gave the same answer: \"I support the law, and I also take offense with you categorizing me or Starbucks as a union buster when that is not true.\"\nDuring the hearing Sen. Bernie Sanders asked Schultz whether he would follow the ruling of NLRB administrative law judge Michael Rosas. Rosas had found that Starbucks had engaged in \u201cegregious and widespread misconduct\u201d in dealing with the unionizing efforts of its employees in Buffalo. As a result of these findings he ruled that the company must reinstate the employees they had fired, and Schultz must either read to his employees a letter informing them of their rights or be present for a meeting in which workers are informed of their rights. Schultz responded that he would not be following this ruling as he believed that Starbucks had not broken the law.\nClimate change.\nAs chief executive of Starbucks, Schultz has commented on the impact climate change has on coffee production. He has opposed the United States withdrawal from the Paris Agreement. To finance a green economy, he has advocated for a combination of taxing oil and gas as well as harnessing wind energy. Schultz has criticized the 2018 Green New Deal for being economically unrealistic.\nBipartisanship.\nIn December 2012 Schultz penned an open letter to various newspapers about an upcoming initiative at Starbucks involving partisan gridlock in Washington. On December 27, Starbucks employees in Washington were asked to write \"come together\" on all cups distributed, to encourage bipartisanship in the federal government. During his exploratory 2020 presidential campaign, Schultz explained to multiple media outlets that, if elected, he wished to exclusively legislate with bipartisan support. This stance includes the appointment and confirmations of U.S. Supreme Court justices.\nFiscal discipline.\nSchultz is averse to debt and, politically, is a deficit hawk. During his 2019 exploratory bid for the presidency, Schultz framed his candidacy as that of a socially liberal deficit hawk with fiscally moderate leanings. In June 2018, Schultz stated in an interview that he thought the national debt is \"the greatest threat domestically to the country\" and that \"we have to go after entitlements.\" He has also stated that the nation's annual sovereign interest payments, totaling over $400 billion in 2020, is \"unsustainable.\" President Barack Obama's chief economist, Jason Furman, was critical of Schultz's hard-lined \"obsessive\" position against sovereign debt: \"America is not a company.\" Furman stated in February 2020, \"many successful companies are much more leveraged than the United States.\"\nTrade.\nThroughout the 2018 start and continuation of the U.S. trade war against China, Schultz has been critical of its motivations and handling, and has called for a reduction of trade tariffs and other import-export taxes.\nIn 2008, Schultz doubled the amount of fair trade coffee Starbucks bought. By the end of 2009, 65% of all coffee product was fair trade and by 2015, nearly all of it was. Starbucks signed an agreement with the government of Ethiopia in 2007 to ensure increased pay to farmers. Schultz committed to an agreement that all 747 stores in Britain would be certified fair trade by year-end. The agreement made Starbucks the largest buyer of fair trade coffee.\nBusiness.\nSchultz claims to be a supporter of the free market. In 2020 he described the treatment of business and capitalism by American society as \"vilification\". During the COVID-19 pandemic (COVID-19), advocated for fiscal stimulus to small businesses harmed during the crisis. Schultz described the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act as insufficient, and criticized the Act's Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) for being a temporary solution. On April 21, he called for the federal government to institute a \"Marshall Plan\" for small business, in the form of federally-backed loans.\nTax reform.\nSchultz said he supported \"comprehensive tax reform\" in January 2019. He opposed Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's proposal to raise the marginal tax rate on income over $10 million to 70%, saying it was \"punitive\" and contrary to the American Dream. He also opposed Donald Trump's passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which lowered high-income and corporate taxes. During a \"CNN\" town hall, he stated that he wanted the marginal tax rate for the highest-earning citizens to be increased from 37% to 39%. Schultz is against lowering taxes for large corporations, favoring tax cuts for middle-market and small businesses.\nSame-sex marriage.\nStarbucks took an institutional stance in favor of same-sex marriage in 2013 (two years prior to US Federal recognition). In response to a backlash from conservative and religious groups, Schultz told a shareholder meeting that opponents of the stance should \"Sell your shares\", and \"buy shares in another company.\" His response was widely publicized, with \"The Washington Post\" stating: \"Schultz [did] something CEOs rarely do: He told off a shareholder.\" \"Fortune\" wrote that Schultz \"[took] on gay marriage before it was a topic most executives would even touch.\nHealthcare.\nUnder his leadership Starbucks became the first U.S. company to offer part-time workers, particularly baristas, healthcare. Schultz is against Medicare for All. He has vocally criticized Republican-led efforts to repeal the ACA as uncooperative.\nGun control.\nSchultz supports gun control and universal background checks. In July 2013, Starbucks customers brought in their weapons and guns into local stores to show appreciation for the coffeehouse's support of the Second Amendment. Later in September, as CEO, Schultz asked customers to no longer bring guns into its stores.\nImmigration.\nSchultz has supported a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants who had entered the United States as children. He called for greater border security, but vocally opposed President Donald Trump's proposal of a border wall. In 2017, Schultz got into a highly publicized argument with President Trump after he instructed Starbucks to disregard an executive order barring Syrian refugees into the country. Within 24 hours of the executive order, Schultz wrote to his employees that recent immigrants and refugees, particularly those with strong ties to the U.S. military, would be fast-tracked to employment. President Trump then called on his supporters to boycott Starbucks.\nVeterans' affairs.\nIn 2015, Schultz founded Onward Veterans, a private foundation to help post-9/11 military veterans transition to civilian life. In 2014, Schultz authored his first non-business book, \"For Love of Country: What Our Veterans Can Teach Us About Citizenship, Heroism, and Sacrifice\", co-written with Rajiv Chandrasekaran. The book discussed the U.S. military's role in the Iraq War and War in Afghanistan, and their transitions back into civilian life. To market the book he expanded tuition support for veterans families.\nOver a radio interview in March 2019, when asked if he would be an effective commander-in-chief, Schultz responded: \"I probably have spent more time in the last decade certainly than anyone running for president with the military.\" His comments were criticized by Pete Buttigieg and Tulsi Gabbard, both of whom served in the military, for being tone deaf. Schultz later apologized for his remarks. Schultz's tentative 2020 presidential candidacy was endorsed by former U.S. Army General Peter W. Chiarelli.\nWashington state politics.\nIn 2012, Schultz had Starbucks express support for Washington state's Referendum 74, which legalized same-sex marriage in that state. Schultz opposed Seattle's ordinance to raise the local minimum wage to $15, which at the time was the highest in the nation. The ordinance passed.\nFrom 2005 to 2019, he reportedly voted in 11 of 38 municipal elections. His voting record in Seattle has been described by \"The Seattle Times\" as a \"pattern of ignoring many local elections over the decades.\" The paper reported in 2020 that while Schultz is heavily involved in the state's political debates, he often \"doesn't show up to vote\" in various municipal elections including that of the city's mayor and city council. Washington governor Jay Inslee, who was running against Schultz in the 2020 election, criticized him for his absence in state politics.\nCongressman George Nethercutt, a moderate Republican, opined that Eastern Washington \"may like what they hear and vote for [Schultz]\" more than the Western region.\nForeign policy.\nSchultz has been described as a foreign policy \"liberal hawk\", favoring socially liberal politics domestically and aggressive, interventionist policies abroad. Generally, he is a supporter of neoliberal institutionalism and international cooperation. In line with this, Schultz advocates for a U.S.-centered unipolar world where countries work with America to ensure stability and peace.\nPolitical elections.\n2012 presidential election.\nAt the start of the 2012 United States presidential election Schultz's name was floated as a potential Democratic candidate. After he instructed Starbucks employees in Washington to write \"come together\" on all cups to encourage bipartisanship in the federal government on December 26, press speculation intensified. However, Schultz \"batted down\" these reports days later and confirmed that he was not running for political office. He continued to publicly bemoan the political climate at the time, saying he was \"not optimistic about the leadership\" of the U.S. on national television. Papers continued to question the finality of his decision with \"New York Magazine\" writing \"We look forward to your 2016 campaign\".\n2016 presidential election.\nIn late September and early August 2015, press speculation began to surface about a potential run in the upcoming 2016 United States presidential election for Schultz. Maureen Dowd, of \"The New York Times\", broke a story on August 1 that friends of \"America's lord of latte, Howard Schultz, have been pressing him to join the Democratic primary.\" Over the next couple of days media outlets began to speculate if Schultz was going to make a formal announcement. According to \"Fortune\", he was positioned to be a \"worthy party back-up to [Hillary] Clinton.\" Schultz wrote a \"New York Times\" op-ed on August 6, 2015, denying this, stating, \"Despite the encouragement of others, I have no intention of entering the presidential fray. I'm not done serving Starbucks.\" Newspapers such as \"The Atlantic\", billed Schultz as the \"liberal Donald Trump\" due to his comparable career as a businessman and wealth.\n2020 presidential election.\nAfter Schultz stepped down from Starbucks in 2018, political commentators speculated whether he would run in the 2020 United States presidential election. There was additional encouragement from a draft movement called Ready for Schultz. He hired Steve Schmidt and Bill Burton, two political consultants, to assess his candidacy. On January 27, 2019, he stated in an interview with \"60 Minutes\" that he was exploring a run for president as an independent candidate, and that he considered running as a centrist. He was reportedly willing to spend $300 to $500 million on the 2020 election. Schultz's proposed independent candidacy was widely condemned by Democrats who argued that Schultz's third-party candidacy would help to re-elect President Trump by splitting the vote of those opposed to the president. Political scientist Larry Sabato said that Schultz's candidacy was likely to benefit Trump. However, a \"CNN\" analysis believed that \"running on a deficit-reduction platform might end up syphoning as many Republican moderates away from Trump as liberals or independents away from the Democratic nominee.\" In response to claims that his candidacy would benefit Trump, Schultz said, \"Nobody wants to see Donald Trump removed from office more than me.\" His first town hall in Seattle received mixed reception with protestors holding up \"venti mistake\" and \"grande ego\" banners while his actual speech was well received. As a large shareholder of Starbucks stock, Schultz was repeatedly asked about potentially selling all of his holdings if elected to the White House. \"There's multiple ways to do this, set up a blind trust, do lots of things to remove any conflict of interest\" he replied. He had, however, promised to release all of his tax returns if elected.\nLater in February, Schultz said he would stay out of the race if the Democrats nominated \"a centrist Democrat.\" In May 2019, Schultz delayed his decision and by September 6, officially ruled out a presidential run, stating that it wasn't the best way to \"serve our country at this time.\" The eventual progression of candidate Joe Biden as the presumptive nominee motivated Schultz to step aside due to their overlapping political ideologies. While he had not officially endorsed Biden for the presidency at the time, Schultz had stated in interviews that he \"admires\" the candidate. However, on September 14, 2020, Schultz endorsed Biden, and called on Americans to vote for Biden \"for the future of our republic\".\nPersonal life.\nIn 1982, Schultz married Sheri Kersch, with whom he has two children. His son, Jordan, is a sports analyst and NFL insider currently working for Bleacher Report. They live in Seattle's Madison Park neighborhood, having previously lived near Madrona. Schultz is a noted coffee aficionado, reportedly drinking four to five cups of coffee every day.\nWealth.\nSchultz was named the 209th-richest person in the U.S. in October 2020 by \"Forbes\" with a net worth of $4.3 billion. His exploration of running for political office has prompted calls for him to sell all of his stock holdings in Starbucks to appease any conflict of interest. Although not firmly committing to sell his shares upon election, Schultz has expressed interest in setting up a blind trust to hold his shares. However, \"Foreign Policy\" noted that even if in a blind trust, his interest in the shares could still prompt a conflict of interest because the shares' performance is linked with the company's performance. In 1998, Schultz established venture capital firm Maveron with investment banker Dan Levitan. He and Levitan primarily invest in start-up companies and seeding consumer-focused companies, such as eBay, Shutterfly, and Zulily. As of July 2014, the venture capital firm was worth $1.3 billion in assets under management (AUM). As of July 2022, Schultz's net worth is US$3.9 billion.\nSchultz is the owner of 'PI', a 77-metre luxury superyacht built by Feadship for $120 million.\nPhilanthropy.\nIn 1996, Howard and Sheri Schultz co-founded the Schultz Family Foundation, which supports Onward Youth, aimed at promoting employment for young people between the ages of 16 and 24 who are not in school and not working, and Onward Veterans, which is poised to help post-9/11 military veterans to successfully transition to civilian life.\nAfter the October 7th 2023 attacks on Israel by Hamas, the Schultz foundation released a press release on the 13th of October stating that \"we join millions around the world who will not remain silent bystanders to evil\" and that \"More will follow, including support to address the trauma and humanitarian needs that are unfolding\". Later on 26 October 2023 Starbucks released another press release further clarifying Schultz and the company's position. The press release stated that Schultz and the company had never sent profits to the Israeli government or army. It did not discuss the Schultz foundation.\nAwards and honors.\nIn 1998, Schultz received the 'Israel 50th Anniversary Tribute Award' for \"playing a key role in promoting a close alliance between the United States and Israel\". In 1999 AIDs Action awarded Schultz the National Leadership Award for philanthropic and educational efforts to battle AIDS. Schultz was named \"Fortune\" magazine's 2011 \"Businessperson of the Year\" for his initiatives in the economy and job market. \"Fortune\" went on to list him as the most generous CEO of 2015, for Starbucks' healthcare coverage, educational opportunities, and employee stock options.\nSchultz spoke at the 2017 Arizona State University commencement ceremony and was presented with an honorary Doctor of humane letters degree. In November 2017, the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund presented Schultz with the National Equal Justice Award."}
{"id": "732551", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732551", "title": "Th\u00e9r\u00e8se-de Blainville Regional County Municipality, Quebec", "text": ""}
{"id": "732552", "revid": "48143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732552", "title": "Giaginsky District, Adygeya Republic", "text": ""}
{"id": "732553", "revid": "80866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732553", "title": "Lady Pitkeathley", "text": ""}
{"id": "732554", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732554", "title": "Baron Garel-Jones", "text": ""}
{"id": "732555", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732555", "title": "Baroness Rendell", "text": ""}
{"id": "732556", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732556", "title": "Lady Rendell", "text": ""}
{"id": "732558", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732558", "title": "Baroness Kennedy of the Shaws", "text": ""}
{"id": "732559", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732559", "title": "Lady Kennedy of the Shaws", "text": ""}
{"id": "732562", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732562", "title": "Lady Kennedy of The Shaws", "text": ""}
{"id": "732563", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732563", "title": "Lady Maddock", "text": ""}
{"id": "732564", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732564", "title": "VSTM", "text": ""}
{"id": "732566", "revid": "19244234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732566", "title": "Vilnius Minties Gymnasium", "text": "Vilnius \"Minties\" gymnasium () is a 4-year high school in Lazdynai microdistrict, Vilnius, Lithuania. It focuses on teaching mathematics and informatics.\nIt was built in 1974 and was named as the 40th Vilnius high school. In 1994 it was renamed as \"Minties\" (English: \"thought\") high school. In 2003 it was decided to turn the school into a four-year gymnasium. In 2005, 92 students graduated and 83% of them continue their education at various universities and colleges. About 80 teachers work in the gymnasium."}
{"id": "732567", "revid": "288189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732567", "title": "Lady Scotland of Asthal", "text": ""}
{"id": "732569", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732569", "title": "William Wentworth, 2nd Earl of Strafford", "text": "William Wentworth, 2nd Earl of Strafford (8 June 1626 \u2013 16 October 1695), KG, of Wentworth Woodhouse in Yorkshire, was a prominent landowner.\nOrigins.\nHe was born at Wentworth Woodhouse, the only surviving son of Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford (d.1641) by his second wife Arabella Holles, a daughter of John Holles, 1st Earl of Clare. His mother died in childbirth when he was five years old, after which his father remarried to Elizabeth Rhodes, who was a kindly stepmother to William and his sisters.\nCareer.\nHe studied at Trinity College Dublin. When his father was executed for treason in 1641, William left England for several years, mainly for fear of reprisals (although most of his father's enemies bore no ill-will to his widow or children), and lived for a while in France. He is said to have acted as a Royalist agent in Germany and Denmark, in partnership with Henry Coventry, which ended in a bitter quarrel, and a duel.\nIn 1652 he was allowed to return to England on taking an oath of abjuration. In 1662 the bill of attainder against his father was reversed by Parliament, and he regained the title of Earl of Strafford and was invested as a Knight of the Garter in 1661. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1668 but was expelled in 1685.\nHe led a rather \"obscure, undistinguished and uninteresting life\", however his 1667 speech in the House of Lords was praiseworthy, protesting against the banishment of Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon, on the grounds that no crime had been proved against him; his attitude is the more creditable since Clarendon had been one of his father's bitterest enemies. He became a member of the Privy Council in 1674, and attended the crucial meeting in 1678 when Titus Oates first revealed his fabricated Popish Plot. During the Exclusion Crisis he supported the future King James II, and made a point of calling on him when James travelled through Yorkshire on his way to Scotland in 1679.\nHe may be summed up as \"rather indolent and lacking in character\", but was much loved by his family, especially by his father, whose last letter was to \"dearest Will\" from \"a father that tenderly loves you\".\nMarriages.\nHe married twice:\nDeath and legacy.\nHe died in Yorkshire on 16 October 1695, aged 69, and was buried in York Minster.\nStrafford County, New Hampshire in the United States is named in his honour.\nSuccession.\nHaving no children nor surviving brothers, the earldom became extinct, but his title of Baron Raby was inherited by his first cousin once-removed Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford (1672-1739), the grandson of a younger brother of the 1st Earl, who became Earl of Strafford in a new creation. His vast estates, however, including Wentworth Woodhouse, passed to his younger nephew Thomas Watson, the third son of his sister Anne Wentworth, who in accordance with the bequest adopted the additional surname of Wentworth."}
{"id": "732570", "revid": "35515797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732570", "title": "Lady Nicholson of Winterbourne", "text": ""}
{"id": "732574", "revid": "41796680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732574", "title": "Pentadic numerals", "text": "Pentadic numerals are a notation for presenting numbers, usually by inscribing in wood or stone. The notation has been used in Scandinavia, usually in conjunction to runes.\nThe notation is similar to the older Roman numerals for numbers up to 9 (\u2013). Unlike the Roman notation, the ticks are placed vertically on a stem or of the rune. The number 4 is represented by four horizontal lines on the stem, 5 is represented by what looks like an inverted letter U. 10 is represented by two U's opposing each other. Numbers up to 19, or even 20, can be represented by a combination of I's and U's.\nHistory.\nThe widest use of the notation is in presenting the golden numbers, 1\u201319 on runic calendars, also known as \"clogs\"). The numbers are commonly found in Modern Age and possibly Early Modern Age. It is unknown if they were in use in the Middle Ages, let alone in the Viking Age. On older runic calendar, a different notation for representing the golden numbers was used; the 16 letters of Younger Futhark represented the numbers from 1 to 16 with three special runes used for the numbers 17 to 19. The \"Computus Runicus\", originally from 1343 put collected and published by Ole Worm in the 17th century used this notation.\nMost runic texts, including the Viking age runestones use no number system, instead numbers are simply spelled out.\nPositional notation.\nIn some peculiar instances runic numbers have been used as numerals in an base ten positional system, similar to the Arabic numbers. It is unknown if this use existed before the 19th century.\nThe oldest authenticated use is in the notes of an 18-year-old journeyman tailor, Edward Larsson, the contain the date 1885 in runes. A copy of the note was published by the Institute for Dialectology, Onomastics and Folklore Research in Ume\u00e5 in 2004.\nThis positional notation however appears on two unrelated sets of rune stones allegedly discovered in North America. The first is the Kensington Runestone found in 1898, the second are the three Spirit Pond runestones found in 1971. Both refer to pre-Columbian Norse exploration of the Americas but are modern day hoaxes."}
{"id": "732577", "revid": "51703956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732577", "title": "Sixth Term Examination Paper", "text": "The Sixth Term Examination Paper (commonly referred to as STEP) is a university Mathematics-based admissions test for undergraduate courses with significant mathematical content, most notably for applying to study Mathematics at the University of Cambridge. Since 2024, STEP was administered by OCR, replacing CAAT, who was responsible for administering STEP in previous years. Being after the reply date for universities in the UK, STEP is typically taken as part of a conditional offer for an undergraduate place. There are also a small number of candidates who sit STEP as a challenge. The papers are designed to test ability to answer questions similar in style to undergraduate Mathematics.\nThe official users of STEP in Mathematics at present are the University of Cambridge, Imperial College London, and the University of Warwick. Since the 2025 entry application cycle, the STEP exams have been superseded by the TMUA exam at Imperial College London and the University of Warwick. Candidates applying to study mathematics at the University of Cambridge are almost always required to take STEP as part of the terms of their conditional offer. In addition, other courses at Cambridge with a large mathematics component, such as Economics and Engineering, occasionally require STEP. Candidates applying to study Mathematics or closely related subjects at the University of Warwick can take STEP as part of their offer. Imperial College London may require it for Computing applicants as well as Mathematics applicants who either did not take MAT or achieved a borderline score in it.\nA typical STEP offer for a candidate applying to read mathematics at the University of Cambridge would be at least a grade 1 in both STEP 2 and STEP 3, though \u2013 depending on individual circumstances \u2013 some colleges may only require a grade 1 in either STEP. Candidates applying to the University of Warwick to read mathematics, or joint subjects such as MORSE, can use a grade 2 from either STEP as part of their offer. Imperial typically requires a grade 2 in STEP 2 and/or STEP 3.\nHistory.\nBefore 2003, STEP was available for a wide range of subjects. In 1989, for instance, the full list of subjects offered was: Biology, Chemistry, Economics, English Literature, French, General Studies, Geography, Geology, German, Greek, History, Italian, Latin, Mathematics, Further Mathematics, Music, Physics, Religious Studies, Russian, and Spanish. STEP in Mathematics is the only one now in use. Two (three prior to the discontinuation of STEP 1 in 2019) STEP in Mathematics are set each year, and are both sat during the school summer examination cycle (usually in June).\nFormat.\nUntil 2019, there were three STEPs: STEP 1, STEP 2 and STEP 3. Since the academic year 2019/20, STEP 1 has been phased out. There was no STEP 1 set in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and it was later announced that from 2021, STEP 1 would no longer be set, with only STEP 2 and STEP 3 being available. The last STEP 1 was held in 2019.\nCandidates may enter for as many as they wish, although this is often dictated by the STEP offers they hold. Each paper offers a selection of questions and there is no restriction on which can be answered. For each paper, candidates have three hours to complete their solutions. Whilst students are permitted to answer as many questions as they choose, they are advised to attempt no more than six, and their final grade is based on their six best question solutions. Each question is worth 20 marks, and so the maximum a candidate can score is 120.\nFor examinations up to and including the 2018 papers, the specification for STEP 1 and STEP 2 was based on Mathematics A Level content while the syllabus for STEP 3 was based on Further Mathematics A Level. The questions on STEP 2 and 3 were about the same difficulty. Both STEP 2 and STEP 3 are harder than STEP 1.\nFor the 2019 examinations onwards, the specifications have been updated to reflect the reforms in A Level Mathematics and Further Mathematics; in addition, the number of questions in each paper has been reduced. Specifically:\nPracticalities.\nSince June 2009, graph paper has not been allowed in STEP as the test requires only sketches, not detailed graphs. Instead, all graphs should be sketched inside the answer booklets provided as part of a candidate's solution.\nSince June 2018, the format of the answer booklet for the STEP Mathematics examinations has been updated to ensure that the paper is fully anonymised before it is marked. Candidates are issued with a 44-page booklet, of which 40 pages are available for writing out solutions and for rough work. Only one booklet per candidate is allowed unless a further booklet is required and has been formally requested as a result of specific access arrangements.\nCandidates are advised to write their answers in black ink and draw pictures in pencil, although some flexibility is permitted with this. Candidates should not use green or red pen at any stage.\nCalculators may not be used during STEP. Rulers, protractors, and compasses can be taken into the examination. Candidates who don't have English as a first language were allowed to use bilingual dictionaries until 2023; these are now no longer permitted.\nA formulae booklet was available to all candidates for all examinations up to and including those in 2018. As of 2019, candidates are no longer be issued with a formulae booklet; instead they will be expected to recall, or know how to derive quickly, standard formulae. All the required standard formulae are given in an appendix to the new specification.\nMarking.\nSTEP is marked by teams of mathematicians specially trained for the purpose. All the markers have Mathematics degrees and most are reading for PhDs at Cambridge. Each question is marked by a small team who coordinate to ensure their question is marked fairly and that all correct solutions are given appropriate marks. Markers are closely supervised by a team of marking supervisors, usually senior teachers, who are responsible for the mark scheme and by a senior Mathematics assessment expert.\nAll non-crossed-out work is assessed and a candidate's final score is based on their six highest scoring solutions. \nAll papers are checked at least twice to ensure that all of a candidate's non-crossed-out solutions have been assessed. A candidate's marks are then independently entered twice into a database to ensure that there are no clerical errors in mark recording. The mark data is then checked a further time by a small team who hand check a random selection of scripts.\nScoring.\nThere are five possible grades awarded. From best to worst, these are 'S' (Outstanding), '1', '2', '3', and 'U' (Unclassified). The rule of thumb is that four good answers (to a reasonable level of completion) will gain a grade 1; more may gain an S, and fewer will gain a correspondingly lower grade. The grade boundaries shift from year to year, and the boundaries for STEP 3 are generally lower than those for STEP 2.\nAll STEP questions are marked out of 20. The mark scheme for each question is designed to reward candidates who make good progress towards a solution. A candidate reaching the correct answer will receive full marks, regardless of the method used to answer the question.\nAll the questions that are attempted by a student and not crossed out will be assessed. However, only the six best answers will be used in the calculation of the final grade for the paper, giving a total maximum mark of 120.\nTiming and results.\nSTEP is normally sat at a candidate's school or college. Alternatively, the test can be taken at any test centre authorised to run STEP. Entries for STEP are typically accepted from the start of March until the end of April and late entries (with late entry fees) accepted until mid-May. STEP is taken in mid-to-late June, with online results available in mid-August, issued on the same date as A Level results, typically at midnight.\nUsage.\nThere is some variation in how institutions make use of the results \u2013 candidates can contact the relevant institution(s) for more information. However, STEP is typically taken post-interview and the results used to supplement candidates' exam results. For applicants to the University of Cambridge, candidates' scripts are made available to admissions officers. This enables officers to make judgements on the basis of candidates' actual work, rather than on just their marks or grade.\nPreparation.\nSTEP does not require a lot of extra knowledge as they are designed to test skills and knowledge of topics within the A Level syllabus; however, preparation is advised as questions are significantly more challenging than those found in standard A Level examinations. Ideally, students should begin preparation from the summer preceding the academic year of the STEP series they intend to sit.\nPractice materials, including past papers, example solutions, and a STEP formula booklet, are available for free from the Cambridge Assessment Admissions Testing website. The STEP support programme provides modules for individual additional study, along with hints and solutions. Furthermore, the book \"Advanced Problems in Mathematics: Preparing for University\" by Stephen Siklos, a former paper-setter for STEP, has been specifically written for students preparing for it."}
{"id": "732578", "revid": "36339275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732578", "title": "Sainte-Julie, Quebec", "text": "Sainte-Julie (; originally Sainte-Julie-de-Verch\u00e8res), is an off-island suburb of Montreal, in southwestern Quebec, Canada, east of Montreal in Marguerite-D'Youville Regional County Municipality. The population as of the Canada 2021 Census was 30,045. In 2009 Sainte-Julie was called one of the best towns in which to live in Quebec, and the city is often known as \"The Happiest City in Quebec\" (French: \"La ville la plus heureuse du Qu\u00e9bec\").\nHistory.\nThe territory of Sainte-Julie, was part of the parish of Sainte-Anne-de-Varennes and was informally known as \"Grand Coteau\". These settlers mostly came from Boucherville.\nSoon residents, finding the Sainte-Anne-de-Varennes parish too far away, asked to establish their own parish in 1843. In 1850 they received authorization and built a church on land belonging to Julie Gauthier dite St-Germain, who asked that the name of the patron Sainte-Julie be given to the parish after Julia of Corsica, a virgin martyr from the fifth century A.D.\nOn May 6, 1851, a civil proclamation recognized the parish municipality of Sainte-Julie. In the fall of 1851, there were more than 190 families and 1,251 people in Sainte-Julie, according to the federal census.\nOn July 1, 1885, the municipality of Sainte-Julie was officially created and obtained the right to legally elect, its first mayor, Jules Choquet. The first village school was built in 1885, located on Rue Principale at the intersection of Boulevard Saint-Joseph.\nDisaster struck the municipality in 1929 with the collapse of the upper floor of a grain shed: four people lose their lives.\nIn the mid-1960s, the construction of the Quebec Autoroute 20 further stimulated the development of Sainte-Julie, which became a rapidly developing suburb south of Montreal. The 1960s were also marked by the protest against the smoke produced by the asphalt plan of the Desourdy company and the damage caused to Mont-Saint-Bruno. Also, in 1968, A CF-100 warplane from the Saint-Hubert ARC base crashes into a house on Rue F\u00e9lix-Leclerc.\nSainte-Julie gained city status in 1971. The same year, the biggest snowstorm of the century paralyzes part of the city for several days.\nThe 1980s marks the inauguration of the public transportation system between Sainte-Julie and the Longueuil metro station, giving citizen a direct access to the Montreal transit system. Also, a fire at the PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls) warehouse in Saint-Basile-le-Grand forces the evacuation of part of the population.\nGeography.\nSainte-Julie is located on the south shore of Montr\u00e9al. The city is well connected to the nearby cities of Montr\u00e9al and Longueuil by the highways 20 and 30\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Sainte-Julie had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nAttractions.\nHydro-Quebec's electricity interpretation centre, \u00c9lectrium, is located in Sainte-Julie. La Vall\u00e9e du Richelieu Golf Club's Verch\u00e8res course is also located in the city.\nGovernment.\nThe mayor of Sainte-Julie is Mario Lemay. There are eight city councillors, all of which of members of La voix des citoyens\u00a0\u2014 \u00c9quipe Mario Lemay, as of the 2021 Sainte-Julie municipal election.\nSainte-Julie is part of the federal electoral district of Montarville, which is represented by St\u00e9phane Bergeron of the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois. It is also part of the provincial electoral district of Verch\u00e8res, which is represented by Suzanne Dansereau of the Coalition Avenir Qu\u00e9bec.\nInfrastructure.\nThe Sainte-Julie public transit system provides commuter and local bus services.\nQuebec Autoroute 20, Quebec Autoroute 30 and Quebec Route 229 cross the city.\nEducation.\nSecondary education is provided at the public secondary school of Grand-C\u00f4teau.\nThe South Shore Protestant Regional School Board previously served the municipality."}
{"id": "732580", "revid": "16543852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732580", "title": "Sixth Term Examination Papers", "text": ""}
{"id": "732581", "revid": "3145267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732581", "title": "Henoch-Schonlein purpura", "text": ""}
{"id": "732582", "revid": "7611264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732582", "title": "STEP", "text": ""}
{"id": "732583", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732583", "title": "Lajermmerais Regional County Municipality, Quebec", "text": ""}
{"id": "732584", "revid": "8886066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732584", "title": "Louis II of Anjou", "text": "Louis II (5 October 1377 \u2013 29 April 1417) was Duke of Anjou and Count of Provence from 1384 to 1417; he claimed the Kingdom of Naples, but only ruled parts of the kingdom from 1390 to 1399. His father, Louis I of Anjouthe founder of the House of Valois-Anjouwas a younger son of King John II of France and the adopted son of Queen Joanna I of Naples. When his father died during a military campaign in Naples in 1384, Louis II was still a child. He inherited Anjou from his father, but his mother, Marie of Blois, could not convince his uncles, John, Duke of Berry and Philip II, Duke of Burgundy, to continue her husband's war for Naples. The Proven\u00e7al nobles and towns refused to acknowledge Louis II as their lawful ruler, but Marie of Blois persuaded them one after another to swear fealty to him between 1385 and 1387.\nHis cousin, King Charles VI of France, decided to support Louis II's bid for Naples in 1389. After Antipope Clement VII crowned him king in Avignon on 1 November 1389, Louis II moved to Naples. His troops could not occupy the whole kingdom, thus it was practically divided between Louis II and his opponent, Ladislaus of Naples. The conflict between Clement VII's successor, Antipope Benedict XIII, and France weakened Louis' position and Ladislaus forced him to leave Naples for Provence in 1399.\nEarly life.\nLouis was the elder of the two sons of Louis I of Anjou and Marie of Blois. Louis I was a younger son of King John II of France who granted Anjou and Maine to him as hereditary appanage in 1360. The childless Queen Joanna I of Naples adopted Louis I as her son and heir in 1380, because she needed French support against her rival, Charles of Durazzo. The rulers of Naples had acknowledged the popes' suzerainty since 1130, but two rival popes were competing for the supreme authority after the Western Schism of 1378. Joanna's subjects regarded Urban VI as the lawful pope, but she preferred Urban's opponent, Clement VII. In retaliation, Pope Urban confirmed Charles' claim to her realms and crowned him king of Naples (formally, king of Sicily) in Rome in June 1381. Charles of Durazzo invaded southern Italy, but Louis I could not leave France to protect his adoptive mother, because his brother, King Charles V of France had recently died. Charles of Durazzo captured Queen Joanna and occupied Naples in September.\nLouis I was determined to seize her inheritance, which included the counties of Provence and Forcalquier and a claim to the Kingdom of Jerusalem in addition to Naples. The earliest plans about Louis' marriage were related to his father's search for allies against Charles of Durazzo. In November 1381, Louis I was planning to forge an alliance with Aragon through the marriage of Louis and Louis' younger brother, Charles, with King Peter IV of Aragon's granddaughters, Joanna and Yolande. The plan was soon set aside, because Louis I realized that an alliance with a powerful Italian ruler could serve his purposes. After in early 1382 he decided to launch a military campaign against Charles of Durazzo, he started negotiations with Bernab\u00f2 Visconti, Lord of Milan. Bernab\u00f2 agreed to hire troops to fight against Charles of Durazzo and engaged his daughter, Lucia, to Louis on 13 March 1382.\nLouis I had meanwhile come to Avignon where Clement VII crowned him king. He took possession of Provence and Forcalquier, allowing his mercenaries to freely loot the two counties. His military campaign decided Queen Joanna's fate, because Charles of Durazzo ordered her jailers to smother her in July. Louis I crossed the borders of the Kingdom of Naples in September, but Charles of Durazzo avoid to give a pitched battle. Louis I's most mercenaries deserted by the end of 1382, forcing him to offer to abandon his claim to Naples in return for Provence, but Charles of Durazzo rejected his offer. The seven-year-old Louis, who was staying in Anjou, sent a ring to Lucia Visconti to Milan in token of their engagement on 6 May 1384. He was styled as Duke of Calabria in the letter.\nLouis I died in Bari on 20 September 1384. In his last will, he asked Clement VII to support his son to seize the Kingdom of Naples. He appointed Enguerrand VII of Coucy to administer the occupied parts of the kingdom as viceroy, stipulating that his widow could only remove Coucy with the consent of his brothers (John, Duke of Berry and Philip II, Duke of Burgundy) and their nephew, King Charles VI of France.\nReign.\nMinority.\nLouis was only seven when his father died. His mother tried to persuade Louis' uncles Philip II of Burgundy and John of Berry to continue the military campaign against Naples. Bernab\u00f2 Visconti supported her efforts, but both dukes refused to spend more money on the unsuccessful enterprise. The Duke of Burgundy clearly stated that \"all these little ventures\" should be forgotten. Bernab\u00f2 Visconti was arrested by his nephew Gian Galeazzo Visconti on 6 May 1385, which put an end to negotiations about the marriage of his daughter and Louis.\nMost towns and noblemen supported Charles of Durazzo in Provence and Forcelquier. They entered into a formal alliance against Louis and his mother in Aix-en-Provence. Marie, who was determined to restore their rule in the two wealthy counties, hurried to Marseille. Louis accompanied his mother and they jointly received the oaths of fealty of the three highest-ranking magistrates of the town on 24 August 1385. In return, they ceremoniously pledged that they would always observe the burghers' liberties. Marie entered into negotiations with the members of the League of Aix and persuaded them one by one to accept Louis' rule during the following two years.\nCharles of Durazzo fell victim to a plot while laying claim to Hungary in February 1386. His ten-year-old son, Ladislaus, succeeded him under the guardianship of his mother, Margaret of Durazzo. Urban VI's successor, Pope Boniface IX, confirmed Ladislaus' right to rule the Kingdom of Naples. Marie of Blois started negotiations about Louis' marriage with Ladislaus' sister, Joanna, but Louis flatly refused to marry the daughter of his father's principal enemy in May 1387. Louis' supporters took possession of the town of Naples, but his adversaries were able to retain the two most important fortresses, the Castel Nuovo and Castel Sant'Elmo.\nCharles VI of France reached the age of majority, dismissed the dukes of Burgundy and Berry and decided to provide support to Louis. He knighted Louis and his brother, Charles, at Saint-Denis Abbey in Paris in May 1389. The celebrations which lasted for a week were \"carefully stage-managed propaganda for the royal house, deliberately contrived to show its fortunes in the hands of a younger generation\", according to historian Jonathan Sumption. He promised to grant 300,000 florins to Louis to finance a military campaign to southern Italy. (Anti)pope Clement VII soon promised to pay further 500,000 florins to Louis. Charles VI announced his decision to the burghers of Naples in a letter that was read out in the Naples Cathedral soon after the ritual liquefaction of the blood of Saint Januarius.\nNaples.\nAntipope Clement VII crowned Louis king in the chapel of the Popes' Palace in Avignon on 1 November 1389. Charles VI of France and his younger brother, Louis of Touraine, were also present at the ceremony, demonstrating their support to Louis. Gian Galeazzo Visconti also joined their alliance.\nLouis and his fleet of about 40 galleys sailed from Marseille in July 1390 and reached the Bay of Naples on 6 August. His troops captured the Castel Sant'Elmo in October, and the Castel Nuovo weeks later. Clement VII's legate, Cardinal Pierre de Thury, who had accompanied Louis to Naples, administered the kingdom efficiently on his behalf. Louis was engaged to King John I of Aragon's daughter, Yolande. Clement VII provided regular financial support to Louis whose troops achieved a series of major victories and captured Amalfi and Ravello in 1392. Most Calabrian barons (including the heads of the powerful Sanseverino and Ruffo families) also swore fealty to him by the autumn of 1392. In practice, the Kingdom of Naples was divided between Louis and Ladislaus.\nCharles VI of France showed the first symptoms of madness on 5 August 1392, which enabled Philip II of Burgundy to strengthen his position at the French royal court. In November, Visconti sent an envoy to Paris to persuade the French to launch further military campaigns to Italy. Louis of Turenne, who had received the Duchy of Orl\u00e9ans from Charles VI, supported the plan, because he wanted to conquer large parts of the Papal States for himself; his maternal uncle, Louis II, Duke of Bourbon, also decided to lead a French army to Naples to support Louis. However, negotiations with their potential Italian allies and Clement VII proved that their goals could hardly be achieved, because of the lack of sufficient financial support.\nClement VII died unexpectedly in Avignon on 16 September 1394. Charles VI and his counsellors wanted to put an end to the schism and asked Clement VII's cardinals not to elect a new pope. The cardinals ignored their request and elected an Aragonese cardinal who took the name Benedict XIII. Louis supported Benedict, but the French prelates decided to enforce the abdication of both popes at their general assembly in Paris on 2 February 1395. Louis of Orl\u00e9ans was determined to continue the military operations in Italy, but Charles VI's wife, Isabeau of Bavaria, and Philip II of Burgundy convinced him to withdraw his troops from Italy in late February.\nThe conflict between France and Benedict XIII weakened Louis' position and Ladislaus could take advantage of his difficulties. When analysing their situation, historian Alan Ryder concludes that Louis revealed a \"character devoid of leadership\" and Ladislaus displayed that \"acumen and ruthlessness which were to make him the terror of Italy\". Louis' real authority was restricted to the city of Naples, because the Calabrian barons only formally acknowledged his rule. Charles VI of France openly abandoned Louis' case when he signed a treaty with Florence, promising not to intervene in Naples.\nThe French clergy withdrew from the obedience to Benedict XIII and a French army laid siege to Avignon in July 1398. The legitimacy of Louis's rule in Naples derived from his coronation by Benedict XIII's predecessor, but his mother who administered Provence was to support the French action. Deprived of his revenues from France, Benedict XIII was no more able to finance Louis's troops in Naples. The Apulian barons rose up against Louis, forcing him to launch a military campaign to Apulia in February 1399. The Sanseverini abandoned him and his absence from Naples enabled Ladislaus to seize the town on 10 July. Louis could not continue the fight and left southern Italy for Provence in the same month.\nIn France.\nLouis married his first cousin once removed Yolande of Aragon at the St. Trophime Cathedral in Arles on 2 December 1400. On the same day, she was crowned queen. This gave him a possibility of inheriting the throne of Aragon through her right. Her father, King John I of Aragon had died in 1396, and her uncle king Martin I of Aragon died in 1410.\nLouis founded a university in Aix-en-Provence in 1409.\nIn 1409, Louis liberated Rome from Ladislaus' occupation; in 1410, as an ally of the antipope John XXIII he attacked Ladislaus and defeated him at Roccasecca (1411). Eventually Louis lost his Neapolitan support and had to retire. His claim to Naples passed to his son, Louis III.\nHis son, Louis, was initially betrothed to Catherine of Burgundy, a daughter of John the Fearless, Duke of Burgundy. However, after the Duke of Burgundy instigated a mob attack on the Dauphin of France, Louis and his wife joined the Armagnac Faction. The betrothal to Catherine was repudiated, which caused the enmity of the Duke of Burgundy.\nHe was not present at the Battle of Agincourt, because he had a bladder infection. After the battle, he fled from Paris to join his wife and children at Angers.\nLouis II died at his chateau of Angers, the county town of Anjou; he is buried there.\nFamily.\nLouis and Yolande had five surviving children:"}
{"id": "732587", "revid": "141808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732587", "title": "Women's Basketball Hall of Fame", "text": "The Women's Basketball Hall of Fame honors those who have contributed to the sport of women's basketball. The Hall of Fame opened in 1999 in Knoxville, Tennessee, USA. It is the only facility of its kind dedicated to all levels of women's basketball. Knoxville is known for having a large women's basketball following as well as being the home of the University of Tennessee's Lady Vols basketball team previously coached by women's coach Pat Summitt, who was part of the first class inducted. With the 2017 Induction, the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame celebrated its 19th anniversary and added six new members to its hall, honoring 157 inductees.\nInductees may be nominated in the following categories: Coach, Veteran Coach, Player, International Player, Veteran Player, Contributor, and Official.\nHighlights.\nWomen's Basketball Hall of Fame campus.\nThe Women's Basketball Hall of Fame is home to the world's largest basketball sitting on the north rotunda of the hall, measuring 30 feet tall and weighing 10 tons.\nThe WBHOF Basketball Courts in the north rotunda of the hall allow one to test one's basketball skills on three different courts representing the hall's mission statement of \"honoring the past, celebrating the present, and promoting the future\" of women's basketball. The courts also are home to a timed dribbling course and a passing skills area. There is also a photo area where you can pretend to be players from different eras in history.\nPat Summitt.\nPat Summitt Rotunda is located at the entrance of the WBHOF. This area remembers founding board member and Class of 1999 inductee Pat Summitt.\nThe courtyard outside of the Pat Summitt Rotunda is shaped like a basketball and is made of numerous bricks with personalized inscriptions. Many of the bricks are engraved to honor guests, inductees and a host of other who have chosen to leave their legacy at the hall of fame.\nHall of Honor.\nThe Hall of Honor is the location within the Hall of Fame that recognizes the achievements of each of the inductees.\nEastman Statue.\nThe Eastman Statue, sculpted by Elizabeth MacQueen, is erected at the entrance to the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame. This 17-foot-tall bronze statue exemplifies Women's Basketball Hall of Fame's mission to \"honor the past, celebrate the present and promote the future\" of women's basketball. Each year, the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame presents its current class of Inductees with a replica of the Eastman statue, known as the \"Eastman\".\nTrailblazers of the Game.\nAll American Red Heads.\nThe All American Red Heads played for 50 years, from 1936 to 1986 which is still the longest running women's professional team. The Red Heads were founded by Mr. and Mrs.C. M. Olson in Cassville, Missouri. C. M. Olson was the former coach-owner of a male exhibition basketball team called Olson's Terrible Swedes. Known for their on-court antics, this inspired C. M. Olson's wife, Doyle, and the women who worked in her beauty salons to form a professional basketball exhibition team. In 1954, Coach Orwell Moore and his wife Lorene \"Butch\" Moore bought the Red heads and moved the team to Caraway, Arkansas. Lorene Moore played on the team for eleven years, scoring 35,426 points during her career. The Red Heads were so popular that during the years 1964-1971 there may have been as many as three Red Head teams traveling the country. In 1972, the Red Heads won 500 out of 642 games played against men's team. Throughout the years the All American Red Heads played in all 50 states as well as Mexico, Canada, and the Philippines. The team has been featured in national magazines such as Life, Look, Sports Illustrated and Women's Sports, and they were widely considered as the greatest women's basketball team in the world. Coach Moore retired and disbanded the Red Heads in 1986 after 50 years of play The All American Red Heads still have annual reunions today.\nEdmonton Commercial Graduates Basketball Club.\nThe Edmonton Commercial Graduates Basketball Club was founded in 1915 by John Percy Page. The origins of the club can be traced to the McDougall Commercial Girls High School Basketball team in Edmonton, Canada. When team members graduated high school, they convinced coach John Percy Page to continue the team as a Club sport. Membership with the Club was exclusive, only 38 women ever wore the Grad jersey. Winnie Martin (Tait) was the First Captain of the Edmonton Grads, playing from 1915-1924. The Grads played 522 games officially in Canada, the United States and Europe. The Club tallied a 502-20 record in 25 years of play The Edmonton Commercial Graduates are widely considered the greatest women's team ever assembled. Financially restrained, members often chipped in to raise funds for national play. Their strong dedication to the game and will to persevere in a time when women's basketball was largely ignored makes the Edmonton Grads praiseworthy John Percy Page coached the club to 18 Canadian Championships The Club attended four sets of Olympic Games: Paris in 1924, Amsterdam in 1928, Los Angeles in 1932, and Berlin in 1936 where they received 4 unofficial Olympic titles The Club played its last game on June 5, 1940, defeating a Chicago team 62-52 Dr. James A. Naismith was quoted to say, \"There is no team that I mention more frequently in talking about the game. My admiration is not only for your remarkable record of games won (which itself would make you stand out in the history of basketball) but also for your record of clean play, versatility in meeting teams at their own style, and more especially for your unbroken record of good sportsmanship.\"\nWayland Baptist Flying Queens.\nClaude Hutcherson, a Wayland graduate and owner of Hutcherson Air Service, provided air transportation for the Queens to games in Mexico in 1948. That encounter blossomed into a full sponsorship of the team in 1950, a change that brought with it a new mascot - the Hutcherson Flying Queens. Five decades later, Wayland is still atop the world of women's basketball for they still remain the only women's team in history to win 1,300 games. Long before Connecticut became a dominant power in women's basketball, the Flying Queens of Wayland Baptist thrived on innovation, talent and glamour, playing on athletic scholarships, traveling by private planes, warming up with ostentatious drills learned from the Harlem Globetrotters and winning every game for nearly five seasons. The Wayland Baptist University women's team achieved a 131-game winning streak from November 1953 to March 1958 before losing 46-42 to Nashville Business School. During that time the Flying Queens captured four consecutive AAU national championships.\nMighty Macs.\nThe 1972-74 Mighty Macs team captured the first three Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW) championships. Immaculata is considered the birthplace of modern college women's basketball. In addition, to winning the first three college national championships, the Mighty Macs were the first women's team along with the University of Maryland to appear on National television. They were also the first women's team, along with Queen's College, to play at Madison Square Garden. Their inspirational story was made into a feature-length theatrical movie called The Mighty Macs and released by Sony Pictures in 2011. The 1972-74 teams have produced 3 Women's Basketball Hall of Fame Inductees. Listed are the individuals associated with the three teams; Janet Ruch Boltz, Denise Conway Crawford, Janet Young Eline, Theresa Shank Grentz (Class of 2001), Barbara Deuble Kelly, Tina Krah, Patricia Mulhern Loughran, Judy Marra Martelli, Sue Forsyth O'Grady, Rene Muth Portland, Betty Ann Hoffman Quinn, Cathy Rush (Class of 2000), Mary Scharff, Marianne Crawford Stanley (Class of 2002), Maureen Stuhlman, and Marie Liguori Williams.\nDelta State teams.\nThe 1975, 1976, and 1977 Delta State teams captured three consecutive AIAW championships. After finishing 16\u20132 in the 1973-74 revival season following a 40-year layoff of the women's basketball program, Delta State proceeded to end Immaculata College's three-year AIAW national championship reign in season No. 2 by going undefeated at 28-0. Delta State followed its first AIAW national crown by also winning the next two as the Lady Statesmen defeated Immaculata (69-64) at Penn State and then LSU (68-55) at Minnesota. During their three championship years, Delta State compiled a 93-4 record (28-0, 33-1, 32-3), including a then-record 51 straight wins. The 1975-77 teams have produced 2 Women's Basketball Hall of Fame inductees, Margaret Wade and Lusia Harris Stewart. The WBCA Wade Trophy, considered the Heisman of women's basketball, is named in honor of Lily Margaret Wade. Listed are the individuals associated with the three teams: Angel Fortenberry, Ann Logue, Beth Trussell, Cornelia Ward, Debbie Brock, Jackie Caston, Janie Evans, Jill Rhodes, Judy Davis, Kathy Lewis, Key Crump, Laurie Ann Harper, Lusia Harris Stewart (Class of 1999), Lynn Adubato, Mandy Fortenberyy, Margaret Wade (Class of 1999), Mary Logue, Melissa Thames, Melissa Ward, Mimi Williams, Pam Piazza, Ramona von Boeckman, Sheri Haynes, Tish Fahey, Virginia Shackelford, and Wanda Hairston.\nUSA Women's Basketball teams.\nThe 1976 USA Women's Basketball team captured the United States' first medal in Olympic women's basketball history winning the silver medal. The USA's silver medal finish served a notice to the rest of the world that the United States would be a force in Olympic women's basketball. Since the 1976 Olympics, the USA Women's Basketball Teams have compiled a record of 55 and 1 and captured 7 gold medals and 1 bronze in Olympic play. The 1976 USA Olympic Women's Basketball Team paved the way for United States dominance. The 1976 team has produced 11 Women's Basketball Hall of Fame Inductees. Ann Meyers Drysdale (Class of 1999), Nancy Lieberman (Class of 1999), Billie Moore (Class of 1999), Pat Summitt (Class of 1999), Mary Anne O'Conner, Lusia Harris Stewart (Class of 1999), Gail Marquis, Nancy Dunkle (Class of 2000), Sue Gunter (Class of 2000), Patricia Roberts (Class of 2000), Sue Rojcewicz (Class of 2000), Charlotte Lewis, Juliene Simpson (Class of 2000), Cindy Brogdon (Class of 2002), Jeanne Rowlands, Gail Weldon.\nThe 1996 USA Olympic Basketball Team dominated its competition to reclaim the Olympic gold medal in Atlanta. Rolling to an 8-0 Olympic mark, the USA, which began training on October 2, 1995, compiled a 52-0 record during its pre-Olympic competition to finish with an overall 60-0 record. More popular than any previous women's basketball team, the USA drew a record 202,556 fans during the Olympics for an average of 25,320 a game. The 1996 Olympic Team includes 10 Women's Basketball Hall of Fame Inductees. Jennifer Azzi (Class of 2009), Ruthie Bolton (Class of 2011), Teresa Edwards (Class of 2010), Venus Lacey, Lisa Leslie (Class of 2015), Rebecca Lobo (Class of 2010), Katrina McClain (Class of 2006), Nikki McCray (Class of 2012), Carla McGhee, Dawn Staley (Class of 2012), Katy Steding, Sheryl Swoopes (Class of 2017), Tara VanDerveer (Class of 2002), Ceal Barry, Nancy Darsch, Marian Washington (Class of 2004), Bruce Moseley, Gina Konin Larence\nHelm Foundation.\nThe Helms Foundation was established in 1936 and created by Bill Schroeder and Paul Helms to select national championship teams and All-American teams in a number of college sports, including women's basketball. The Panel met annually to vote on a National Champion and retroactively ranked basketball back to 1901. When Paul Helms died in 1957, United Savings and Loan became the Helms Foundation's benefactor and eventually became known as the Citizens Savings Athletic Foundation. The Foundation officially dissolved in 1982. Thirteen Helms Foundation members are also Women's Basketball Hall of Fame Inductees: Alline Banks (Sprouse), Joan Crawford, Lyrlyne Greer, Rita Horkey, Doris Rogers, Margaret Sexton, Hazel Walker, Katherine Washington, Nera White, John Head, Claude Hutcherson, Harley Redin, and Lometa Odom.\nInductees.\nClass of 2026 (scheduled).\nSource:"}
{"id": "732588", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732588", "title": "Madam Rosmerta", "text": ""}
{"id": "732589", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732589", "title": "Hutchinson's teeth", "text": "Hutchinson's teeth is a sign of congenital syphilis. Affected people have teeth that are smaller and more widely spaced than normal and which have notches on their biting surfaces. \nIt is named for Sir Jonathan Hutchinson, a British surgeon and pathologist, who first described it.\nHutchinson's teeth form part of Hutchinson's triad."}
{"id": "732590", "revid": "2824367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732590", "title": "Talbot", "text": "Talbot is a dormant automobile marque introduced in 1902 by British-French company Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot. The founders, Charles Chetwynd-Talbot, 20th Earl of Shrewsbury and Adolphe Cl\u00e9ment-Bayard, reduced their financial interests in their Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot business during the First World War.\nSoon after the end of the war, Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot was brought into an Anglo-French combine named STD Motors (Sunbeam, Talbot and Darracq). Shortly afterward, STD Motors' French products were renamed Talbot instead of Darracq.\nIn the mid-1930s, with the collapse of STD Motors, Rootes bought the London Talbot factory and Antonio Lago bought the Paris Talbot factory, Lago producing vehicles under the marques Talbot and Talbot-Lago. Rootes renamed Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot Sunbeam-Talbot in 1938, and stopped using the brand name Talbot in the mid-1950s. The Paris factory closed a few years later.\nOwnership of the marque \u2013 which through a convoluted series of takeovers saw it exist in two different forms by both the Rootes Group and Simca \u2013 and with both these companies coming under the ownership of Chrysler Corporation in the 1960s, it eventually fell into the ownership of PSA Peugeot Citro\u00ebn after it acquired the ailing Chrysler Europe from its American parent in 1978. PSA revived the use of the Talbot marque from 1979 until 1994; applying it to the former Chrysler Europe products. \nThe rights to the Talbot marque are presently owned by Groupe PSA's successor, Stellantis.\nTalbot London.\nCl\u00e9ment-Talbot was founded in 1903. The first products were cars that were London-assembled mechanical components of French Cl\u00e9ment-Bayard cars but the French components were soon replaced by British parts. The brand-name was reduced to Talbot after the first year.\nSTD Motors.\nIn December 1919, Darracq of London with its factory in Suresnes, Paris, bought the entire capital of Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot and later bought Sunbeam and renamed itself STD Motors. Those initials referred to Sunbeam, Talbot and Darracq. But in the depth of the Great Depression, STD Motors became unable to pay its debts. Its subsidiaries managed to find buyers and in 1936 STD Motors ceased to exist.\nTalbot London under STD Motors.\nCl\u00e9ment-Talbot continued to be known for the design and quality of its products and it remained profitable during the depression. Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot was bought by Rootes Group and later renamed Sunbeam-Talbot. Then Sunbeam alone twenty years after that.\nTalbot Paris under STD Motors.\nIn 1920, Suresnes products were branded Talbot-Darracq but the word Darracq was dropped in 1922. If exported to England Paris-made Talbots were rebadged Darracq or Talbot-Darracq.\nDragged down by the 1924 borrowing to pay for the Sunbeam racing programme, STD Motors and Automobiles Talbot France suffered a financial collapse in late 1934.\nTalbot London under the Rootes brothers.\nFollowing the financial collapse of its parent, STD Motors, Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot remained financially sound with readily marketable products. Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot was bought by Rootes Securities and continued to manufacture the same catalogue of vehicles quietly introducing components from Hillman and Humber cars. As the genuine Talbot parts bins emptied, a modified Hillman Aero Minx was introduced to the production line and given the Talbot brand name.\nIn 1938, this Talbot Ten and its stable mates were badged Sunbeam-Talbot and owner, Cl\u00e9ment-Talbot's, name changed to fit.\nTalbot Paris under Antonio Lago.\nFollowing the financial collapse of STD Motors and Paris's Automobiles Talbot, Antonio Lago, the Suresnes' manager, arranged a management buyout of the French operation.\nAntonio Lago involved Talbot in sports car and Grand Prix racing as well as producing high quality luxury cars. In the postwar world of austerity the French government introduced punitive annual taxation on cars with engines larger than 2.6-litres and Talbot sales were severely restricted. Lago continued the Talbot business until 1958 when the factory doors were closed.\nThe dormant Talbot marque was sold to Simca. Simca was gradually acquired by Chrysler Corporation between 1963 and 1970 \u2013 which effectively brought the two Talbot brands together since Chrysler Europe already owned the Rootes Group. PSA Peugeot Citro\u00ebn acquired the still dormant Talbot marque when it bought Chrysler in 1978. PSA Peugeot Citro\u00ebn began to use a Talbot badge on former Simca and Chrysler/Rootes models.\nChrysler/Peugeot era (1979\u20131985).\nChrysler Europe struggled to enter profitability for much of its existence, and had relied on government support to ensure its survival. With mounting pressure on its core North American business, the decision was taken by Chrysler's then CEO Lee Iacocca to offload the ailing European operations. The French Government persuaded both Renault and PSA Peugeot Citro\u00ebn to bid for the company; as it was keen to keep Simca in domestic ownership.\nIn August 1978, PSA negotiated a deal with Chrysler to acquire Chrysler Europe for a nominal $1. Although PSA took responsibility for Chrysler Europe's considerable debts and liabilities, the move was a strategic one; acquiring Simca would remove a strong domestic competitor in the French market while gaining access to that company's expertise in small front wheel drive cars; while at the same time the old Rootes operations would give the company a stronger foothold in the United Kingdom \u2013 France's biggest export market where both Peugeot and Citro\u00ebn lagged behind arch rival Renault. PSA formally took control of the old Chrysler Europe on 1 January 1979. To lead the new group, former British Leyland executive George Turnbull (who had just completed his secondment at Hyundai), was appointed as the managing director of the UK arm.\nThe Peugeot takeover saw the end of the Rootes' Chrysler Hunter production, but the Chrysler Avenger and Sunbeam (also both Rootes designs), and the Simca 1307 (Chrysler Alpine in UK), and Horizon continued rebadged as Talbots.\nAll former Chrysler products registered in Britain after 1 August 1979 bore the Talbot badge. Talbot's UK branch manufactured the Alpine, Solara, and Horizon at its aging Ryton plant in Coventry, after the British-developed cars had all been retired, except for the largest revenue source of the UK arm at that time, building CKD kits of the Hillman Hunter to be sent to Iran where they were assembled as the Peykan.\nThe last remaining car produced by the Rootes group, the Chrysler (previously Hillman) Avenger, remained in production as a Talbot until the end of 1981; production of the Avenger-derived Talbot Sunbeam also ended in 1981. The entry-level model in the Talbot range from December 1981 onwards was the Talbot Samba, a three-door hatchback based on the Peugeot 104.\nIn 1981, Peugeot began producing the Talbot Tagora, a boxy four-door saloon marketed as a rival to the Ford Granada and to the Vauxhall Carlton/Opel Rekord. But as sales were insufficient in both Britain and France, production ceased in 1983 after only 19,389 units were manufactured.\nAt the end of 1984, the Alpine hatchback and its related Solara saloon were re-badged Minx and Rapier, depending upon specification rather than body shape. The new names were inherited from the Rootes Group; Rootes had previously produced the Hillman Minx and Sunbeam Rapier. The new versions were produced until 1986. Former Rootes names are still revived occasionally; in 1982, there was a Talbot Solara \"Sceptre\" model, the name being inherited from the Humber Sceptre which was produced between 1963 and 1976.\nDecline and Demise.\nIn the UK, the Chrysler and Talbot marques had gained nearly 120,000 sales in 1979, only outsold by Ford and British Leyland. However, it then went into decline, not helped by the recession in the early 1980s, or by a lack of new models being launched. By 1985, however, after years of losses, PSA Peugeot Citro\u00ebn began to question its three-brand strategy. The Talbot Tagora model failed in the marketplace; the Samba was essentially a decade-old design thanks to its Peugeot 104 parentage, whilst the ageing 1510/Alpine/Solara models overlapped with both the Citro\u00ebn BX and forthcoming Peugeot 405.\nAt the eleventh hour, the decision was made to release the forthcoming Horizon replacement as the Peugeot 309 instead of Talbot Arizona. It was a controversial decision, because the British arm of the company believed there was greater brand loyalty to Talbot in the UK, with its historical connection to the Rootes Group. However, the decision to concentrate on the Peugeot brand prevailed, and the 309 became the first of a long line of British-built Peugeot models to be assembled at the Ryton plant. Partly because they were perceived as \"British\" (despite most of their content actually being imported from PSA's French factories), the 309 and the subsequent 405, 306 and 206 models were very successful in the UK market, and regularly featured among the country's top ten best-selling cars.\nAround 1984, PSA had also considered launching a replacement for the Talbot Samba based on the platform of the Citro\u00ebn AX, which was still under-development, but such was the success of the Peugeot 205 in the supermini sector that PSA felt there was little need for a third supermini in its portfolio. It became clear however, that there was no long-term future for the Talbot brand in 1986 when PSA sold the Whitley research and development centre to Jaguar, signalling the end of any more British-developed models.\nProduction of the Horizon continued in Spain and Finland until 1987, marking the end of the Talbot name on passenger cars (the Samba had been discontinued in May 1986), although the Talbot Express panel van continued in production until 1994, after which the entire Talbot marque was axed.\nTalbots in the UK.\nThe Talbot Express van (along with its identical sister vehicle the Fiat Ducato) was a popular base vehicle for motorhomes and campervan conversions. According to the website \"How Many Left?\", there were fewer than 40 Alpine/Solara models, 20 Horizons, 10 Sambas and only one Tagora still registered with the British Driver &amp; Vehicle Licensing Agency, compared to well over 5,000 Talbot Express vans, the vast majority of which are motorhomes.\nResurrection.\nIn 2008, PSA considered reintroducing Talbot to the market, targeting low-budget buyers, as Renault did with its Dacia Logan. It was suggested that these could be models produced in China such as Talbot versions of the Citro\u00ebn Elys\u00e9e and of the Peugeot 206, but did not make a comeback as of 2012 because PSA introduced the second-generation Citro\u00ebn C-Elys\u00e9e and the Peugeot 301.\nThe merger of Groupe PSA and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles in 2021 to form Stellantis, saw the Talbot brand again exist under the same corporate umbrella as Chrysler, over 40 years after the dissolution of Chrysler Europe.\nVehicles.\nCars built under the \"Talbot\" brand (1967\u20131994)\nMotorsport.\nFormula One.\nTalbot had two brief spells in Formula One. The 4.5-litre, six-cylinder Talbot-Lago T26 was eligible for F1 competition post-war, and many examples, both factory and private, appeared in the first two years of the F1 World Championship, 1950 and 1951. Talbots came fourth and fifth in the inaugural World Championship race, the 1950 British Grand Prix, piloted by Yves Giraud-Cabantous and Louis Rosier respectively. The move to two-litre F2 regulations for 1952 effectively ended Talbot's F1 spell as a manufacturer.\nThere was a brief participation in Formula One in the 1981 and 1982 seasons by associating with the Ligier team and using its Matra connection to secure a Matra engine for them, changing official constructor's name to \"Talbot Ligier\" in both seasons. The Talbot Ligier team was moderately successful, Jacques Laffite coming fourth in the 1981 championship with two wins.\nWorld Rally Championship.\nThe Talbot factory team for the World Rally Championship was founded in 1979, after Peugeot had taken over Chrysler Europe and resurrected the Talbot name. In the team's inaugural season in the series, Tony Pond drove the Talbot Sunbeam Lotus to fourth place at the 1979 Rallye Sanremo. More success followed in the 1980 season; Guy Fr\u00e9quelin brought Talbot the team's first podium by finishing third at the 1980 Rally Portugal, and then Henri Toivonen won the RAC Rally, becoming the youngest-ever driver to win a world rally. The rally was a big success for Talbot as the team also took the third and fourth places, driven by Fr\u00e9quelin and Russell Brookes, respectively. This was also the last time that a two-wheel-drive car won the RAC Rally. In the manufacturers' world championship, Talbot placed sixth.\nIn the 1981 season, Talbot continued with Fr\u00e9quelin and Toivonen. Although the team's only win came at the Rally Argentina, driven by Fr\u00e9quelin, consistent podiums and points-scoring finishes saw Talbot take the manufacturers' title. Fr\u00e9quelin narrowly lost the drivers' title to Ford's Ari Vatanen. The 1982 season saw the series dominated by the four-wheel-drive Audi Quattro, and with Group B regulations coming up, Talbot withdrew from the WRC. However, the Talbot name continued in the championship, as Jean Todt founded the \"Peugeot Talbot Sport\" in 1981. This Peugeot factory team debuted in 1984 and won the drivers' and manufacturers' titles in 1985 and 1986.\nWorld Sportscar Championship.\nThe Talbot marque appeared in the motorsport for the last time as a part of the Peugeot Talbot Sport sportscar team founded by Jean Todt which competed in the World Sportscar Championship in the 1990\u20131992 seasons and at the 1993 24 Hours of Le Mans. The French team won both a drivers' and teams' title at the World Sportscar Championship in the 1992 season and the 24 Hours of Le Mans in 1992 and 1993.\nSponsorship.\nTalbot was the main sponsor of Coventry City football club from 1981 to 1983, and at one stage the club's chairman Jimmy Hill was planning to change the club's name to Coventry Talbot. However, these plans were vetoed by the Football League and by the summer of 1983 Talbot had ended its association with the club."}
{"id": "732591", "revid": "45868518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732591", "title": "Universal salvation", "text": ""}
{"id": "732592", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732592", "title": "L\u2019\u00c9rable Regional County Municipality, Quebec", "text": ""}
{"id": "732593", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732593", "title": "Janeway lesion", "text": "Janeway lesions are rare, non-tender, small erythematous or haemorrhagic macular, papular or nodular lesions on the palms or soles only a few millimeters in diameter that are associated with infective endocarditis and often indistinguishable from Osler's nodes.\nDefinition.\nJaneway lesions are painless, frequently haemorrhagic lesions seen most commonly on the palms and soles, particularly on the base of the thumb and little finger, and seen in infective endocarditis.\nDifferential.\nOsler's nodes and Janeway lesions are similar and point to the same diagnostic conclusion. The most significant difference between the two is that Osler's nodes present with tenderness, while Janeway lesions do not. Osler's nodes are thought to be due to immunologic phenomenon where deposition of immune complexes provoke inflammatory response, leading to swelling, redness and pain. On the contrary, Janeway lesions are thought to be due to embolic phenomenon in cutaneous blood vessels of palms and soles which does not cause pain or least pain.\nPathophysiology.\nPathologically, the lesion is described to be a microabscess of the dermis with marked necrosis and inflammatory infiltrate not involving the epidermis.\nThey are caused by septic emboli which deposit bacteria, forming microabscesses. Organisms may be cultured from the lesions.\nDiagnosis.\nJaneway lesions present as red, painless macules and papules on the palms and soles.\nThey are not common and are frequently indistinguishable from Osler's nodes. Rarely, they have been reported in cases of systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE), gonococcemia (disseminated gonorrhoea), haemolytic anaemia and typhoid fever.\nThey may last days to weeks before completely resolving.\nHistory.\nJaneway lesions are named after Edward Janeway (1841\u20131911), a prominent American physician, pathologist and contemporary of Sir William Osler, who initially described \"peculiar skin lesions\" in some people with endocarditis, in a paper published in 1899. The term was first used by internist and pathologist Emanuel Libman, who reported the lesions in his paper of 1906 and explained his reasoning for using the term \"Janeway lesions\" in a footnote in 1923. Osler never mentioned Janeway lesions. The inclusion into Osler's 1925 textbook came six years after Osler died."}
{"id": "732594", "revid": "48747569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732594", "title": "Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame", "text": ""}
{"id": "732597", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732597", "title": "Les Collines-de-l\u2019Outaouais Regional County Municipality, Quebec", "text": ""}
{"id": "732598", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732598", "title": "James Paget", "text": "Sir James Paget, 1st Baronet FRS HFRSE (11 January 1814 \u2013 30 December 1899) (, rhymes with \"gadget\") was an English surgeon and pathologist who is best remembered for first describing Paget's disease and who is considered, together with Rudolf Virchow, as one of the founders of scientific medical pathology. His famous works included \"Lectures on Tumours\" (1851) and \"Lectures on Surgical Pathology\" (1853). There are several medical conditions which were described by, and later named after, Paget:\nLife.\nPaget was born in Great Yarmouth, England, on 11 January 1814, the son of Samuel Paget, a brewer and shipowner, and his wife, Sarah Elizabeth Tolver. He was one of a large family, and his brother Sir George Edward Paget (1809\u20131892), who became Regius Professor of Physic at the University of Cambridge in 1872, also had a distinguished career in medicine and was made a K.C.B. James attended a day-school in Yarmouth, and afterwards was intended for the navy; but this plan was given up, and at the age of 16 he was apprenticed to a general practitioner, for whom he served for four and a half years, during which time he gave his leisure hours to botanising, and made a great collection of the flora of East Norfolk. At the end of his apprenticeship, he published with one of his brothers a very careful \"Sketch of the Natural History of Yarmouth and its Neighbourhood\".\nIn October 1834, he entered as a student at St Bartholomew's Hospital, in London. Here he is noted to have described the first journal club. Medical students in those days were left very much to themselves; there was no close supervision of their work, but Paget probably gained rather than lost by having to fight his own way. He swept the board of prizes in 1835, and again in 1836; in his first winter session, he discovered the pathogen for trichinosis, a parasitic disease caused by \"Trichinella spiralis\", a minute roundworm that infests the muscles of the human body, and which is usually acquired by eating infected pork. In May 1836, he passed his examination at the Royal College of Surgeons, and became qualified to practise. The next seven years (1836\u20131843) were spent in London lodgings, and were a time of poverty, for he made only 15 pounds a year by practise, and his father, having failed in business, could not give him any help. He managed to keep himself by writing for the medical journals, and preparing the catalogues of the hospital museum and the pathological museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. In 1836, he was made curator of the hospital museum, and in 1838, demonstrator of morbid anatomy at the hospital, but his advancement there was hindered by the privileges of the hospital apprentices, and because he had been too poor to afford a house-surgeoncy, or even a dressership.\nIn 1841, he was made surgeon to the Finsbury Dispensary, but this appointment did not give him any experience in the graver operations of surgery. He was appointed lecturer on general anatomy (microscopic anatomy) and physiology at the hospital in 1843, and warden of the hospital college then founded. For the next eight years, he lived within the walls of the hospital, in charge of about 30 students resident in the little college. Besides his lectures and his superintendence of the resident students, he had to enter all new students, to advise them how to work, and to manage the finances and the general affairs of the school. Thus, he was constantly occupied with the business of the school, and often passed a week, or more, without going outside the hospital gates.\nIn 1844, he married Lydia North (d.1895), youngest daughter of the Rev. Henry North. In 1847, he was appointed an assistant surgeon to the hospital, and Arris and Gale professor at the Royal College of Surgeons. He held this professorship for six years and each year gave six lectures in surgical pathology. The first edition of these lectures, which were the chief scientific work of his life, was published in 1853 as \"Lectures on Surgical Pathology\". He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1851. In October 1851, he resigned the wardenship of the hospital. He had now become known as a great physiologist and pathologist; he had done for pathology in England what Rudolf Virchow had done in Germany, but he had hardly begun to get into practice, and he had kept himself poor so he might pay his share of his father's debts, a task that took him 14 years to fulfil.\nPaget was the father of Sir John Paget (2nd Baronet); the Rt Revd Dr Francis Paget, Lord Bishop of Oxford; the Rt Revd Dr Luke Paget, Lord Bishop of Chester; and Stephen Paget, an English surgeon who first proposed the seed and soil theory of metastasis.\nPaget was friends with Charles Darwin and Thomas Henry Huxley. He was a committed Christian and maintained there was no conflict between religion and science.\nHe was elected as a member of the American Philosophical Society in 1854 and was President of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society from 1875 to 1877.\nWorks.\nNo famous surgeon, not even John Hunter (1728\u20131793), was likely to have founded his practice deeper in science than Paget did, or waited longer for his work to come back to him. In physiology, he had mastered the chief English, French, German, Dutch and Italian literature of the subject, and by incessant study and microscope work had put himself level with the most advanced knowledge of his time, so that it was said of him by Robert Owen, in 1851, that he had his choice, either to be the first physiologist in Europe, or to have the first surgical practice in London, with a baronetcy. His physiological lectures at St Bartholomew's Hospital were the chief cause of the rise in the fortunes of its school, which in 1843 had gone down to a low point.\nHis work in pathology was even more important. He filled the place in pathology left empty by Hunter's death in 1793; this was the time of transition from Hunter's teaching, which for all its greatness was hindered by want of the modern microscope, to the pathology and bacteriology of the present day. Paget's greatest achievement was that he made pathology dependent, in everything, on the use of the microscope, especially the pathology of tumours. He also made watercolour depictions of the specimens in Hunter's museum and catalogued its medical collections. He and Virchow may truly be called the founders of modern pathology; they stand together, Paget's \"Lectures on Surgical Pathology\" and Virchow's \"Cellul\u00e4r-Pathologie\".\nWhen Paget, in 1851, began practice near Cavendish Square, he had still to wait a few years more for success in professional life. The turn of the tide came about 1854 or 1855; and in 1858 he was appointed surgeon extraordinary to Queen Victoria, and in 1863 surgeon in ordinary to Albert Edward, Prince of Wales. Paget wrote briefly and derisively of physician James Richard Hancorn, son of J. R. Hancorn: \"Idle, dissipated, drinking,\u2014associate of Sievier. Had to resign the House Surgeoncy; practised a few months with his father in Shoreditch; &amp; died in 1860.\" The sculptor Robert William Sievier had a studio on Henrietta Street, near Cavendish Square.\nPaget had for many years the largest and most arduous surgical practice in London. His day's work was seldom less than 16 or 17 hours. Cases sent to him for final judgment, with special frequency, were those of tumours, and of all kinds of disease of the bones and joints, and all neurotic cases having symptoms of surgical disease. His supremacy lay rather in the science than in the art of surgery, but his name is also associated with certain great practical advances. He discovered Paget's disease of the breast and Paget's disease of the bones (\"osteitis deformans\"), which are named after him; he was the first to urge removal of the tumour, instead of amputation of the limb, in cases of myeloid sarcoma. In 1869 he was elected President of the Clinical Society of London.\nIn 1870, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\nIn 1871, he nearly died from infection at a \"post mortem\" examination, and, to lighten the weight of his work, was obliged to resign his surgeoncy to the hospital. In this same year, he received the honour of the baronetcy of Harewood Place in the County of Middlesex. He received an honorary degree from the University of Cambridge in 1874. In 1875, he was president of the Royal College of Surgeons, and delivered the Hunterian oration in 1877. Also in 1875, he was elected as president of the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London. In 1878, he gave up operating, but for eight or 10 years longer, he still had a very heavy consulting practice. In 1880, he gave, at Cambridge, a memorable address on Elemental Pathology, setting forth the likeness of certain diseases of plants and trees to those of the human body. The next year, he was president of the International Medical Congress held in London. In 1887 he was elected President of the Pathological Society of London\nBesides shorter writings, he also published \"Clinical Lectures and Essays\" (1st ed. 1875) and \"Studies of Old Case-books\" (1891). In 1883, on the death of Sir George Jessel, he was appointed vice-chancellor of the University of London. In 1889, he was appointed a member of the Royal Commission on Vaccination.\nIn May 1886, he treated Edward Crowley, father of Aleister Crowley for tongue cancer. An operation was advised, but Crowley declined and died the following year.\nHe died at home, 5 Park Square West in Regent's Park, London, on 30 December 1899, at the age of 85. The \"Memoirs and Letters of Sir James Paget\", edited by Stephen Paget, was published in 1901.\nSir James Paget had the gift of eloquence, and was one of the most careful and most delightful speakers of his time. He had a natural and unaffected pleasure in society, and he loved music. He possessed the rare gift of the ability to turn swiftly from work to play, enjoying his holidays like a schoolboy, easily moved to laughter, keen to get the maximum of happiness out of very ordinary amusements, emotional in spite of incessant self-restraint, and vigorous in spite of constant overwork. In him, a certain light-hearted enjoyment was combined with the utmost reserve, unfailing religious faith, and the most scrupulous honour. He was all his life profoundly indifferent toward politics, both national and medical; his ideal was the unity of science and practice in professional life.\nSir James's reputation remains high due to his work as a surgeon and medical research and work, but he also had an apparent interest in criminal matters. In 1886, he followed the Pimlico Mystery, the poisoning trial of Adelaide Bartlett for the murder of her husband Edwin. After a spirited defence by Sir Edward Clarke, Bartlett was acquitted. The key problem of the trial was that Edwin was poisoned by liquid chloroform, which was found in his stomach, but liquid chloroform burns the throat if swallowed, and the drinker would be screaming. Edwin Bartlett never screamed the night he died. As a result, an alternative theory of suicide was considered and helped get the acquittal, but it left the public unsatisfied. Paget, upon hearing the result, made the comment for which he is best remembered: \"Now that she has been acquitted for murder and cannot be tried again, she should tell us in the interest of science how she did it!\""}
{"id": "732599", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732599", "title": "Women's Basketball Hall Of Fame", "text": ""}
{"id": "732602", "revid": "26037922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732602", "title": "Savage Arms", "text": "Savage Arms is an American gunmaker based in Westfield, Massachusetts, with operations in both the United States and Canada. Savage makes a variety of rimfire and centerfire rifles, as well as handguns and Stevens single-shot rifles and shotguns. The company is best known for the Model 99 lever-action rifle, no longer in production, and the .300 Savage. Savage was a subsidiary of Vista Outdoor until 2019 when it was spun off.\nHistory.\nSavage Arms was founded in 1894 by Arthur Savage in Utica, New York. Within 20 years they were producing rifles, handguns, and ammunition. Savage introduced the first hammerless lever-action rifle, the Model 1895, derived from Arthur Savage's Model 1892 rifle that he had designed for Colt in a failed bid for a US Army rifle contract that instead was won by the Krag\u2013J\u00f8rgensen design. The Model 1895 won a New York National Guard contract, but the contract was cancelled due to political controversy.\nSavage was one of six companies to participate in the United States Army trials for a .45 caliber semi-automatic pistol, and was named one of the two finalists before losing out to Colt's design, which would become the M1911 pistol. Savage marketed a series of .32 and .380 caliber pocket pistols, the Models 1907, 1915, and 1917 based on the same patents as their .45 caliber prototype.\nIn 1915-1916 company chief designer Charles A. Nelson directed the design of new bolt-action rifles for the US military to supplement M1903 Springfield, but in the run-up of the US entrance in WWI US Army decided to adopt Pattern 1914 Enfield which was already in the serial production for the British, and Savage was tasked with machine gun production instead. Savage merged with the Driggs-Seabury Ordnance Company during World War I and produced Lewis machine guns at Driggs-Seabury's former plant in Sharon, Pennsylvania. Savage also produced Model 1899 muskets for the Montreal Home Guard during World War I.\nA 1979 Savage Arms catalogue claimed that in 1919, Arthur Savage was approached by Chief Lame Deer to buy rifles for his tribe in New York. Lame Deer offered to allow Savage to use his image as its logo in exchange for discounted rifles and an annual fee. As of 2018, Savage Arms was still paying the annual fee. However, the Savage Model 1907 already bore the logo (including those made prior to 1919), and a catalog from 1903 shows Savage Arms using a similar illustration as well.\nInterwar.\nIn 1920 Savage restarted the production of Model 1899 as Model 99, introduced new Model 1920 bolt-action rifle based on Nelson's WWI prototypes modified for cartridges shorter than military rifle ones that would fit in Model 99 magazine, and introduced a new cartridge of that type: .300 Savage .\nAlso in the same year, Savage bought Stevens Arms of Chicopee, Massachusetts. In July 1921, a mortgage securing five promissory notes, each for $21,416, was filed in the County Clerk's office in Utica showing that the Savage Arms Corporation had purchased a \"number of buildings erected by the government\" during World War I for increasing the output of Lewis machine guns at the plant. The buildings included two large four-story brick structures, five large storage sheds, and one office building, a concrete mill building, steel storage building, power extension plant, shooting gallery and steel water tank with a capacity of 100,000 gallons. The notes were due in 1927. In 1929 Savage acquired the A.H. Fox Gun company of Philadelphia and moved production to Utica.\nIn 1939, Savage introduced the Model 24 combination gun (a configuration uncommon in the U.S.), which sold over a million copies. Savage was one of the few American makers of affordable double-barrel shotguns including the Fox Sterlingworth, Fox Model B, and Stevens Model 311 and produced rifles and shotguns under house brand names for large store chains.\nSecond World War.\nDuring World War II, Savage turned again to military production, making heavy munitions. Savage made most of the Thompson submachine guns used in World War II. Savage also produced the British No. 4 Lee\u2013Enfield bolt-action rifle; though marked \"U.S. PROPERTY,\" these rifles were never used by the US military and were instead sent to Britain under the Lend-Lease program. As quality wood was reserved for military gun stock production, Savage produced some Model 24 .22/.410 combo guns and Model 94 single barrel shotguns with stocks molded from Tenite plastic.\nPost-war.\nAfter the war, it produced the model 67 and model 69 pump shotguns, including the model 69N stainless steel tactical pump shotgun. A variety of owners ran the company from the 1960s to the 1980s. Savage eventually ran into financial trouble in 1988 and filed for bankruptcy protection.\nIn addition to firearms, Savage Arms Corporation also sold power lawn mowers during this period.\n21st century.\nIn 2002, the company started selling a factory-installed, safe, user-adjustable trigger, called the \"AccuTrigger\". The \"AccuStock\", an aluminum stock embedded rail system to further enhance action stability and accuracy, was introduced by Savage in 2009.\nSavage was named the \"Manufacturer of the Year\" by the Shooting Industry Academy of Excellence in 2003.\nThe Savage 93R17 BTVS was awarded the \"Best New Rifle\" in the \"Best of the Best\" presentation by \"Shooting Times\", \"Sporting Gun\", and \"Shooting Gazette\" magazines May 15, 2007, at the E. J. Churchill Shooting School in the U.K.\nRon Coburn, then chairman and CEO of Savage Sports Corporation was honored by SHOT Business Magazine and Time4Media outdoor media group as their \"2007 Man of the Year\". On February 5, 2013, Coburn announced that he was stepping down after a 25-year tenure as chairman and CEO of Savage Sports Corporation. On February 6, 2013, Savage Sports announced the appointment of Ron Johnson as its new Chief Executive Officer. Johnson most recently served as President of the Sporting Group within Alliant Techsystems (\"ATK\").\nVista Outdoor markets firearm accessories and ammunition under brands that include Weaver Optics, Federal Premium, Speer Ammo, and Blazer. ATK, the predecessor of Vista Outdoor, announced the purchase of Savage for $315 million on May 13, 2013. With the purchase, Johnson remained with Bowtech Archery, who was not part of the sale, and Al Kasper began tenure as CEO.\nAs of July 2018, Vista Outdoor was attempting to sell Savage Arms as part of a larger restructuring. Vista Outdoor said that expanding Savage's offerings to include handguns was too expensive. As of 2018, Savage Arms' sales made up just 7% of Vista Outdoor's overall business.\nAs of May 2018, Savage Arms had 367 workers at its factory in Westfield, Massachusetts.\nOn July 9, 2019, Vista Outdoor completed the sale of Savage Arms and Stevens Arms for $170 million to a group of investors led by Savage's management. Vista received immediate gross proceeds of $158 million and a $12-million five-year note. Vista said it will use this money, after paying associated taxes, to reduce its debt.\nChris Bezzina became the CEO of Savage Arms in 2023.\nProducts.\nShotguns.\nThe S1200 is the first semi-automatic shotgun sold under the Stevens brand. The S1200 uses an inertia-driven action that uses the recoil force of the gun to cycle shells. The S1200 weighs 6.8 pounds. Options for 26-inch and 28-inch barrels are available.\nAs of 2018, Savage sold the 212 (12 gauge) and 220 (20 gauge) model shotguns. These models can be fired accurately at ranges up to 200 yards. This accuracy is mostly due to their bolt-action design. These models use Savage's AccuTrigger system to customize trigger pull weight. These models are specifically designed for firing shotgun slugs in addition to bird shot. Both models come with two-round detachable magazines. In 2019, Savage released variants of the 212 and 220 shotguns designed specifically for hunting turkeys.\nIn 2020 Savage released the \"Savage Renegauge\" also intended for turkey hunting. It makes use of a \"Dual Regulating Inline Valve\" in order to reduce the recoil. The gun weighs 8lbs and was released at a suggested price of $1,550.\nIn 2023, Savage released the Stevens 560 Field 12-gauge semi-automatic hunting shotgun.\nHandguns.\nSavage also manufactures handguns, such as the Stance XR and Model 1911.\nStance XR.\nIn the front, the Stance XR has a Glock-sight-compatible threaded tenon, while in the rear, a dovetail is included.\nModel 1911.\nSavage's 1911 handguns were released in 2023.\nRimfire rifles.\nModel 64.\nThe Model 64 series is a semi-automatic .22 LR rifle made in Lakefield, Ontario, Canada. It operates on a simple blowback action. It is targeted towards beginning shooters, small game hunters, and budget-minded plinking. It is one of the most popular plinkers in the United States due to high accuracy, being chambered in cheap, common, and readily available .22 Long Rifle, and the low price. It is unusual among semiautomatic 22s, and traditional (non-bullpup) semiautomatic rifles in general, in that it is available in a true left-handed version (left handed safety, charging handle, and ejector).\nA Series.\nThe A Series is a new family of semi-automatic rimfire rifles aimed to replace/compete with the aging Model 64 series.\nModel 93.\nThe Model 93 is a series of \"magnum\" bolt-action rimfire rifles chambered for the .22 WMR ammunition and its neck-down derivative caliber .17 HMR.\nMark II Series.\nThe Mark II Series is a family of bolt-action rimfire rifles chambered mainly for the .22 LR ammunition, as well as the .17 HM2 for its FV varmint model.\nB Series.\nThe B Series is a new family of bolt-action rimfire rifles introduced in 2017 to replace/compete with the old Mark II series, chambered for the .17 HMR, .22 LR and the .22 WMR ammunitions fed via a 10-round rotary magazine shared with the A Series.\nRascal.\nRascal is a bolt-action single-shot rimfire rifle chambered for .22 LR ammunition.\nCombination guns.\nIn 2016, Savage arms introduced the Model 42 Takedown combination gun. It breaks down via a one-button, one-push mechanism. The over and under barrels are 20\" long. The top barrel fires .22 LR or .22 WMR rimfire ammunition, while the bottom barrel fires .410 bore shotgun shells. The lower barrel is chambered for 3\" shells, allowing the use of both 3\" and 2.5\" birdshot, buckshot, slugs, and self-defense rounds. The rifle barrel on top has open sights. The Model 42 has a black, matte, synthetic stock.\nBolt-action rifles.\nModel 110.\nThe Model 110 is a repeating bolt-action rifle. The Model 110 was designed by Nicholas L. Brewer in 1958 and was patented posthumously in 1963. It has been in continuous production since that time, and with the closing of Winchester's New Haven, Connecticut, plant in 2007, the Model 110 has passed the Winchester Model 70 as the oldest continuously manufactured bolt-action rifle in America.\nIn 2018, Savage released the Model 110 Tactical variant. It can be chambered in .308 Winchester, 6.5mm Creedmoor, 6mm Creedmoor, and 300 Winchester Magnum. The Tactical variant includes Savage's AccuFit system allowing shooters to customize the comb height and length-of-pull.\nModel 10FP and Model 110FP.\nThe Savage 10FP is a bolt-action rifle based on the Model 110 rifle. There are seven variants of this rifle, each designated with an \"LE\" code signifying that it is part of the Law Enforcement Series. Most 10FP series rifles are configured with AccuTrigger, matte-blued barreled action, heavy free-floating and button-rifled barrel, oversized bolt handle, an internal box magazine (holding four rounds), and three swivel studs for sling and bipod mounting. The Savage 10FP is similar to the Savage 110FP rifle and differ only in the action lengths and in the calibers used. The 10FP is\"short action,\" using cartridges similar in length to the .308 Winchester. The 110FP is considered a \"long action,\" meaning it uses cartridges similar in length to the .30-06 Springfield. Both are bolt-action, rotating bolt rifles, with dual-lug bolts and integral, non-detachable magazines, and both are available in left-handed models.\nModel 10/110.\nThe Predator Hunter Max 1 has a fluted carbon steel barrel and synthetic stock finished in a camouflage pattern. It comes in variants chambered with .204 Ruger, 22-250 Remington, .223 Remington, .243 Remington, .260 Remington, 6.5 Creedmoor and .308 Winchester. All variants have a 24-inch barrels, except the .223 which has a 22-inch barrel. Accustock, AccuTrigger, a soft rubber recoil pad, a three-position safety, and a four-round magazine are all included.\nModel 11/111.\nThe Hog Hunter variant chambered in 338 Winchester Magnum, is a bolt-action rifle designed for hunting wild boar. It is a variant of the Model 11/111 design. Models are available for short-action .223 Remington and .308 Winchester, .338 Federal, and .350 Legend cartridges. It has a 20-inch, medium-contour, heavy barrel with a threaded end. The Hog Hunter comes standard with v-notch iron sights. The AccuTrigger allows the shooter to adjust the strength required for a trigger pull. The Hog Hunter weighs about seven pounds.\nThe Long Ranger Hunter variant is available chambered in .260 Remington, .300 Winchester, .338 Federal, .338 Lapua Magnum, 6.5 Creedmoor, 6.5 x .284 Norma, and 7mm Remington. All versions except the Lapua Magnum have 26-inch carbon steel barrels with an adjustable muzzle brake, which can be twisted open or closed. Except for the .338 Lapua Magnum, each version has hinged metal floorplates. The Lapua Magnum has a fixed muzzle brake and a detachable box magazine. The receiver is drilled and tapped for mounting a scope. AccuStock and AccuTrigger come standard. The weight of the Long Range Hunter varies from 8.4 pounds to 9.25 pounds depending on how it is chambered.\nOther variants.\nThe Model 112 Magnum Target rifle is a single-shot bolt-action rifle for long-range shooters. It chambers 338 Lapua Magnum cartridges. It is built around the Magnum Target Action, has a pillar-bedded 26-inch heavy barrel, and uses the Target AccuTrigger system for adjusting the amount of force necessary to affect a trigger pull. The Target AccuTrigger can be adjusted by the shooter to require a pull as low as six ounces. The Model 112 weights 12 pounds and is 49.8 inches long.\nThe Lightweight Hunter weighs only 5.65 pounds. Savage achieved this weight by using a light-contour 20-inch barrel, spiral-fluting the bolt, machining excess metal from the receiver as well as milling cuts in the stock. Weight is also saved by using a polymer-bottom detachable four-round box magazine. Variants are available in .223 Remington, .243 Remington, .270 Winchester, .308 Winchester, and 7mm-08 Remington. The barrel has a matte finish. The stock is oil-finished walnut. The total length of the rifle is 40.25 inches. AccuTrigger is included.\nThe Model 116 has variants chambered for .338 Winchester and .375 Ruger. It has a 20-inch stainless steel barrel and a stainless action. The receiver is drilled and tapped for mounting a scope. It comes standard with adjustable LPA open sights. The stock is a black polymer. The bolt hand is oversized so that it can be used while wearing gloves. An internal box magazine holds three rounds. The overall length of the rifle is 41.5 inches. It weighs 7.6 pounds. Savage's standard three-position safety and AccuTrigger system come standard.\nThe BA Stealth was named one of \"American Hunter's\" \"Top New Rifles\" for 2016. The BA Stealth can be chambered in .308 Winchester. It has a solid aluminum chassis and an adjustable polymer stock. It includes the AccuTrigger system. The Axis II XP Stainless is bolt-action hunting rifle with a stainless barreled action and a bore-sighted Weaver scope. It is made in eight common calibers. It includes AccuTrigger. It was named one of \"American Hunter's\" \"Top New Rifles\" for 2016.\nAxis II XP.\nThe Axis II XP line of rifles come with Bushnell Banner scopes and are chambered in a variety of ammunition. The stock is synthetic. The barrel is mated to the receiver with thread-in headspacing. This allows for precision fabrication while keeping costs down. The use of a floating bolt head also maintains precision while helping to keep the rifle affordable. The Axis II XP has a four-round magazine and weights approximately 6.8 pounds. The barrel length is 22 inches.\nImpulse.\nA fully ambidextrous straight-pull bolt-action rifle introduced in early 2021 with a variety of calibers and models.\nModern sporting rifles.\nMSR-15 and variants.\nMSR-15 variants are all modern sporting rifles based on the AR platform.\nSavage released the MSR-15 Recon LRP in 2018. It has an adjustable gas block and an 18-inch-long barrel that make it suitable for use at long range. The gas block can be customized for use with specific kinds of ammunition. Variants come chambered in 6.8 SPC, 22 Nosler, and .224 Valkyrie. The rifle has an extended length of 38.5 inches and a collapsed length of 35.25 inches. The rifle weighs 7.5 pounds.\nSavage released the MSR-15 Long Range in 2018. The most salient feature of this variant is its 22-inch barrel. The barrel length was chosen to achieve maximum accuracy with .224 Valkyrie ammunition from long range.\nLeft-handed firearms.\nSpecialty guns are the primary focus of Savage Arms' business. All of its product offerings fulfill a special need. Weapons designed for left-handed shooters are a good example of this. \nSavage was the first major manufacturer to produce a left-handed hunting rifle in significant quantities, starting in 1959. \nSavage Arms sells 18 different firearms for left-handed shooters with products designed for big game, law enforcement, target competition, and predator hunting, including left-handed slug shotguns and bolt-action and semi-auto rimfire rifles. Savage generally releases its products as right-handed models with a left-handed version to follow a few years later. Models not available with a stock left-handed version can usually be made to order. Savage can convert most of its products to left-handed versions because most of its receivers, bolt releases, and safeties are designed symmetrically. Savage can easily convert its products' designs by changing the bolt assembly and moving the ejection port to the opposite side, but most of its competitors have to design completely new receivers. Savage's machine tools are likewise set up to quickly and easily switch from producing right-handed products to left-handed ones and back again.\nDiscontinued products.\nSince Savage is one of the older American arms companies still in commercial production, it would be difficult to list the number of models no longer in production made by Savage under its own name and under tradenames for retail outlets. Those most notable and still in wide use today include:\nAmmunition.\nFor most of its history, Savage made ammunition as well as firearms. Savage marketed a wide variety of calibers. The .303 Savage, .22 Savage Hi-Power, .250-3000 Savage, and .300 Savage are some of the more important ammunition types sold by the firm.\nOperations in Canada.\nSavage Arms' Canadian operations began as an independent enterprise called Lakefield Arms. It was founded in 1969 in Lakefield, Ontario where it remains as of 2020. The company was formed partially in response to the closure of a boat factory in the same town. The founding partners thought the laid-off factory workers' skills would be readily transferable to gun making. During its first year of operations, Lakefield Arms produced two different .22 caliber rifles for the Canadian market. The Mark II was a bolt-action rifle with a 10-round removable magazine. The Mark III was a semi-automatic rifle that also had a 10-round removable magazine. Both had wooden stocks. As of 2019, these designs were still the basis for the companies best-selling products.\nIn 1973, Lakefield Arms moved into a new factory on 2.5-acre parcel of land the company had purchased near Water Street in the same town. As of 2019, it remains at the same locations. 90 to 140 people are usually employed at this site depending on demand and the time of year. Savage Arms purchased Lakefield Arms in 1995.\nAccording to company officials, the Canadian division of Savage Arms exports 97 percent of its rifles, mostly to the U.S, as of 1997. In an interview with a local newspaper reporter in 2019, a senior company official said that 200,000 to 300,000 guns per year are manufactured at Lakefield. The same official said roughly 85 percent of its output is exported to the United States, 5 percent is exported to other countries, and 10 percent is sold within Canada."}
{"id": "732604", "revid": "226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732604", "title": "Kaposi's angiosarcoma", "text": ""}
{"id": "732605", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732605", "title": "Ky\u014dka Izumi", "text": ", known by his pen name , was a Japanese novelist, writer and kabuki playwright who was active during the prewar period.\nKy\u014dka's writing differed greatly from that of the naturalist writers who dominated the literary scene at the time. Many of Ky\u014dka's works are surrealist critiques of society. He is best known for a characteristic brand of Romanticism preferring tales of the supernatural heavily influenced by works of the earlier Edo period in Japanese arts and letters, which he tempered with his own personal vision of aesthetics and art in the modern age.\nHe is also considered one of the supreme stylists in modern Japanese literature, and the difficulty and richness of his prose has been frequently noted by fellow authors and critics. Like Natsume S\u014dseki and other Japanese authors with pen names, Ky\u014dka is usually known by his pen name rather than his real given name.\nLife.\nBefore Tokyo.\nKy\u014dka was born Izumi Ky\u014dtar\u014d on November 4, 1873 in the Shitashinmachi section of Kanazawa, Ishikawa, to , a chaser and inlayer of metallic ornaments, and , daughter of a \"tsuzumi\" hand-drum player from Edo and younger sister to lead protagonist of the Noh theater, Kintar\u014d Matsumoto. Because of his family's impoverished circumstances, he attended the tuition-free Hokuriku English-Japanese School, run by Christian missionaries.\nEven before he entered grade school, young Ky\u014dtar\u014d's mother introduced him to literature in picture-books interspersed with text called \"kusaz\u014dshi,\" and his works would later show the influence of this early contact with such visual forms of story-telling. In April 1883, at nine years old, Ky\u014dka lost his mother, who was 29 at the time. It was a great blow to his young mind, and he would attempt to recreate memories of her in works throughout his literary career.\nIn 1890, Ky\u014dka went to Tokyo in order to follow the footsteps of Ozaki K\u014dy\u014d, a literary figure of this time. From 1891-1894 Ky\u014dka lived with Ozaki K\u014dy\u014d and performed houseboy duties for him in return for his expertise opinions on his work. Ky\u014dka was deeply impressed by Ozaki K\u014dy\u014d's \"Amorous Confessions of Two Nuns\" and decided to pursue a career in literature. That June he took a trip to Toyama Prefecture. At this time he worked as a teacher in private preparatory schools and spent his free time running through \"yomihon\" and \"kusaz\u014dshi\". In November of that year, however, Ky\u014dka's aspiration to an artistic career drove him to Tokyo, where he intended to enter the tutelage of K\u014dy\u014d himself.\nOn 19 November 1891, he called on K\u014dy\u014d in ) (part of present-day Shinjuku) without prior introduction and requested that he be allowed into the school immediately. He was accepted, and from that time began life as a live-in apprentice. Other than a brief trip to Kanazawa in December of the following year, Ky\u014dka spent all of his time in the Ozaki household, proving his value to K\u014dy\u014d through correcting his manuscripts and household tasks. Ky\u014dka greatly adored his teacher, thinking of him as a teacher of more than literature, a benefactor who nourished his early career before he gained a name for himself. He felt deeply a personal indebtedness to K\u014dy\u014d, and continued to admire the author throughout his life.\nEarly career.\nKy\u014dka's first published work, , was serialized beginning in May 1893 in Kyoto's \"Hi no De\" newspaper. Apparently it was very unpopular and the editor requested the story be dropped immediately; however, due to K\u014dy\u014d's pleadings on the part of his young student, Ky\u014dka was allowed to print the entire story. The next year the story was resold to the Kaga, Ishikawa \"Hokuriku Shinpo\", once again for serialization. This time Ky\u014dka's work gained some favorable criticism, though most likely through K\u014dy\u014d's active involvement.\nIn that same year, was published by \"Tantei Bunko\" and by \"Shonen Bungaku\". In August he returned to Kanazawa to get treatment for beriberi and took the opportunity to travel around Kyoto and the Hokuriku region before returning to Tokyo. He would later use the record he kept of his travels as a basis for his , though the actual record is not extant.\nJanuary 9 of 1894, his father died and he once again returned to Kanazawa. Facing an uncertain future, Ky\u014dka worried about his means of obtaining a livelihood for himself and his relatives, a grandmother and younger brother; however, with his grandmother's encouragement he returned to his work in Tokyo. In October, he published and , after substantial corrections from K\u014dy\u014d, in the \"Yomiuri Shimbun\". \"The Righteous and the Chivalrous\" would later be staged as .\nThe next year in February, in order to continue to support his family in Kanazawa, Ky\u014dka moved into the Otowa Ohashi household in Koishikawa in Tokyo to follow work on an encyclopedia. On his departure, K\u014dy\u014d treated Ky\u014dka to a Western style dinner where he taught his student to use a knife and fork.\nIn April 1895, Ky\u014dka's first, real critical success, , was published in the magazine \"Bungei Kurabu\". Thanks to Reiun Taoka's praise of the story, Ky\u014dka's next work, , appeared in \"Bungei Kurabu's\" opening pages; thus began Ky\u014dka's entry into literary circles.\nIn May 1896, Ky\u014dka paid his grandmother, now in her mid-seventies, a visit in Kanazawa, and the next year he decided to get his own house in Koishikawa and bring her to live with him. In spite of the beriberi that had not completely healed over the years, he was prolific at this time, though his work received mixed reviews. \",\" considered by many to be his most representative work and one of his most frequently read, was published in 1900.\nMature writer.\nIn 1902, suffering from gastrointestinal problems, Ky\u014dka retired to Zushi to convalesce. While there, a woman named , whom Ky\u014dka had met through a childhood friend, helped him in the kitchen. In May 1903, the two began living together in Ushigome, in a \"hanamachi\" called Kagurazaka. However, they were unable to get married immediately due to strong objections by K\u014dy\u014d.\nIn October of that same year, Ky\u014dka's mentor, Ozaki K\u014dy\u014d, died. Even on his deathbed, K\u014dy\u014d continued to worry over Ky\u014dka's future, and he continued to correct Ky\u014dka's manuscripts. Then, in 1906, Ky\u014dka lost his grandmother at the age of 87. His stomach troubles worsened and he returned to Zushi. Originally intending only to spend a summer there, he rented the house for four years. During this time he ate mainly rice gruel and sweet potatoes. In spite of illness that often left him in a dream-like state and a house that leaked when it rained, he managed to compose several stories there, including . In fact, his illness and the poor conditions at his rented house in Zushi might have contributed to the story's other-worldly atmosphere. In 1908, he went back to Tokyo and found a place in K\u014djimachi.\nBoth and were published in 1910. Kaf\u016b Nagai praised \"Samisen Canal.\" At the same time, the first five volumes of Ky\u014dka's collected works were published.With growing popularity supporting him, Ky\u014dka began the Taish\u014d period by extending his efforts into the theater. In 1913, he composed and , and the next year, was published.\nHe continued to have problems with beriberi, and in the summer of 1916, he spent a good portion of three months inside.\nFinal years.\nIn 1927, Ky\u014dka traveled to the T\u014dhoku region, where he visited Lake Towada and Akita Prefecture. The next year, he contracted pneumonia and, after recovery, visited Shuzenji hot-spring resort in the mountains in Izu, Shizuoka Prefecture. Then in 1929 he returned to Ishikawa prefecture, this time to visit the scenic Noto Peninsula.\nHe kept a number of journals of his travels, and he continued to write short stories and plays. In 1937, his last great project, was serialized in the \"Tokyo Mainichi\" and \"Osaka Mainichi\" newspapers. He was inducted the same year into the Imperial Arts Society.\nFinally his ill-health took its toll, and, on 7 September 1939, at 2:45 in the morning, Izumi Ky\u014dka died of lung cancer. He is buried at Z\u014dshigaya Cemetery in Tokyo.\nLegacy.\nEccentric and superstitious, Ky\u014dka developed a reputation for writing about the grotesque and the fantastic. However, he did not use fantasy to escape from what was happening in the real world, but for criticizing it. Ky\u014dka saw humans through the lens \"of evolutionary regression, whether man into beast or adult into child,\" indicative of his critique of modern society.,\" is a tale about a monk's journey through a mountainous wilderness, encountering inexplicable and unsettling experiences. Borrowing and embellishing themes from Edo-period popular fiction, folklore and Noh drama, more than half of Ky\u014dka's works incorporate some form of supernatural element as well as apparent symbolism in the form of explicit color coding. \"The Ruby\", first published and performed in 1913, daringly applies this chain of color-coded images to tell a beautifully poetic story of adultery, eroticism, and jealousy. Ky\u014dka's narrative style borrows from traditional rakugo storytelling, and also uses dramatic dialogues similar to that used in kabuki drama. Ky\u014dka often depicted life in the hanamachi of downtown Edo or Tokyo, which is why he is often compared with his contemporaries Nagai Kaf\u016b and Tanizaki Jun'ichir\u014d. However, Ky\u014dka makes much more use of a complex plot and suspense in his narrative. Another thematic concept strong in his writings is that of a beautiful older woman taking care of a young man.\nHis plays are particularly popular in Japan: such works as , , and are performed regularly. This was not always the case, however, as few of his plays were performed while he was alive. His plays only became popular in the 1950s, but some scholars attribute his lasting impact to dramatizations and adaptations of his prose fiction, usually done by other authors.\nThe Izumi Ky\u014dka Prize for Literature is a literary award established by the city of Kanazawa, first awarded in 1973 on the hundredth anniversary of Ky\u014dka's birth."}
{"id": "732608", "revid": "15970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732608", "title": "External Tank", "text": ""}
{"id": "732609", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732609", "title": "Vall\u00e9e-de-l\u2018Or Regional County Municipality, Quebec", "text": ""}
{"id": "732610", "revid": "97002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732610", "title": "Katayama fever", "text": ""}
{"id": "732611", "revid": "2695782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732611", "title": "Tennessee Theatre", "text": "The Tennessee Theatre is a movie palace in the downtown core of Knoxville, Tennessee, United States. The theater opened in 1928 in the 1908 Burwell Building, considered Knoxville's first skyscraper. The theater and Burwell Building were added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1982, and the theater was extensively restored in the early 2000s.\nThe Tennessee Theatre currently focuses on hosting performing arts events and classic films, and is home to the Knoxville Opera and the Knoxville Symphony Orchestra. The theater is managed by AC Entertainment.\nPerformances.\nThe Tennessee Theatre offers a wide range of performing arts events and classic films to the public. The theater is managed by AC Entertainment and is home to the Knoxville Opera, and the Knoxville Symphony Orchestra.\nAfter the failed \"Broadway in Knoxville\" series at the Knoxville Civic Coliseum finally came to an end due to a lack of profit, quality 'Broadway-style' entertainment was transferred to the Tennessee Theatre for a 2008-2009 season. The series, now presented by the Tennessee Theatre, was renamed \"Broadway at the Tennessee\" and kicked off with Fred Ebb's \"Chicago\". Productions at The Tennessee Theatre included \"Movin' Out, Hairspray, Jesus Christ Superstar, \", and \"Stomp.\"\nHistory.\nThe Burwell Building was completed in 1908; the Tennessee Theatre was constructed inside it during 1927\u20131928.\nThe theater was designed by Chicago architects Graven &amp; Mayger in the Spanish-Moorish style, although the design incorporates elements from all parts of the world: Czechoslovak crystals in the French-style chandeliers, Italian terrazzo flooring in the Grand Lobby, and Oriental influences in the carpet and drapery patterns. It was built by George A. Fuller, another Chicago native, who also built the Flatiron Building in New York City. By this point, the theater was turning out to be an almost all-Chicago project, and Fuller broke ground on November 1, 1927. On Christmas Day the \"News-Sentinel\" reported that the theater was pouring concrete.\nThe theater first opened on October 1, 1928, and with about 2,000 seats in the auditorium, it was billed as \"Knoxville's Grand Entertainment Palace\". The theater was one of the first public buildings in Knoxville to have air conditioning, and it also featured a Wurlitzer organ.\nDuring its heyday, the theater played host to a few world movie premieres, including \"So This is Love\" (1953), and the adaptation of James Agee's \"All the Way Home\" (1963). After a refurbishment in 1966, the theater's seating capacity was reduced to 1,545.\nThe theater changed owners several times over its life, and eventually closed for the first time in 1977. Thereafter it was open and closed intermittently for the remainder of the late 1970s. \nRestoration.\nThe theatre was purchased along with the building by local radio company Dick Broadcasting in 1981, who started a renovation effort to prepare it for the 1982 World's Fair. On April 1, 1982, the theater was placed in the National Register of Historic Places.\nThe Historic Tennessee Theatre Foundation was formed in 1996 and Dick Broadcasting donated the theater to the non-profit. It was designated \"The Official State Theatre of Tennessee.\" In 2001, the Foundation announced a campaign to completely restore and renovate the theater. The $29.3 million project was funded through public and private donations with the help of $6.3 million in tax credits. The theater closed for renovations in June 2003 to completely restore it to its original state.\nRenovations included expansions of the stage depth via a cantilever two stories above State street, which accommodated larger and more elaborate productions, a custom orchestra shell to enhance the acoustics of the new larger stage, an enlarged orchestra pit, upgraded dressing room facilities, modernization of the lighting, rigging, and other theatrical equipment, the installations of elevators, and a new marquee. The restorations included new carpets, draperies, and lighting fixtures that duplicated the original designs, and historically accurate restoration of all plaster and paint surfaces throughout the lobby, lounges, foyers, and the auditorium. Integration of acoustic treatments into the restored auditorium and lobby, and a substantially improved exterior sound isolation system were included in the restoration design. Seating capacity is now at 1,645 patrons. The design team for this renovation effort was led by McCarty Holsaple Architects of Knoxville, Tennessee and included Westlake Reed Leskosky Architects of Cleveland, Ohio (now DLR Group).\nThe theater reopened on January 14, 2005 and had a near sold-out season. In 2013 the Tennessee Theatre announced the sale of its one millionth ticket since the restoration.\nMighty Wurlitzer.\nThe Wurlitzer organ was installed in the Tennessee Theatre at the time of its opening in 1928. It was built by the Rudolph Wurlitzer Company in North Tonawanda, New York, and cost about $50,000 at the time.\nThe organist at the Tennessee is always advertised as the star of the show, and the first organist was Miss Jean Wilson, whose name appeared on the marquee alongside early films. Later House Organists include William T. Snyder and current performer Freddie Brabson.\nIn October 2000, virtually the entire organ was shipped to Reno, Nevada, to master organ rebuilder Ken Crome, who restored the instrument piece by piece. Artisans and craftsmen returned the organ's appearance to its original 1928 color scheme and design. The chambers on either side of the stage, which houses the pipes, were replastered to fully ensure the protection and preservation of the restored instrument.\nThe Wurlitzer returned to Knoxville in August 2001 and was re-installed over the course of the next month. Theater organist Lyn Larsen was involved in the configuration and tonal regulation of the organ, and was the first to publicly perform it at a gala concert on October 1, 2001.\nIn popular culture.\nPortions of the 1999 film \"October Sky\" were filmed in and around Knoxville, and the facade of the theater can be seen during a scene in which the main characters go to the movies.\nThe 2017 film \"The Last Movie Star\" was mostly filmed in Knoxville. Several scenes were filmed inside the Tennessee Theatre grand lobby, portrayed as a fictional grand hotel lobby in the film. "}
{"id": "732612", "revid": "52013533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732612", "title": "National Endowment for the Humanities", "text": "The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) is an independent federal agency of the U.S.\u00a0government, established by the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965 (), dedicated to supporting research, education, preservation, and public programs in the humanities. The NEH is housed in the Constitution Center at 400 7th St SW, Washington, D.C. From 1979 to 2014, NEH was at 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., in the Nancy Hanks Center at the Old Post Office.\nHistory and purpose.\nThe NEH provides grants for high-quality humanities projects to cultural institutions such as museums, archives, libraries, colleges, universities, public television, and radio stations, and to individual scholars. According to its mission statement: \"Because democracy demands wisdom, NEH serves and strengthens our republic by promoting excellence in the humanities and conveying the lessons of history to all Americans.\" \nThe NEH was created in 1965 as a sub-agency of the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities, which today also includes the National Endowment for the Arts, the Institute of Museum and Library Services, and the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities. NEH was based upon recommendation of the National Commission on the Humanities, convened in 1963 with representatives from three US scholarly and educational associations, the Phi Beta Kappa Society, the American Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and the Council of Graduate Schools.\nThe agencies stated purpose is to create incentives for excellent work in the humanities by:\nAs part of its mandate to support humanities programs in every US state and territory, the agency supports a network of private, nonprofit affiliates, the 56 humanities councils in the states and territories of the United States.\nAs of April 1, 2025, the agency was reportedly asked by the Department of Government Efficiency to reduce their staffing by up to 80%. At least 1,200 Biden-era grants were cancelled the following week, including funding to state and jurisdictional humanities councils and a large percentage of staff put on administrative leave.\nJim Leach's tenure as NEH chair (2009\u20132013).\nThe ninth NEH chair was Jim Leach. President Obama nominated the former Iowa congressman, a Republican, to chair the NEH on June 3, 2009; the Senate confirmed his appointment in August 2009. Leach began his term as the NEH chair on August 12, 2009, and stepped down in May 2013. Between November 2009 and May 2011, Leach conducted the American \"Civility Tour\" to call attention to the need to restore reason and civility back into politics, a goal that in his words was \"central to the humanities.\" Leach visited each of the 50 states, speaking at venues ranging from university and museum lecture halls to hospitals for veterans, to support the return of non-emotive, civil exchange and rational consideration of other viewpoints. According to Leach, \"Little is more important...than establishing an ethos of thoughtfulness and decency of expression in the public square. Words reflect emotion as well as meaning. They clarify\u2014or cloud\u2014thought and energize action, sometimes bringing out the better angels in our nature, sometimes lesser instincts.\"\nWilliam Adams' tenure as NEH chair (2014\u20132017).\nThe tenth chair of the NEH was William Adams, who served from 2014 to 2017. President Obama nominated Adams on April 4, 2014; Adams was confirmed by the Senate in a voice vote on July 9, 2014. Adams appointed Margaret (Peggy) Plympton as the deputy NEH chair in January 2015.\nBefore Adams's appointment, the NEH was headed by Acting Chair Carole M. Watson. Adams resigned his appointment on May 23, 2017, when he cited accomplishments under the \"Common Good\" initiative and the appointment of new administration officials.\nJon Parrish Peede's tenure as NEH Chair (2018\u20132022).\nAppointed under Donald Trump, from 2018 to 2022, Jon Parrish Peede served as Chair of the NEH. On February 10, 2020, the NEH was presented by the Trump administration with a FY2021 budget that included a planned dissolution of the agency.\nShelly Lowe's tenure as NEH Chair (2022\u20132025).\nPlans to close the agency were halted under the Biden administration and the NEH continues to operate and provides funding for various projects. In 2022, Shelly Lowe was confirmed as the chairman of the NEH. She is the first Native American to lead the agency. Congress appropriated US$180 million for the NEH in FY2022, and US$207 million in 2023.\nLowe resigned from her position in March 2025. A spokesman for the agency said Lowe left \"at the direction of President Trump\". Michael McDonald, the NEH's general counsel, is serving as acting chairman as of March 12, 2025.\nLeadership and initiatives.\nGovernance.\nThe Endowment is directed by the NEH chair. Advising the chair is the National Council on the Humanities, a board of 26\u00a0distinguished private citizens who are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate. The National Council members serve staggered six-year terms.\nThe NEH chair.\nThe Endowment is directed by a chair, who has legal authority to approve all recommendations and award grants and cooperative agreements. The chair is nominated by the president and confirmed with the advice and consent of the U.S. Senate. The chair's decisions are informed by recommendations from the National Council on the Humanities, peer-reviewers who are selected to read each project proposal submitted to the Endowment, as well as by the Endowment's staff.\nNational Council on the Humanities.\nThe council is composed of 27 members, 26 appointed by the president of the United States with the consent of the United States Senate and the chairperson of the NEH, who also serves as chair of the council. The twenty-six appointed by the President are selected from among private citizens of the United States who are recognized for their broad knowledge of, expertise in, or commitment to the humanities, and have established records of distinguished service and scholarship or creativity and in a manner which will provide a comprehensive representation of the views of scholars and professional practitioners in the humanities and of the public throughout the United States. In making these appointments, the President shall give due regard to equitable representation of women, minorities, and individuals with disabilities who are involved in the humanities, and may give consideration to such recommendations as may from time to time be submitted to him by leading national organizations concerned with the humanities.\nThese are appointed to serve terms of six years. The terms are staggered so a number of terms end January 26 every other year. The members are not eligible for reappointment during the two-year period following the expiration of their term. However, they may continue to serve on the council after their term's expiration until a successor takes office. Fourteen members of the council constitutes a quorum.\nCurrent council members.\nThe current council members :\nNominations.\nPresident Biden has nominated the following to fill seats on the commission. They await Senate confirmation.\nMajor program offices.\nThe NEH has six grant-making divisions and offices:\nThe Office of Challenge Grants, dissolved in 2017, administered grants intended to support capacity building and encourage fundraising in humanities institutions. The Division of Preservation and Access now offers a grant program that is similar to previous programs in the Challenge Grants office.\nSpecial initiatives.\nThese are special priorities of the endowment that indicate critical areas of the humanities as identified by the NEH chair. They differ from the divisions of the endowment in that they do not sponsor or coordinate specific grant programs.\nBridging Cultures initiative.\nBridging Cultures was an NEH initiative that explored ways the humanities promote understanding and mutual respect for people with diverse histories, cultures, and perspectives. Projects supported through this initiative focused on cultures globally as well as within the United States.\nStanding Together.\nThis initiative, launched in 2014, marks a priority to make awards that promote understanding of the military experience and to support returning veterans.\nWe the People.\n\"We the People\" was an NEH special funding stream initiated by NEH chair Coles, using dedicated funds available to each chair of the NEH, which was designed to encourage and enhance the teaching, study, and understanding of American history, culture, and democratic principles. The initiative supports projects and programs that explore significant events and themes in American nation's history, which advance knowledge of the principles that define America.\nAccording to NEH, the initiative led a renaissance in knowledge about American history and principles among all US citizens. The initiative was launched on Constitution Day, September 17, 2002, and active through 2009.\nNotable projects.\nSince 1965, the NEH has sponsored many projects, including:\nAwards.\nJefferson Lecture.\nSince 1972, the NEH has sponsored the Jefferson Lecture in the Humanities, which it describes as \"the highest honor the federal government confers for distinguished intellectual achievement in the humanities.\" The Jefferson Lecturer is selected each year by the National Council on the Humanities. The honoree delivers a lecture in Washington, D.C., during the spring, and receives an honorarium of $10,000. The stated purpose of the honor is to recognize \"an individual who has made significant scholarly contributions in the humanities and who has the ability to communicate the knowledge and wisdom of the humanities in a broadly appealing way.\"\nNational Humanities Medal and Charles Frankel Prize.\nThe National Humanities Medal, inaugurated in 1997, honors individuals or groups whose work has deepened the nation's understanding of the humanities, broadened citizens' engagement with the humanities, or helped preserve and expand Americans' access to important resources in the humanities. Up to 12\u00a0medals can be awarded each year. From 1989 to 1996 the NEH awarded a similar prize known as the Charles Frankel Prize. The new award, a bronze medallion, was designed by David Macaulay, the 1995 winner of the Frankel Prize. Lists of the winners of the National Humanities Medal and the Frankel Prize are available at the NEH website.\n\"Humanities\" magazine.\nStarting in 1969, the NEH published a periodical called \"Humanities\"; that original incarnation was discontinued in 1978. In 1980, \"Humanities\" magazine was relaunched (). It is published six times per year, with one cover article each year dedicated to profiling that year's Jefferson Lecturer. Most of its articles have some connection to NEH activities. The magazine's editor since 2007 has been journalist and author David Skinner. From 1990 until her death in 2007, \"Humanities\" was edited by Mary Lou Beatty (who had previously been a high-ranking editor at the \"Washington Post\")."}
{"id": "732614", "revid": "35599429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732614", "title": "Molinism", "text": "Molinism, named after 16th-century Spanish Jesuit theologian Luis de Molina, is the thesis that God has middle knowledge (or \"scientia media\"): the knowledge of counterfactuals, particularly counterfactuals regarding human action. It seeks to reconcile the apparent tension of divine providence and human free will. Prominent contemporary Molinists include William Lane Craig, Alfred Freddoso, Alvin Plantinga, Michael Bergmann, Thomas P. Flint, Kenneth Keathley, Dave Armstrong, John D. Laing, Timothy A. Stratton, Kirk R. MacGregor, and J.P. Moreland.\nGod's types of knowledge.\nAccording to Kenneth Keathley, author of \"Salvation and Sovereignty: A Molinist Approach,\" Molinists argue that God perfectly accomplishes His will in the lives of genuinely free creatures through the use of His omniscience. Molinists, following Luis de Molina himself, present God's knowledge in a sequence of three logical moments.\nThe first is God's knowledge of necessary truths or natural knowledge. These truths are independent of God's will and are non-contingent. This knowledge includes the full range of logical possibilities. Examples include such statements as \"All bachelors are unmarried\" or \"X cannot be A and non-A at the same time, in the same way, at the same place\" or \"It is possible that X obtain.\"\nThe second is God's free knowledge. This type of knowledge consists of contingent truths that are dependent upon God's will, or truths that God brings about. Examples include statements such as \"God created the earth\" or something particular about this world which God has actualized. Free knowledge encompasses the future of what will happen.\nIn between God's natural and free knowledge is His \"middle knowledge\" which contains the range of possible things that would happen given certain circumstances, by which God knows what His free creatures would do in any situation. These are \"truths\" that do not have to be true, but are true without God being the primary cause of them. In \"The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", John D. Laing has provided an example of middle knowledge: \"If John Laing were given the opportunity to write an article on middle knowledge for the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, he would freely do so.\"\nMolinists have supported their case scripturally with Christ's statement in :\nThe Molinist claims that in this example, God knows what His free creatures would choose under hypothetical circumstances, namely that the Sodomites would have responded to Jesus' miracles and ministry in a way that Sodom would still have been in existence in Jesus' day, given that hypothetical situation.\nMatthew 11:23 contains what is commonly called a counterfactual of creaturely freedom. But counterfactuals are to be distinguished from foreknowledge, and middle knowledge is to be distinguished from God's knowledge of counterfactuals (because, for example, Thomists affirm that God has counterfactual knowledge). The Bible contains many examples of foreknowledge such as , where God tells Moses that the Israelites will forsake God after they are delivered from Egypt.\nSome opponents of Molinism claim that God's foreknowledge and knowledge of counterfactuals are examples of what God is going to actively bring about. That is, when Christ describes the response of the Sodomites in the aforementioned example, God was going to actively bring it about that they would remain until today. Molinists have responded to this objection by noting that scripture contains examples of God's foreknowledge of evil acts. For example, the Israelites forsaking God, or Peter's denial of Christ, are both examples of what one would call overt acts of sin. This is fallacious according to the Molinist. In order for this account of prophecy to be valid all prophecies must be wholly good, and never contain evil acts; but this is not what opponents believe to be the case. It may simply be the fact that Christ's human nature made a rational prediction of the said actions, as he once experienced beforehand from Peter, to which he replied, \"Get thee behind me Satan\".\nKnowledge of counterfactuals.\nMolinists believe that God has knowledge not only of necessary truths and contingent truths, but also of counterfactuals. (God's knowledge of counterfactuals is often referred to as his \"middle knowledge\", although the term technically encompasses more than just the knowledge of counterfactuals.) A counterfactual is a statement of the form \"If it were the case that P, it would be the case that Q.\" An example would be, \"If Bob were in Tahiti he would freely choose to go swimming instead of sunbathing.\" The Molinist claims that even if Bob is never in Tahiti, God can still know whether Bob would go swimming or sunbathing. The Molinist believes that God, using his middle knowledge and foreknowledge, surveyed all possible worlds and then actualized a particular one. God's middle knowledge of counterfactuals would play an integral part in this \"choosing\" of a particular world.\nMolinists say the logical ordering of events for creation would be as follows:\nHence, God's middle knowledge plays an important role in the actualization of the world. In fact, it seems as if God's middle knowledge of counterfactuals plays a more immediate role in perception than God's foreknowledge. William Lane Craig points out that \"without middle knowledge, God would find himself, so to speak, with knowledge of the future but without any logical prior planning of the future.\" The placing of God's middle knowledge between God's knowledge of necessary truths and God's creative decree is crucial. For if God's middle knowledge was \"after\" his decree of creation, then God would be actively causing what various creatures would do in various circumstances and thereby destroying libertarian freedom. But by placing middle knowledge (and thereby counterfactuals) \"before\" the creation decree God allows for freedom in the libertarian sense. The placing of middle knowledge logically after necessary truths, but before the creation decree also gives God the possibility to survey possible worlds and decide which world to actualize.\nCraig gives three reasons for holding that counterfactual statements are true: \"First, we ourselves often appear to know such true counterfactuals. Second, it is plausible that the Law of Conditional Excluded Middle (LCEM) holds for counterfactuals of a certain special form, usually called 'counterfactuals of creaturely freedom'. Third, the Scriptures are replete with counterfactual statements, so that the Christian theist, at least, should be committed to the truth of certain counterfactuals about free, creaturely actions.\"\nTheological implications.\nWilliam Lane Craig calls Molinism \"one of the most fruitful theological ideas ever conceived. For it would serve to explain not only God's knowledge of the future, but divine providence and predestination as well\". Under it, God retains a measure of divine providence without hindering humanity's freedom. Since God has middle knowledge, He knows what an agent would freely do in a particular situation. So, agent A, if placed in circumstance C, would freely choose option X over option Y. Thus, if God wanted to accomplish X, all God would do is, using his middle knowledge, actualize the world in which A was placed in C, and A would freely choose X. God retains an element of providence without nullifying A's choice and God's purpose (the actualization of X) is fulfilled.\nMolinists also believe it can aid one's understanding of salvation. Ever since Augustine and Pelagius there has been debate over the issue of salvation; more specifically, can God elect believers and believers still come to God freely? Protestants who lean more towards God's election to salvation and sovereignty are usually Calvinists while those who lean more towards humanity's free choice follow Arminianism. However, the Molinist can embrace both God's sovereignty and human free choice.\nTake the salvation of Agent A. God knows that if He were to place A in circumstances C, then A would freely choose to believe in Christ. So God actualizes the world where C occurs, and then A freely believes. God still retains a measure of His divine providence because He actualizes the world in which A freely chooses. But, A still retains freedom in the sense of being able to choose either option. Molinism does not affirm two contradictory propositions when it affirms both God's providence and humanity's freedom. God's providence extends to the actualization of the world in which an agent may believe upon Christ.\nDifference from Calvinism and from Arminianism.\nIn contrast to the Calvinist acrostic TULIP and the Arminian \"Five Articles of Remonstrance\", Timothy George has devised an acrostic summary for Molinism called ROSES:\nMolinism differs from Calvinism by affirming that God grants salvation, but a person has the choice to freely accept it or reject it (but God knows that if the person were put in a particular situation he or she would not reject it). This differs from Calvinistic double predestination, which states that a person's salvation is already determined by God such that he or she cannot choose otherwise or resist God's grace.\nBoth Arminianism and Molinism agree that God definitively knows how a person would react to the Gospel message, but Molinism relies on the concept of middle knowledge while Arminianism does not.\nMolinists have internal disagreements about the extent to which they agree with Calvinism, some holding to unconditional election, others holding to conditional election and others still holding to an election that is partly both. Alfred Freddoso explains: \u201cSome Molinists, including Bellarmine and Su\u00e1rez, agree with the Ba\u00f1ezians that God antecedently elects certain people to eternal glory and only then consults His middle knowledge to discover which graces will guarantee their salvation. Thus, in Peter's case, God would have chosen different graces if those He actually chose had been foreknown to be merely sufficient and not efficacious for Peter's salvation. Other Molinists, including Molina himself, vigorously reject any such antecedent absolute election of Peter to salvation. They insist instead that God simply chooses to create a world in which He infallibly foresees Peter's good use of the supernatural graces afforded him, and only then does he accept Peter among the elect in light of his free consent to those graces.\u201d Other Molinists avoid the issue altogether by holding to the view of trans-world damnation, the idea that the unsaved in this world would have rejected Christ in any world.\nDebate between Jesuit Molinists and Dominicans.\nIn 1581, a heated argument erupted between the Jesuits, who advocated Molinism, and the Dominicans, who had a different understanding of God's foreknowledge and the nature of predestination. In 1597, Pope Clement VIII established the Congregatio de Auxiliis, a committee whose purpose was to settle this controversy. In 1607, Pope Paul V ended the quarrel by forbidding each side to accuse the other of heresy, allowing both views to exist side-by-side in the Catholic Church.\nOther implications.\nThomas Flint has developed what he considers other implications of Molinism, including papal infallibility, prophecy, and prayer. William Lane Craig uses Molinism to reconcile scriptural passages warning of apostasy with passages teaching the security of believers. Craig has also used middle knowledge to explain a wide range of theological issues, such as divine providence and predestination, biblical inspiration, perseverance of the saints, and Christian particularism.\nBiblical texts for Molinism.\nMolinists have often argued that their position is the biblical one by indicating passages they understand to teach God's middle knowledge. Molina advanced the following three texts: , , and . Other passages used to support Molinism are , , , , , , , , and . William Lane Craig has argued at length that many of Christ's statements seem to indicate middle knowledge. Craig cites the following passages: , , , , and . Craig accepts that the most these texts indicate is that God has counterfactual knowledge. In order for this knowledge to be middle knowledge, it must be logically prior to God's free knowledge, something the biblical texts mentioned do not seem to affirm or deny. However, Craig argues that if God's decree were logically prior to His middle knowledge, that would \u201cmake God the author of sin and to obliterate human freedom, since in that case it is God who decrees which counterfactuals about creaturely free acts are true, including counterfactuals concerning sinful human decisions. Thus, we have good reason for thinking that if such counterfactuals are now true or false, they must have been so logically prior to God's decree.\u201d\nThomas Flint claims the twin foundations of Molinism are God's providence and man's freedom. Molinism harmonizes texts teaching God's providence (such as or ) with texts emphasizing man's choice (such as or ).\nCriticism.\nMolinism has been controversial and criticized since its inception in Molina's concordia. The Dominican Order which espoused strict Thomism criticized that novel doctrine and found fault with the \"scientia media\", which they think implies passivity, which is repugnant to Pure Act. The Thomists disputed it before the Popes, as bordering on semi-Pelagianism, and afterwards there were ten years of debate in the Congregation \"de Auxiliis\".\nThe grounding objection is at present the most debated objection to Molinism, and often considered the strongest. The argument claims that there are no metaphysical grounds for the truthfulness of counterfactuals of creaturely freedom. As Hugh J. McCann puts it:\n\"Perhaps the most serious objection against it is that there does not appear to be any way God could come by such knowledge. Knowledge, as we have seen, is not merely a matter of conceiving a proposition and correctly believing it to be true. It requires justification: one must have good reasons for believing. But what justification could God have for believing the propositions that are supposed to constitute middle knowledge? The truth of subjunctives of freedom cannot be discerned a priori, for they are contingent. It is not a necessary truth that if placed in circumstances C, I will decide to attend the concert tonight. Nor can we allow that God might learn the truth of C from my actual behavior \u2014 that is, by observing that I actually do, in circumstances C, decide to attend the concert. For God could not make observations like this without also finding out what creative decisions He is actually going to make, which would destroy the whole purpose of middle knowledge.\u201d\nThus, there are no \"truth makers\" that ground counterfactuals. Opponents to middle knowledge claim that the historical antecedent of any possible world does not determine the truthfulness of a counterfactual for a creature, if that creature is free in the libertarian sense. (Molinists naturally accept this, but deny that this entails that counterfactuals of creaturely freedom lack truth values.)\nMany philosophers and theologians who embrace the grounding objection prefer to claim that instead of counterfactuals of freedom being true, probable counterfactuals are true instead. So instead of truths of the following sort: \"God knows that in circumstance C creature X will freely do A\" God knows truths of this sort: \"God knows that in circumstances C creature X would probably do A.\" Yet, as Edward Wierenga has pointed out, probable counterfactuals are also contingent truths and fall victim to the same grounding objection.\nMolinists have responded to the aforementioned argument two ways. First, as William Lane Craig argues \"[I]n order for a counterfactual of freedom to be true, it is not required that the events to which they refer actually exist; all that is required is that they \"would\" exist under the specified conditions.\" The idea here is that if we imagine God creating multiple universes in multiple dimensions and giving people libertarian free will in the various universes and letting events all play out, we would have no problem grounding counterfactuals of freedom based on the events in the various universes. But why should God need to create such universes to know how events would unfold, and couldn't how they would turn out ground statements about how they would turn out?\nFurther objections at this point lead to a second line of response. Alvin Plantinga responds to the grounding objection by saying \"It seems to me much clearer that some counterfactuals of freedom are at least possibly true than that the truth of propositions must, in general, be grounded in this way.\" William Lane Craig follows up on this by pointing out the burden of proof the grounding objector bears. The grounding objection \"asserts that there are no true counterfactuals about how creatures would freely act under any given set of circumstances. This assertion is no mere ostensibly undercutting defeater of Molinism, but a putatively rebutting defeater. It makes a bold and positive assertion and therefore requires warrant in excess of that which attends the Molinist assumption that there are true counterfactuals about creaturely free actions\" and that \"Anti\u2013Molinists have not even begun the task of showing that counterfactuals of creaturely freedom are members of the set of propositions or statements which require truth\u2013makers if they are to be true.\" Thus the grounding objectors must prove a universal negative regarding the falsity of counterfactuals of freedom or they must explain their theory of the basis for truth and prove that theory true.\nThe difference in perspectives here may be briefly described in the following way. According to critics, the way in which an agent will make a free choice inherently cannot be known apart from observation of the choice being actualized. God may be able to observe these choices via prescience, but even He must still observe them to know them. Therefore, God cannot know what we will do, unless He sees the future. The Molinist position, exemplified by Craig in the preceding paragraph, is 1) to argue this requires potentially heretical arguments relating to a limitation of divine omniscience, and 2) that a choice can be free, and yet the way in which an agent will make that choice can be known apart from observation of the actualized choice itself (and even apart from the actualization of the choice entirely). Critics maintain that this is no longer really a free choice: if it is known of someone that \"If she were offered a dollar, she would take it,\" apart from actually offering that person a dollar, then she is not free to take or not take that dollar. The question hinges upon whether, by the definition of a free choice, it is possible to know which choice will be made independently from the actualization of that choice."}
{"id": "732615", "revid": "17794675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732615", "title": "Kayser\u2013Fleischer ring", "text": "Kayser\u2013Fleischer rings (KF rings) are dark rings that appear to encircle the cornea of the eye. They are due to copper deposition in the Descemet's membrane as a result of particular liver diseases. They are named after German ophthalmologists Bernhard Kayser and Bruno Fleischer who first described them in 1902 and 1903. Initially thought to be due to the accumulation of silver, they were first demonstrated to contain copper in 1934.\nPresentation.\nThe rings, which consist of copper deposits where the cornea meets the sclera, in Descemet's membrane, first appear as a crescent at the top of the cornea. Eventually, a second crescent forms below, at the \"six o'clock position\", and ultimately completely encircles the cornea.\nAssociations.\nKayser\u2013Fleischer rings are a sign of Wilson's disease, which involves abnormal copper handling by the liver resulting in copper accumulation in the body and is characterised by abnormalities of the basal ganglia of the brain, liver cirrhosis, splenomegaly, involuntary movements, muscle rigidity, psychiatric disturbances, dystonia and dysphagia. The combination of neurological symptoms, a low blood ceruloplasmin level and KF rings is diagnostic of Wilson's disease.\nOther causes of KF rings are cholestasis (obstruction of the bile ducts), primary biliary cirrhosis and \"cryptogenic\" cirrhosis (cirrhosis in which no cause can be identified).\nDiagnosis.\nAs Kayser\u2013Fleischer rings do not cause any symptoms, it is common for them to be identified during investigations for other medical conditions. In certain situations, they are actively sought; in that case, the early stages may be detected by slit lamp examination before they become visible to the naked eye."}
{"id": "732616", "revid": "24043204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732616", "title": "Barbonymus schwanenfeldii", "text": "tinfoil barb are known to be omnivore.this species is said to eat insects like flies ,ants etc also know to eat eggs and fries of other aquarium fishes"}
{"id": "732620", "revid": "39450321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732620", "title": "National Socialist Program", "text": "The National Socialist Program, also known as the Nazi Party Program, the 25-point Program or the 25-point Plan (), was the party program of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP). Adolf Hitler announced the party's program on 24 February 1920 before approximately 2,000 people in the Munich Festival of the Hofbr\u00e4uhaus. The National Socialist Program originated at a DAP congress in Vienna, then was taken to Munich by the civil engineer and theorist Rudolf Jung, who having explicitly supported Hitler had been expelled from Czechoslovakia because of his political agitation.\nAccording to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, the 25-point program \"remained the party's official statement of goals, though in later years many points were ignored\".\nHistory.\nIn Munich, on 24 February 1920, Adolf Hitler publicly proclaimed the 25-point Program, when the party was still known as the DAP (German Workers' Party). They retained the National Socialist Program upon renaming themselves as the National Socialist German Workers Party (NSDAP) in February 1920 and it remained the Party's official program. The 25-point Program was a German adaptation \u2014 by Hitler, Anton Drexler, Gottfried Feder and Dietrich Eckart \u2014 of Rudolf Jung's Austro\u2013Bohemian program. Unlike the Austrians, the Germans did not claim to be either liberal or democratic and opposed neither political reaction nor the aristocracy, yet advocated democratic institutions (i.e. the German central parliament) and voting rights solely for Germans \u2014 implying that a Nazi government would retain popular suffrage.\nIn the course of pursuing public office, the agrarian failures of the 1920s prompted Hitler to explain further the \"true\" meaning of Point 17 (land reform, legal land expropriation for public utility, abolishment of the land value tax and proscription of land speculation), in the hope of winning the farmers' votes in the May 1928 elections. Hitler disguised the implicit contradictions of Point 17 of the National Socialist Program by explaining that \"gratuitous expropriation concerns only the creation of legal opportunities, to expropriate, if necessary, land which has been illegally acquired or is not administered from the viewpoint of the national welfare. This is directed primarily against the Jewish land-speculation companies\".\nThroughout the 1920s, other members of the NSDAP, seeking ideological consistency, sought either to change or to replace the National Socialist Program. In 1923, the economist Gottfried Feder proposed a 39-point program retaining some original policies and introducing new policies. Hitler suppressed every instance of programmatic change by refusing to broach the matters after 1925, because the National Socialist Program was \"inviolable\", hence immutable.\nInterpretation.\nThe Austrian monarchist Erik von Kuehnelt-Leddihn proposed that the 25-point Program was pro-labour: \"[T]he program championed the right to employment, and called for the institution of profit sharing, confiscation of war profits, prosecution of usurers and profiteers, nationalization of trusts, communalization of department stores, extension of the old-age pension system, creation of a national education program of all classes, prohibition of child labour, and an end to the dominance of investment capital\". Whereas historian William Brustein proposes that said program points and party founder Drexler's statements indicate that the Nazi Party (NSDAP) originated as a working-class political party.\nHistorian Karl Dietrich Bracher writes that to Hitler, the program was \"little more than an effective, persuasive propaganda weapon for mobilizing and manipulating the masses. Once it had brought him to power, it became pure decoration: 'unalterable,' yet unrealized in its demands for nationalization and expropriation, land reform and 'breaking the shackles of finance capital.' Yet it nonetheless fulfilled its role as backdrop and pseudo-theory, against which the future dictator could unfold his rhetorical and dramatic talents.\"\nHe summarizes the program by saying that its components were \"hardly new\" and that \"German, Austrian and Bohemian proponents of anti-capitalist, nationalist-imperialist, anti-Semitic movements were resorted to in its compilation\"; that a call to \"breaking the shackles of finance capital\" was added in deference to the \"idee fixe\" of Gottfried Feder, one of the party's founding members; and that Hitler provided the militancy of the stance against the Treaty of Versailles and the insistence that the points could not be changed and were to be the permanent foundation of the party. Bracher characterizes the points as being \"phrased like slogans; they lent themselves to the concise sensational dissemination of the 'anti' position on which the party thrived. ... Ideologically speaking, [the program] was a wooly, eclectic mixture of political, social, racist, national-imperialist wishful thinking...\"\nEnglish Translation.\nThe program of the National\u2011Socialist German Workers\u2019 Party is a schedule. The leaders refuse to draft new goals after the ones listed in the program are achieved, solely for the purpose of enabling the party to continue to exist by artificially increasing the dissatisfaction of the masses.\nThe leaders of the party promise to stand up for the execution of the above points ruthlessly, if necessary at the cost of their own lives.\nMunich, February 24, 1920 \u2014 signed Adolf Hitler.\nNote:\nIn response to the mendacious interpretations of point 17 of the NSDAP program by our opponents, the following statement is necessary:\n\u201cSince the NSDAP stands on the principle of private property, it goes without saying that the passage \u2018expropriation without compensation\u2019 refers only to the creation of legal possibilities to expropriate land that has been acquired unlawfully or is not managed in accordance with the interests of the people, if necessary. This is therefore directed primarily against Jewish real estate speculation companies.\u201d\nMunich, April 13, 1928 \u2014 signed Adolf Hitler."}
{"id": "732624", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732624", "title": "Kayser-Fleisher rings", "text": ""}
{"id": "732625", "revid": "202276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732625", "title": "Sainte-Julie", "text": "Sainte-Julie may refer to:"}
{"id": "732626", "revid": "16138468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732626", "title": "Devario aequipinnatus", "text": ""}
{"id": "732627", "revid": "38001712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732627", "title": "Rochester College", "text": ""}
{"id": "732628", "revid": "39191556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732628", "title": "Klatskin tumor", "text": "A Klatskin tumor (or hilar cholangiocarcinoma) is a cholangiocarcinoma (cancer of the biliary tree) occurring at the confluence of the right and left hepatic bile ducts. The disease was named after Gerald Klatskin, who in 1965 described 15 cases and found some characteristics for this type of cholangiocarcinoma.\nCause.\nThe cause of cholangiocarcinoma has not been defined. A number of pathologic conditions, however, resulting in either acute or chronic biliary tract epithelial injury may predispose to malignant change. Primary sclerosing cholangitis, an idiopathic inflammatory condition of the biliary tree, has been associated with the development of cholangiocarcinoma in up to 40% of patients. Congenital biliary cystic disease, such as choledochal cysts or Caroli's disease, has also been associated with malignant transformation in up to 25% of cases. These conditions appear to be related to an anomalous pancreatico-biliary duct junction and, perhaps, are related to the reflux of pancreatic secretions into the bile duct. Chronic biliary tract parasitic infection, seen commonly in Southeast Asia due to \"Clonorchis sinensis\" and \"Opisthorchis viverrini\", has also been identified as a risk factor. Although gallstones and cholecystectomy are not thought to be associated with an increased incidence of cholangiocarcinoma, hepatolithiasis and choledocholithiasis may predispose to malignant change. Further, industrial exposure to asbestos and nitrosamines, and the use of the radiologic contrast agent, Thorotrast (thorium dioxide), are considered to be risk factors for the development of cholangiocarcinoma.\nDiagnosis.\nLevels of the tumor markers carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA 19\u20139), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CA 125 are abnormally high in the bloodstreams of patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and Klatskin tumor. The serum CA 19\u20139 in particular may be very high. The ultrasonography (and the use of Doppler modes) permit definitive diagnosis of a large number of lesions and the involvement of hepatic hilum, but it is less sensitive than CT or MRI in detecting focal lesions. Ultrasonography always detects dilatation of the bile ducts, but more rarely the tumor itself.\nMagnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is a good non-invasive alternative to these other procedure. This technique demonstrates hepatic parenchyma and it's accurate for detecting nodular carcinomas and infiltrating lesions.\nTreatment.\nBecause of their location, these tumors tend to become symptomatic late in their development and therefore are not usually resectable at the time of presentation. Complete resection of the tumor, especially in early-stage disease, offers hope of long-term survival. However, patients that are candidates for resectability are few and moreover many of these patients will have a relapse despite apparent removal of the tumor. The type of surgery and the extent of the resection depend on the location of the tumor and the degree of extension. In some cases, the obstructive jaundice may present early and compel the patient to seek help. More often, liver resection is not a viable option because many patients are of advanced age, have multiple co-pathologies and are therefore at high risk.\nOf late there has been renewed interest in liver transplantation from deceased donors along with add on therapy. Prognosis remains poor.\nEpidemiology.\nApproximately 15,000 new cases of liver and biliary tract carcinoma are diagnosed annually in the United States, with roughly 10% of these cases being Klatskin tumors. Cholangiocarcinoma accounts for approximately 2% of all cancer diagnoses, with an overall incidence of 1.2/100,000 individuals. Two-thirds of cases occur in patients over the age of 65, with a nearly ten-fold increase in patients over 80 years of age. The incidence is similar in both men and women. "}
{"id": "732629", "revid": "6056090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732629", "title": "William Wentworth (disambiguation)", "text": "William Wentworth (1790\u20131872) was an Australian statesman, explorer, barrister, newspaper publisher, politician and landowner.\nWilliam Wentworth may also refer to:"}
{"id": "732630", "revid": "13157623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732630", "title": "Kussmaul breathing", "text": "Kussmaul breathing is a deep and labored breathing pattern often associated with severe metabolic acidosis, particularly diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) but also kidney failure. It is a form of hyperventilation, which is any breathing pattern that reduces carbon dioxide in the blood due to increased rate or depth of respiration.\nIn metabolic acidosis, breathing is first rapid and shallow but as acidosis worsens, breathing gradually becomes deep, labored and gasping. It is this latter type of breathing pattern that is referred to as Kussmaul breathing.\nTerminology.\nAdolf Kussmaul referred to breathing when metabolic acidosis was sufficiently severe for the respiratory rate to be normal or reduced. This definition is also followed by several other sources, including for instance Merriam-Webster, which defines Kussmaul breathing as \"abnormally slow deep respiration characteristic of air hunger and occurring especially in acidotic states\". Other sources, however, use the term Kussmaul respiration also when acidosis is less severe, in which case breathing is rapid.\nKussmaul breathing occurs only in advanced stages of acidosis, and is not commonly seen. Rapid, shallow breathing may be observed in less severe cases but Kussmaul breathing is a characteristic deep, gasping - even desperate - manner of respiratory distress.\nHistory.\nKussmaul breathing is named for Adolf Kussmaul, the 19th century German physician who first noted it among patients with advanced diabetes mellitus.\nMechanism.\nKussmaul breathing is respiratory compensation for a metabolic acidosis, most commonly occurring in diabetics in diabetic ketoacidosis. Blood gases of a patient with Kussmaul breathing will show a low partial pressure of CO2 in conjunction with low bicarbonate because of a forced increased respiration (blowing off the carbon dioxide). Base excess is severely negative. The patient feels an urge to breathe deeply, an \"air hunger\", and it appears almost involuntary.\nA metabolic acidosis soon produces hyperventilation, but at first it will tend to be rapid and relatively shallow. Kussmaul breathing develops as the acidosis grows more severe. Indeed, Kussmaul originally identified this type of breathing as a sign of coma and imminent death in diabetic patients.\nDuration of fasting, presence or absence of liver enlargement and Kussmaul breathing provide clues to the differential diagnosis of high blood sugar in the inborn errors of metabolism."}
{"id": "732631", "revid": "1294282020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732631", "title": "Coleford, Gloucestershire", "text": "Coleford is a market town in the west of the Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire, England, east of the Welsh border and close to the Wye Valley. It is the administrative centre of the Forest of Dean district. The combined population of the town's two electoral wards at the 2011 census was 8,359. The population of the town's parish was 9,273 in the 2021 Census. The parish includes the village of Baker's Hill.\nHistory.\nColeford was originally a tithing in the north-east corner of Newland parish. The settlement arose at a ford through which charcoal and iron ore were probably carried. By the mid-14th century, hamlets called Coleford and Whitecliff had grown up in the valley of Thurstan's Brook. Coleford had eight or more houses in 1349 and was described as a street in 1364. It had a place of worship by 1489. In 1642 the commander of a parliamentary garrison in Coleford started a market in the town, as the nearest chartered market in Monmouth was under royalist control.\nColeford soon saw some action in the English Civil War. On 20 February 1643, Lord Herbert, the Earl of Worcester's eldest son and the King's Lieutenant-General of South Wales, marched through Coleford heading for Gloucester, at the head of an army of 500 horse and 1500 foot. At Coleford their progress was impeded by a troop of Parliamentarians under Colonel Berrowe, aided by a disorderly group of country people. A skirmish ensued, in which the market-house was burnt and Major-General Lawday, who commanded the foot, and two other officers were shot dead from a window. Colonel Brett was then put in command of the foot, Lord John Somerset continuing at the head of the horse. The Royalists forced a passage through, after capturing Lieutenant-Colonel Winter, together with some other officers and soldiers, and so putting the Parliamentarians to flight. They then marched unimpeded to Gloucester.\nAfter the Restoration, a market was granted in 1661 and a new market house built in 1679. Much building took place in the town, which was thought by 1710 to have 160 houses. Of the older surviving buildings in the market place, the \"Old White Hart Inn\" dates from the 17th century. In the late 18th century and early 19th, the town expanded along its other streets and most of its older houses were rebuilt. The \"Angel Inn\", which had opened by the 1650s, was re-fronted or rebuilt around 1800. For many years it housed an excise office. In the mid-18th century it was the town's principal coaching inn and used for public meetings and assemblies. The number of public houses increased as the town grew in importance. By 1830 there were seven or eight, most of them in the market place, and also a larger number of beerhouses.\nThe market house (or town hall) was rebuilt on a larger scale in 1866. Also in the market place was the church, which was rebuilt on an octagonal plan in 1820, but proved too small for the growing congregation and was pulled down in 1882, its tower being retained for a clock tower. A much larger church, St John the Evangelist's, was built on a hillside overlooking the town. This church was closed in 2016 and its building put up for sale. Expansion continued in piecemeal fashion throughout the 20th century, through both council and private development. Traffic congestion in the market place was eased by demolition of the town hall in 1968 and the introduction of a gyro system around the clock tower.\nIndustry.\nIron production in Coleford dates back to the Middle Ages. This produced large quantities of waste material or cinders. Some formed prominent mounds, which by the late 17th century were reworked to provide iron ore for the furnaces, which had become more efficient by then. The medieval ironworks were moveable forges operating on the royal demesne woodland of the Forest of Dean. An ore smithy or furnace was operating at Whitecliff in 1361, and the hamlet had several in the 15th and 16th centuries. In the later Middle Ages, iron was also worked in Coleford town, where there was a furnace next to the chapel in 1539.\nThere was coalmining to the north and east of Coleford from the 16th century. Limestone was also quarried at the south-west end of Whitecliff before the 17th century. Lime kilns operated at Whitecliff, and Scowles, which supplied much lime to Monmouthshire.\nIn 1798, work began on Whitecliff Ironworks on the south-western edge of Coleford. The furnace there probably began firing in 1801 or 1802, and a second one beside it before 1808. The output was limited by the quality of coke required. In 1809 David Mushet, a noted metallurgist, was employed to increase productivity, but the works remained unprofitable and Mushet withdrew from the venture after a few months. The furnaces were abandoned several years later, perhaps by 1812 and certainly by 1816. The surviving ruins can be viewed by the public.\nTransport.\nColeford was on the route of a tramway that opened in 1812 to link mines in the Forest with the River Wye at Redbrook and Monmouth. This continued in use until its track east of Coleford was lifted in the late 1870s.\nThe first railway to reach Coleford, a branch line from Parkend, was opened by the Severn and Wye Railway Company in 1875. It ran through Milkwall to a station on the south-east side of the town. A second railway, the Coleford Railway from Monmouth, used parts of the old tramway route and was completed in 1883. It included a short tunnel at Whitecliff and crossed the Newland road to reach a station next to that of the Severn &amp; Wye Co. A junction was made between the two railways in 1884, after the Monmouth line was taken over by the Great Western Railway. The Severn and Wye line ceased passenger services in 1929. And was then closed in 1967. The track between Whitecliff and Parkend was removed by 1971. Some railway buildings at Coleford, including a goods shed, were incorporated in the Coleford Great Western Railway Museum that opened in 1988.\nThe nearest railway station today is Lydney (8 miles, 13\u00a0km).\nChurches.\nThe Anglican Holy Trinity Church near the centre of Coleford was built in 1831. It has services on Sunday and Wednesday. Coleford Baptist Church has a Sunday service, as does the town's Pentecostal Church. Both have Facebook pages.\nToday.\nColeford adapted more ably to the mine closures of the 1950s than its neighbour, Cinderford. Their prime location in the heart of the Forest make them popular with walkers and cyclists and the local council has made moves to encourage further visitors. The large factory in the town, originally called Carters, then Beechams, then GlaxoSmithKline, is now owned by the Japanese firm Suntory. It is the sole production facility for Ribena and Lucozade. One surviving building is the former goods shed for the defunct railway line to Monmouth. This now houses the Coleford GWR Museum.\nSPP Pumps Ltd, Britain's leading pump manufacturer has its main UK manufacturing site at Coleford, where it employs over 300 people. It mainly caters to the industrial and offshore firefighting oil and gas markets, and to the UK municipal water market.\nMedia.\nLocal news and television programmes are provided by BBC West and ITV West Country. Television signals are received from the Mendip and the local relay transmitters. \nLocal radio stations are BBC Radio Gloucestershire, Heart West, Greatest Hits Radio South West, and Dean Radio, a community based radio station.\nThe town is served by the local newspaper, \"The Forester\"."}
{"id": "732632", "revid": "1312340826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732632", "title": "Apache\u2013Sitgreaves National Forests", "text": "The Apache\u2013Sitgreaves National Forests is a United States national forest which runs along the Mogollon Rim and the White Mountains in east-central Arizona and into the U.S. state of New Mexico. Formerly two forests, it is currently managed as one unit by USDA Forest Service from the Forest Supervisors Office in Springerville, Arizona. Apache\u2013Sitgreaves has over 400 species of wildlife. With its high elevation and cool summer breezes it is a popular weekend destination from the hot desert for Phoenix, Arizona, residents. The forest is divided into 5 Ranger Districts (Clifton, Alpine, Springerville, Lakeside, and Black Mesa) that span almost from Clifton, Arizona in the east-central portion of Arizona to the eastern boundary of the Coconino National Forest in north-central Arizona. The Apache\u2013Sitgreaves National Forest borders the western and northern borders of the Fort Apache Indian Reservation. It is located in parts of Greenlee, Apache, Navajo, and Coconino counties in eastern and east-central Arizona, and Catron County in western New Mexico. The more northwesterly Sitgreaves National Forest portion lies adjacent to the north side of the Fort Apache Indian Reservation and is located entirely in Arizona, within Navajo, Apache, and Coconino counties. It has a total area of . The more southeasterly and much larger Apache National Forest portion lies adjacent to the east side of the Fort Apache and the San Carlos Indian Reservations. It lies on both sides of the border with New Mexico, in Greenlee, Catron, and Apache counties. It has a total area of .\nLakes, rivers, and streams.\nApache\u2013Sitgreaves National Forests has eight notable cold water lakes and boasts numerous lakes and reservoirs and over 680 miles (1094\u00a0km) of rivers and streams. The headwaters for the Black, Little Colorado, and San Francisco rivers are in the White Mountains.\nWilderness areas.\nThere are four wilderness areas within Apache\u2013Sitgreaves National Forests. All lie within the former Apache National Forest section. Three have been officially designated by Congress as part of the National Wilderness Preservation System.\nThe fourth, the Blue Range Primitive Area, was designated as a Primitive Area by the Secretary of Agriculture in 1933. The area has been managed under the highest level of forest service protection to maintain its wilderness qualities. It was recommended that this area be included in the Blue Range Wilderness in 1971, but in 1980 Congress only acted upon an adjacent New Mexico portion within Gila National Forest.\nHistory.\nAbout 18 miles southwest of Alpine, Arizona is the Hannagan Meadow area with a lodge, trailheads, and campground. The meadow was named after Robert Hannagan, a miner and cattle rancher from Nevada. One local legend is that Hannagan was chained to a tree near the meadow until his debt of $1,200 was paid off. It was promptly paid by his son, but the name stuck. Another story suggests that Toles Cosper, a rancher from over to Luna, was riding with the young Hannagan when they came across the meadow during the 1870s. They flipped a coin to see which man they would name it after, and Hannagan won.\nIn 1909, while surveying for US Route 191, John D. Guthrie observed that \"there was neither fence nor cabin at Hannagan Meadow.\" However, with the advent of road construction on the Coronado Trail Road (later Coronado Trail Scenic Byway) tourism became a possibility, and Toles Cosper's son, DeWitt Cosper, built a lodge there in 1926. The Hannagan Meadow Lodge provided rental cabins, single rooms for rent and a general store. As of 2016, the Lodge is still in use.\nClimate.\nHannagan Meadows has a humid continental climate (Dsb). Summers are typically pleasant, with warm days and cool nights. Winters are moderately cold, with brisk days and chilly nights. Hannagan Meadows has five seasons, with Spring being the driest and Summer being the wettest. The dry part of Summer typically begins at the beginning of June, and lasts into July. The Monsoon season usually begins by mid-July (North American Monsoon) and lasts until the beginning of September, with thunderstorms being very common. Autumn begins during September, and can last to the end of November, with cool \u2013 mild days and nights beginning to dip below freezing. Winter usually begins by late November, and lasts until the end of February, but wintry days can be observed during March, and even as late as April, with heavy snowfall being common. Spring usually starts during early March, and lasts well into may, and is usually relatively dry. The highest temperature recorded in Hannagan Meadows is and occurred on August 6, 2019. The lowest temperature recorded in Hannagan Meadows is and occurred on January 7, 1989. Interestingly, the highest minimum and the lowest maximum temperatures recorded occurred in the same year, 2011, and are for the highest minimum which occurred on September 5, and for the lowest maximum which occurred on February 2. The first and last average freeze dates are June 3 and September 25, giving Hannagan Meadows a growing season of 114 days."}
{"id": "732633", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732633", "title": "Society of Mary (Marianists)", "text": "The Society of Mary (, abbreviated S.M.) is a Catholic clerical religious congregation of Pontifical Right for men (brothers and priests) commonly known as the Marianists or Marianist Brothers and Priests. Members append the post-nominal letters \"S.M.\" to their names to signify membership. Founded by William Joseph Chaminade, a priest who endured the anti-clerical persecution during the French Revolution, the Society is one of four branches of the Marianist Family, which includes the Daughters of Mary Immaculate (FMI), Alliance Mariale, and Marianist Lay Communities. The Marianists draw inspiration from Mary as a model of faith, emphasizing a spirituality of service, education, and community. They aim to share their faith, work with the marginalized, and foster holistic education of the mind, body, and soul.\nHistory.\nThe Society of Mary was founded on October 2, 1817, in Bordeaux, France, by Blessed William Joseph Chaminade, a priest driven by a vision to restore Christian vitality in post-Revolutionary France. During the French Revolution (1789\u20131799), Chaminade faced exile and persecution but remained committed to revitalizing the Church through lay and religious communities. Inspired by Mary's role in salvation history, he established the Society to form apostolic communities dedicated to education and evangelization. The Marianists received papal approval as a religious congregation in 1891, affirming their mission within the Roman Catholic Church.\nThe Society grew rapidly, establishing missions and educational institutions across Europe, North America, Latin America, Africa, and Asia. Today, it continues to adapt its mission to contemporary challenges, emphasizing inculturation and collaboration with laypeople to advance justice and reconciliation.\nMarianist charism and spirituality.\nThe Marianist charism is rooted in the spirituality of Blessed Chaminade, who saw Mary as the model of discipleship and mission. The Society's motto, \"Servire Quam Sentire\" (\"Serve with Feeling\"), reflects its commitment to compassionate service and community living. Marianists live as equals in community, whether as brothers or priests, and strive to emulate Mary's faith by fostering apostolic communities that make Jesus Christ present in every culture. Their spirituality emphasizes:\nMarianists around the world.\nAs of 2020, the Society of Mary comprises approximately 930 members (309 priests, two bishops, and over 600 brothers) across four continents and 38 countries. The Marianists prioritize inculturation, rooting themselves in local cultures, particularly in Asia and Africa, while addressing modern and postmodern cultural challenges. Their global presence includes educational institutions, retreat centers, parishes, and social justice initiatives.\nFormation process.\nMen discerning a vocation with the Society of Mary undergo a rigorous formation process to deepen their spirituality and commitment. The stages include:\nMarianists in North America.\nCanada.\nThe Marianists are active in Canada, notably through the late Archbishop Raymond Roussin, S.M., D.D., who served as head of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Vancouver from 2004 to 2009. They engage in educational and pastoral ministries, including youth programs and parish work.\nUnited States.\nThe United States hosts two Marianist provinces: the Province of the United States and the Province of Meribah.\nProvince of Meribah.\nEstablished in 1976, the Province of Meribah operates exclusively in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre on Long Island, New York. It manages an educational complex including Chaminade High School, Kellenberg Memorial High School (with the Bro. Joseph C. Fox Latin School Division for grades 6\u20138), and St. Martin de Porres Marianist School (pre-kindergarten through grade 8). The Province also operates five retreat houses: Emmanuel Retreat House, Stella Maris Retreat House, Saragossa, Meribah, and Founder's Hollow. The Provincial is Brother Joseph D. Bellizzi, S.M. The Province emphasizes prayer, education, and the motto \"Servire Quam Sentire\".\nProvince of the United States.\nThe Province of the United States updated its mission statement to reflect its commitment to Blessed Chaminade's charism:\nEmpowered by the Holy Spirit and inspired by the dynamism of Blessed Chaminade's charism, we \u2013 brothers and priests \u2013 vowed religious in the Marianist Family, live in community as equals. Through lives of prayer and Gospel service, we dedicate ourselves to the following of Jesus Christ, Son of God become Son of Mary. Wherever we are sent, we invite others to share Mary's Mission of making Christ present in every age and culture by forming persons and communities of apostolic faith that advance justice and reconciliation. Committed to education, we minister with youth and in solidarity with the poor.\nThe Province operates in Honolulu, Hawaii; St. Louis, Missouri; Dayton, Ohio; Cincinnati, Ohio; San Antonio, Texas; and Omaha, Nebraska. It manages three universities (University of Dayton, St. Mary's University, Texas, and Chaminade University), 18 high schools, 6 elementary schools, 2 middle schools, 5 retreat centers, and 7 parishes. Notable alumni include Charles J. Pedersen, 1987 Nobel laureate in chemistry, who attended the University of Dayton.\nMarianists in Europe.\nFrance.\nThe birthplace of the Society, France remains a significant hub with 112 brothers and priests across 17 communities in France, Belgium, and Tunisia, with 58 members in the Ivory Coast and Congo region. The Province of France operates eight schools, three spiritual centers (La Madeleine, St. Avold, and Le Vic), two university residences, and a scholarship program. Ministries include youth work, pastoral care, and hospital chaplaincy.\nItaly.\nThe Marianists' world headquarters is in Rome, Italy, at Via Latina 22. The General Motherhouse oversees global operations and houses the International Marianist Seminary.\nIreland.\nSince 1967, invited by Archbishop John Charles McQuaid, the Marianists have operated St. Laurence College in Loughlinstown, D\u00fan Laoghaire\u2013Rathdown, under the Province of the United States. They engage in youth ministry, school and prison chaplaincy, drug rehabilitation, peace and justice initiatives, and parish work. Four Irish Catholics have joined the Society since 1976.\nSpain.\nSince 1887, the Marianists have operated in Spain, establishing the Santa Maria Foundation in 1977 for publishing and pedagogical programs. They run 17 schools, including the prestigious Colegio del Pilar in Madrid, and others like Santa Ana y San Rafael.\nSwitzerland.\nFr. Fran\u00e7ois Kieffer, S.M., founded the Villa St. Jean International School in Fribourg, Switzerland, in 1903, which operated until 1970. The school was known for its international student body and rigorous academic programs.\nMarianists in Latin America.\nArgentina.\nSince 1932, the Marianists have operated in Buenos Aires, founding a school in Caballito in 1935, with additional presence in Jun\u00edn, Nueve de Julio, and General Roca, R\u00edo Negro.\nChile.\nActive since 1948, the Marianists established the Province of Chile in 1982. They operate institutions like \"Colegio Santa Mar\u00eda de la Cordillera\", \"Colegio Parroquial San Miguel\", \"Instituto Miguel Le\u00f3n Prado\", and \"Instituto Linares\".\nPeru.\nThe Marianists manage several schools, including \"Colegio Santa Maria Marianistas\", \"Colegio Maria Reina Marianistas\" (founded 1965), \"Colegio San Antonio Marianistas\", \"Colegio San Jos\u00e9 Obrero Marianistas\", and \"El Instituto Chaminade Marianistas\".\nPuerto Rico.\nSince 1938, the Marianists have operated Colegio San Jos\u00e9, a leading college preparatory school in Puerto Rico and the Caribbean.\nMarianists in Africa.\nSince 1946, Marianists have served as missionaries in Kenya, Malawi, Zambia, Republic of the Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Togo, and Tunisia.\nKenya.\nThe Marianists run Our Lady of Nazareth primary school, the IMANI counseling and job training programs, and a child care center in Nairobi, alongside the Marianist Development Project in Mombasa. They support the Sudanese Diocese of Rumbec and operate the St. Bakhita Formation Center for seminarians, nurses, teachers, and catechists. They founded Mang'u High School in 1925, a prestigious institution.\nMalawi.\nThe Marianists manage Chaminade Secondary School and MIRACLE, a rural job-training program for AIDS-orphaned youth.\nZambia.\nThey teach at Matero Boys Secondary School, engage with alumni, and support the local diocese through liturgical services.\nMarianists in Asia and Australasia.\nPhilippines.\nSince 2004, the Marianists have focused on Davao City, establishing a community on October 2, 2004. They adopted Balay Pasilungan, a program for street children, in 2005, accredited by the Department of Social Welfare and Development.\nJapan.\nSince 1887, the Marianists have operated schools like Gyosei Gakuen in Tokyo (1888), Kaisei Gakuen in Nagasaki (1891), Osaka Meisei Gakuen in Osaka (1898), and St. Joseph School in Yokohama (1901).\nAustralia.\nThe Marianists manage St Paul's College, Altona, established in 1969, and were involved in founding John Paul College, Frankston, a coeducational school formed in 1977 through a merger with Stella Maris College. The schools reflect Marianist heritage through named facilities like Chaminade Library and McCoy Hall.\nCauses of canonization.\nBlesseds\nVenerables\nServants of God\nNotable contributions.\nThe Marianists have made significant contributions to education, social justice, and evangelization. Their universities, such as the University of Dayton, are recognized for academic excellence and research. The Society's emphasis on holistic education integrates intellectual, spiritual, and social development, influencing thousands of students globally. Their work with marginalized communities, such as street children in the Philippines and AIDS orphans in Malawi, reflects their commitment to social justice. The Marianist Family's collaborative model, involving laypeople and religious, has become a blueprint for modern Catholic apostolates."}
{"id": "732637", "revid": "527149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732637", "title": "Marianists", "text": ""}
{"id": "732638", "revid": "527149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732638", "title": "Marianist", "text": ""}
{"id": "732643", "revid": "45620479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732643", "title": "Lemon (disambiguation)", "text": "Lemon is both a tree and the fruit borne by that tree.\nLemon or Lemons may also refer to:"}
{"id": "732644", "revid": "51134249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732644", "title": "Marelli Europe", "text": "Marelli Europe S.p.A. (formerly Magneti Marelli S.p.A.) is a European subsidiary of Marelli Holdings which develops and manufactures components for the automotive industry. The firm is headquartered in Corbetta, Italy, and includes 86 manufacturing plants, 12 R&amp;D centres, and 26 application centers in 19 countries, with 43,000 employees and a turnover of 7.9 billion euros in 2016.\nSubsidiaries and brands of the company include AL-Automotive Lighting, Carello, Cromodora, Cofap, Ergom Automotive, Jaeger, Mako Elektrik, Paraflu, Securvia, Seima, Siem SpA, Solex, Veglia Borletti, Vitaloni, and Weber.\nHistory.\nFounded in 1919 as \"Fabbrica Italiana Magneti Marelli\" (FIMM), a joint-venture between Fiat and Ercole Marelli (1891\u20131993), an Italian electrical manufacturing company, the firm initially made ignition magnetos for the automotive and aviation industries, with its first plant in Sesto San Giovanni near Milan.\nIt was a subsidiary of FIAT (now Stellantis) from 1967 onwards.\nOn 22 October 2018, FCA announced that Magneti Marelli was being bought by KKR, to be merged with the Japanese automotive company Calsonic Kansei for $7.2 billion, a deal that would create one of the world's largest auto parts suppliers.\nIn May 2019, Magneti Marelli and Calsonic Kansei merged to form Marelli.\nCurrent work.\n, Magneti Marelli deals with intelligent systems for active and passive vehicle safety, and with powertrain systems. Business lines include automotive lighting systems, body control systems, powertrain control systems, electronic instrument clusters, telematics systems, and computers, suspension systems and components, exhaust systems, and motorsport, wherein Magneti Marelli develops specific electronic systems for Formula One, Grand Prix motorcycle racing and the World Rally Championship.\nMagneti Marelli worked with Ford Motor Company and Microsoft (Windows Embedded Automotive, formerly Microsoft Auto), to develop an in-dash computer (carputer) for Ford's work truck division introduced in 2008, with a built-in 6.5-inch, high-resolution touch screen and Bluetooth, USB connectivity, GPS navigation, voice recognition, and general office applications, e.g., word processing, contact, and calendar.\nIn 2023, Magneti Marelli fired 140 workers at its Niehl plant near Cologne, Germany."}
{"id": "732645", "revid": "11394119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732645", "title": "Deutsches Zentrum f\u00fcr Luft- und Raumfahrt", "text": ""}
{"id": "732646", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732646", "title": "Camp Cropper", "text": "Camp Cropper was a holding facility for security detainees operated by the United States Army near Baghdad International Airport in Iraq. The facility was initially operated as a high-value detention site (HVD), but has since been expanded increasing its capacity from 163 to 2,000 detainees. Former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein was held there prior to his execution. Hussein was held at a nearby location outside the Camp Cropper complex. He was isolated from the former Ba'ath Party and subsequent HVT\u2019s held at the main Cropper facility.\nHistory.\nCamp Cropper was established by the Headquarters and Headquarters Company (HHC) of the 115th Military Police Battalion in April 2003. It is named for Staff Sgt. Kenneth Cropper, a member of the Maryland Army National Guard who died in March 2002 while supporting security operations at the Pentagon. The facility was originally established as a High Value Detainee (HVD) holding area. Shortly after being established, its mission was expanded to also be a Corps Holding Area (CHA). Initially, the facility was meant to serve as \"central booking\" for the U.S. forces operating in Baghdad and central Iraq, though detainees from northern Iraq were brought there as well. After being processed at Camp Cropper detainees were supposed to be shipped to other detention facilities in Baghdad and throughout Iraq. However, in practice, this proved unworkable since most other prisons in Baghdad were badly damaged by looting after the fall of the Baath regime.\nAdditional units to operate Camp Cropper include:\nU.S. Army Reserve from Orangeburg, New York to include backfill elements of 366th MP Company of Stillwater, Oklahoma.\nApril-June 2003\n[CSC 1-107th Cavalry] Ohio National Guard, 2005 \nIn August 2006, a combat support hospital was opened on Camp Cropper that would treat both coalition soldiers and detainees from Camp Cropper. The hospital was initially staffed by members of the 21st Combat Support Hospital from Fort Hood, Texas who transferred to the new facility after the closure of the Abu Ghraib detention facility. The 21st CSH was later replaced by the 31st Combat Support Hospital from Fort Bliss, Texas.\nOn March 15, 2007 military officials announced plans to once again expand Camp Bucca and Camp Cropper. Officials stated that this increase in capacity would be necessary to handle the detainees generated from the increased security operations in Baghdad.\nIn the summer of 2010 the Camp Cropper facility was turned over to the Iraqi government and renamed Karkh Prison.\nA portion of Camp Cropper was still in use by the U.S. Army until December 2011 through the 40th Military Police Battalion, 15th Military Police Brigade, the 105th Military Police Battalion, 3rd Brigade 4th Infantry Division, Military Police Platoon, and 108th Military Police Company, 16th Military Police Brigade.\nCriticism.\nOn 2004-06-16, The Pentagon confirmed a report in \"The New York Times\" that former CIA chief George Tenet had been allowed by former U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to have an Iraqi prisoner secretly detained at Camp Cropper since November, but denied they were trying to hide the prisoner from the International Committee of the Red Cross. Rumsfeld later told reporters that the prisoner was treated humanely. In 2003, the International Committee of the Red Cross was given regular and open access to the facility and the detainees, the Red Cross documented severe living conditions, harsh treatment by guards, and poor medical care.\nIn October 2006, the International Committee of the Red Cross reported the wounding of one American soldier to date by detainees. The attack was reported to have been under suspicious circumstances.\nSince the closure of Abu Ghraib and the subsequent relocation to Camp Cropper, the now-larger prison has seen criticism for abuses of detainees and a hotbed of insurgent recruitment. Between October and December 2006, the MNF-I reported the deaths of three detainees at Camp Cropper. One from injuries inflicted by other detainees on October 29, two on November 30 and December 2 from natural causes. Other detainees died on 2007-04-04, 2007-05-26 and 2007-07-07.\nIn late April 2007, the former commander of Camp Cropper, Lieutenant Colonel William H. Steele was reported to be held in a military prison in Kuwait to await an Article 32 hearing. He was charged with various breaches of military law, including supplying an unmonitored cellphone to a detainee and inappropriate relationship with a detainee's daughter. On October 19, 2007, a military judge found Steele not guilty on the charge of aiding the enemy, but guilty of \"unauthorized possession of classified documents, behavior unbecoming an officer for an inappropriate relationship with an interpreter and failing to obey a lawful order\". Steele faced a possible maximum 6-year sentence for the charges he previously pleaded guilty to, as well as an additional 10 years for the charges for which he was convicted. Instead, he was sentenced to 2 years confinement, minus time already served, loss of his military retirement, forfeiture of pay and allowances and a dismissal from the military."}
{"id": "732647", "revid": "2300502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732647", "title": "Marist Brothers", "text": "The Marist Brothers of the Schools, commonly known as simply the Marist Brothers, is an international community of Catholic religious institute of brothers. In 1817, Marcellin Champagnat, a Marist priest from France, founded the Marist Brothers with the goal of educating young people, especially those most neglected. While most of the brothers minister in school settings, others work with young people in parishes, religious retreats, spiritual accompaniment, at-risk youth settings, young adult ministry, and overseas missions. Since the 2010s, several instances of sexual abuse within Marist-run institutions have been reported in Chile, Australia, and New Zealand.\nHistory.\nSt. Marcellin Champagnat decided to start an institute of consecrated brothers in the Marist tradition, building schools for the underprivileged where they might learn to become \"Good Christians and Good people\". The decision was inspired by an event, when as a parish priest he was called to administer the last rites to a dying boy named Jean Baptiste Montagne. Trying to lead the boy through his last moments in prayer, Marcellin was struck by the fact that the young man had no gauge of Christianity or prayer. From that moment, Champagnat decided to start training brothers to meet the faith needs of the young people of France.\nOn January 2, 1817, the 23-year-old Jean Marie Granjon and Jean Baptist Audras, fourteen and a half years of age, moved into the small house that Fr. Champagnat had rented for them in La Valla and which became the first Marist Brothers community. Their day consisted of prayer, work and study; their manual work was to make nails, an activity that helped to pay expenses. Marcellin taught them reading and writing, and he looked after their formation as religious educators. Other young men joined the undertaking, among them Gabriel Rivat who, as Brother Fran\u00e7ois, would later become the Brothers' first Superior General.\nAs a Marist priest, Champagnat had a particular affinity for the Blessed Virgin Mary, so upon conception of the idea of Marist Brothers, Champagnat chose to call his brothers \"Petits Fr\u00e8res de Marie\" (Little Brothers of Mary), emphasising the meekness and humbleness he wished them to pursue, and seeking their consecration to her as an exemplar of fidelity to Christ. In 1863, 23\u00a0years after Champagnat's death, the Marist Brothers institute received the approbation of the Holy See, whereupon the order received the title of \"Fratres Maristae a Scholis\" (Marist Brothers of the Schools), hence the post-nominal letters of FMS. They received a particular mandate to follow the Marist Fathers to the Pacific and administer to the new colonies of the Pacific nations and Australia. This harkens back to a Marist legend about Champagnat.\nA favourite maxim of St. Marcellin was that he wanted \"to make Jesus known and loved\" throughout the world, and to demonstrate he would run a needle through an apple (representing the earth) as an example of how he wanted the message of \"Ad Jesum per Mariam\" or \"To Jesus through Mary\" to cross the globe. The end of the needle came out in what would be the equivalent of the Pacific in relation to France where he inserted the needle, and so thus the Marist Brothers have a presence throughout the Pacific, including in Australia and New Zealand.\nInternational provinces.\nThe Marist Brothers are involved in educational work throughout the world and now conduct primary, secondary and higher education schools, academies, industrial schools, orphanages and retreat houses in 79 countries on five continents: Europe, Africa, Americas, Asia, and Oceania.\nFrom their roots in Lyon, the Brothers today have spread across the globe. Over their 200-year history, Marist Brothers have had ministries in over 100 different nations. There are approximately 2,500 brothers in 79 countries on 5 continents, working directly and sharing their mission and spirituality with more than 72,000 lay Marists, and together educating close to 654,000 children and young people.\nBr. Ernesto S\u00e1nchez Barba, F.M.S., is the current Superior General of the Marist Brothers (Institute of the Marist Brothers of the Schools),he was elected during the XXII General Chapter in Rionegro, Colombia, on 3 October 2017 Together with the Vicar General and a General Council, it is his responsibility to guide the growth, mission, and administration of the Institute's ministries worldwide. This leadership team is based at the General House in Rome, which serves as the central administrative and spiritual hub for the Marist Brothers.\nThe institute is divided into two main types of administrative units: Provinces \u2013 Larger regions, each overseen by a Provincial, who governs in the name of the Superior General. Provincials are responsible for the pastoral care of the Brothers and the oversight of Marist ministries within their territory and the Districts \u2013 Smaller units, often geographically or numerically limited missions, that could be dependent on a bigger Province or semi-autonomous. These are typically led by a District Leader, with similar responsibilities, but in a smaller scale. The number of provinces is actually 23 and districts are 3.\nOceania.\nThe Marist Brothers' first international missionary mandate was to the Pacific, where they accompanied Marist Fathers in evangelizing and education ministries. Today, Marist brothers own and run many technical colleges in the Central and Western Pacific, educating young men in nations ravaged by war (such as the Solomon Islands and Papua New Guinea).\nMarist Brothers arrived in Australia in 1872, where they opened their first school at The Rocks, New South Wales. There are now over 300 Brothers working with young people in schools as teachers and administrators, in retreat houses and camps for young people and in other areas of ministry. Australian Marist Brothers also serve in welfare ministries working with young adults in outreach programs in indigenous Australian communities and also in missions in nearby Papua New Guinea, Bougainville, Solomon Islands, and East Timor. Marists from Australia also serve communities in Cambodia and India. The two provinces of Melbourne (States of Victoria, WA, South Australia and Northern Territory) and Sydney (Queensland, New South Wales, ACT and Cambodia) recombined in 2012. The number of Marist Brothers in Australian is diminishing and very few continue to teach in the Marist schools, which are now led and staffed predominantly by lay teachers; however, such schools are described as being in the \"Marist tradition\" as they continue to follow the educational principles of the Marist Brothers.\nSince 2022, Oceania is aggregated into one province:\nEurope and North Africa.\nThe Marist mission originated in Europe, particularly in France, which Marcellin Champagnat called home. A number of schools, universities, youth ministries and social works are done by the Marists in this area. The administration of European Marists is overseen by the provinces of:\nIn Scotland, Celtic Football Club was formed at a meeting in St. Mary's church hall in Glasgow, by Marist Brother Walfrid on November 6, 1887. The stated purpose, according to the official club records, was \"to alleviate poverty in Glasgow's East End parishes\". The charity established by Brother Walfrid was named 'The Poor Children's Dinner Table'.\nNorth America.\nThe North American provinces are particularly based around secondary and tertiary education. The North American provinces are:\nLatin America.\nIn Latin America, \"Maristas\" are also very active in the following countries: Chile, Puerto Rico, Guatemala, Peru, El Salvador, Mexico, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Uruguay, Paraguay, Venezuela and other countries as well. The largest number of brothers currently are natives from Spain and France.\nThe Marist presence in these countries is divided into the following provinces:\nAfrica.\nMarist brothers are active in a number of African countries, including Malawi, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Kenya. Marist brothers have been martyred in Africa on many occasions for educating and protecting refugee people. The administrative groupings of Marists in Africa are:\nCases of child abuse.\nMarist statement about abuse.\nIn 2017, the Marist Brothers released a statement to survivors and victims of abuse. It was issued by the 22nd General Chapter and stated that \"Abuse is the very antithesis of our Marist values, and undermines the very purpose of our Institute. Any abuse of children is a betrayal of the noble ideals of our founder, St Marcellin Champagnat\".\nThen the institution fought against adequate compensation measures for survivors of the abuse.\nThe Marist Brothers then offered less in compensation to Fijian survivors, than they had in New Zealand, leading to accusations of racism.\nAustralian royal commission.\nFrom June 2014, the Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse, initiated as a royal commission of inquiry by the Australian Government and supported by all of its state governments, began investigating the response of Marist Brothers to allegations of child sexual abuse in schools in the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales and Queensland. A number of expert witnesses, former students, former teachers, former principals, former and current Marist officials and clergy, and one of the clergy at the centre of the allegations gave evidence or made statements before the commission.\nIn 2017, the commission published a report which documents significant evidence of child abuse at the hand of members of the Marist order and evidence that the response of the order systematically exacerbated the problems relating to abuse. Included in the report was a finding that \"many alleged perpetrators remained in the same positions with access to children for years and sometimes decades after initial and successive allegations of child sexual abuse were raised\". In many cases the Commission heard of \"the minimisation of allegations of child sexual abuse\". One of the key systematic issues that came to light was that it was typical for Brothers to move through many communities and ministries in their lifetime. In the 1960s and 1970s there were typically up to 100 transfers each year. As of 2017, compensation payments made totaled approximately $AUD2.7 million.\nIn March 2015, a former Marist Brother was arrested over a number of sex offences allegedly committed at St Joseph's College in and St Gregory's College in Campbelltown in the 1980s.\nIn September 2016, during a royal commission hearing, the brother provincial of the Marist Brothers in Australia, Brother Peter Carroll, formally apologised to the family of Andrew Nash, whose suicide in 1974 at the age of 13 almost certainly resulted from sexual abuse by three of the order's predatory brothers \u2013 Dominic, Patrick and Romuald \u2013 and acknowledged that they had many more victims than the dozens who had come forward so far.\nOther cases, documented in the report, included those related to Brother Chute who, in 2008, was convicted of 19 child sex offences against six of his former students during the period 1985 to 1989. 48 claims had been made of abuse that occurred from 1959 to 1990 at 6 different schools, while 40 students at Marist College Canberra laid complaints during the period 1976 to 1990. The Marist Brothers did not report any allegations of child sexual abuse to the police in the period 1962 to 1993.\nSeparately, in August 1996, Brother Gregory Sutton pleaded guilty to a total of 67 child sex offences in relation to 15 students at schools in New South Wales. Sutton had taught at six Marist schools between 1970 and 1986 and there were complaints about the abuse of 27 children made against him during this period. Sutton faced the courts again in Canberra in 2017, when he was given a suspended sentence after sexually assaulting two boys in Canberra in the 1980s.\nIn March 2025, Sutton received a further 15 months suspended sentence for sexually abusing a boy at a school in Innisfail, Queensland, between 1973 and 1975.\nIn September 2018, Australian Marist Brother Gerard McNamara, 80, was sentenced to nine months in prison for molesting five boys at St Paul's Catholic College, where he served as principal between 1970 and 1975. He had molested one of these boy 30 times. In May 2020, McNamara began serving a second stint in prison after pleading guilty to indecent assault of more than 15 male students between 1970 and 1975. This time, he received a sentence of 35 months in prison, with 28 months suspended. Since his first sex abuse conviction in June 2006, which resulted in a suspended prison sentence, McNamara received three additional convictions and sentences on sex abuse charges, but was able to once again receive a suspended prison sentence following another conviction in December 2016.\nCases of abuse in New Zealand.\nMarist Brother Claudius Pettit, real name Malcolm Thomas Petit, was convicted of child-sex abuse of a boy at a Wellington school in the 1990s. In 2005, John Louis Stevenson (known as Brother Bernard) and Brother Andrew Cody of the Hato Paora M\u0101ori Boys school in Feilding were convicted of sexual offenses and jailed. A Br. Aiden Benefield (Napier) was convicted of possessing child pornography in 2007.\nSubsequently, in 2020, Kevin Healy (Brother Gordon) was convicted of four charges of indecency (from 1976 to 1977) between a man and boys aged 12 and 13, and one of indecency with a girl aged under 12.\nAnother was Ray Gannaway, known as Brother Ivan, who taught in Wellington and Auckland.\nCases of abuse in Europe.\nAs of March 2016, 29 complaints had been made against six former teachers from three Marist schools in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain, with three of these teachers confessing to sexual abuse. By February 2019, the number of complaints against Barcelona Marist school teachers had increased to 43, with 12 teachers named as suspected abusers. Two Barcelona Marist Brothers were criminally charged, with one being convicted. The trial for the second defendant commenced in March 2019, who declared in court that the institution knew about the abuses but took no action so he \"felt protected by the Marists\". He was sentenced to 21 years and 9 months in prison for sexually abusing four children, with the Marist Brothers paying 120,000 euros to each of his proven victims.\nSimilar cases were reported in Ireland, with a Marist Brother being the first member of a religious order convicted of child sexual abuse in Ireland. Several Marist Brothers were convicted of abuse at a number of schools and a judgement by the Supreme Court of Ireland found the order \"vicariously liable\" for abuses.\nIn Scotland, the Marist Brothers issued an apology in 2021 for the \"systemic abuse of children\" at several schools.\nCases of abuse in Chile.\nAbuse cases in Marist facilities in Chile included several involving diocesan priests Cristi\u00e1n Precht Ba\u00f1ados and Miguel Ortega of the Archdiocese of Santiago. Chilean police investigated the claims. Precht was suspended from ministry between 2012 and 2017 after being convicted by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. In 2012, Ortega was found guilty of sexually molesting boys and sentenced to 32 years in prison; he died in 2015. On 12 September 2018, Precht was charged and laicized. Precht had been incardinated in the Archdiocese of Santiago, and gained national recognition in the 1980s when he served as head of the Church's Vicariate of Solidarity human rights group that challenged ex-dictator Augusto Pinochet to end the practice of torture in Chile.\nIn 2017, the Chilean Marist Brothers revealed that at least 14 minors were abused by Marist Brother Abel Perez from the 1970s until 2000 at several schools in Chile. Perez confessed to his superiors in 2010, and was transferred to Peru.\nMarist saints and martyrs.\nOn October 31, 1996, four brothers were killed by refugees and martyred in a mission in Nyamirangwe (Bugobe), Zaire. These brothers were all Spanish: Br. Fernando de la Fuente de la Fuente, Br. Miguel \u00c1ngel Isla Lucio, Br. Servando Mayor Garc\u00eda, and Br. Julio Rodr\u00edguez Jorge.\nOn October 28, 2007, the Vatican beatified 498 saints who died as martyrs in the Spanish Civil War. Among the 498 were 47 Marist brothers from the dioceses of Burgos, Cartagena, Girona, Lleida, Palencia, Pamplona and Tudela, San Sebasti\u00e1n, Solsona, Terrassa, Teruel and Albarracin, Urgell and Vic. The Beatification Mass was presided over by Cardinal Jose Saraiva Martins.\nOn December 8, 2018, Br. Henri Verg\u00e8s (1930\u20131994), from France, was among the nineteen beatified in Oran, Algeria, who were martyred in Algeria.\nSaints, Blesseds, and other holy people.\nSaints\nBlesseds\nVenerables\nServants of God"}
{"id": "732652", "revid": "13904982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732652", "title": "John Saul", "text": "John Saul (born February 25, 1942) is an American author of suspense and horror novels. Most of his books have appeared on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list.\nBiography.\nBorn in Pasadena, Saul grew up in Whittier, California, and graduated from Whittier High School in 1959. He went on to several colleges, including Cerritos College, Antioch College, San Francisco State University and Montana State University, variously majoring in anthropology, liberal arts and theater, but remains degree-less. After leaving college, Saul decided to become a writer, and spent 15 years working in various jobs while learning his craft.\nPrior to the start of his career writing thrillers, Saul had around 10 books published under pen names, the first of which he wrote in one weekend after unexpectedly losing his job. His first book sale earned him $200. Today he has over 60 million books in print.\nIn 1976, Dell Publishing contacted him about his writing a psychological thriller. The resulting novel, \"Suffer the Children\", appeared on all the bestseller lists in the United States and reached the number one spot in Canada. His 1979 novel \"Cry for the Strangers\" was made into a 1982 TV movie starring Patrick Duffy and Cindy Pickett. In addition to his novels, Saul has had several one-act plays produced in Los Angeles and Seattle.\nSaul lives part-time in the Pacific Northwest, both in Seattle and in the San Juan Islands, and has a residence on the Big Island of Hawaii. Saul is openly gay. He lives with his partner of almost 50 years (since 1975) who has collaborated on several of his novels. He is a frequent speaker at the Maui Writers' Conference.\nIn 2023, Saul received the Bram Stoker Award for Lifetime Achievement."}
{"id": "732653", "revid": "11394119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732653", "title": "Deutsches zentrum f\u00fcr luft- und raumfahrt", "text": ""}
{"id": "732654", "revid": "3145267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732654", "title": "Taro Sakai", "text": ""}
{"id": "732655", "revid": "6525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732655", "title": "Bel and the Dragon", "text": "The narrative of Bel and the Dragon is incorporated as chapter 14 of the extended Book of Daniel. The original Septuagint text in Greek survives in a single manuscript, Codex Chisianus, while the standard text is due to Theodotion, the 2nd-century AD revisor.\nThis chapter, along with chapter 13, is considered deuterocanonical: it was unknown to early Rabbinic Judaism, and while it is considered non-canonical by most Protestants, it is canonical to Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Christians, and is found in the Apocrypha section of some Protestant Bibles.\n\"Perhaps composed as early as the Persian period (539\u2013333 BCE)\".\nSummaries.\nThe chapter contains a single story which may previously have represented three separate narratives, which place Daniel at the court of Cyrus, king of the Persians: \"When King Astyages was laid to rest with his ancestors, Cyrus the Persian succeeded to his kingdom.\" There Daniel \"was a companion of the king, and was the most honored of all his Friends\". However, while Theodotion's Greek apparently dates the story to the time of Astyages, the Old Greek versions of the story do not specify this. As such, the real identity of the king is up for debate. Some Bibles, such as the Douay-Rheims, use the more traditional identification of this king as being Evil-Merodach, or Amel-Marduk. This identification is supported by the Scriptural Research Institute in their book \"Septuagint: Daniel\", where they cited similarities between Amel-Marduk's reign and the account, namely that Amel-Marduk was the only king of Babylon to have seen religious riots during his reign.\nBel.\nThe narrative of Bel (Daniel 14:1\u201322) ridicules the worship of idols. The king asks Daniel, \"You do not think Bel is a living god? Do you not see how much he eats and drinks every day?\" to which Daniel answers that the idol is made of clay covered by bronze and thus cannot eat or drink. Enraged, the king then demands that the seventy priests of Bel show him who consumes the offerings made to the idol. The priests then challenge the king to set the offerings as usual (which were \"twelve great measures of fine flour, and forty sheep, and six vessels of wine\") and then seal the entrance to the temple with his ring: if Bel does not consume the offerings, the priests are to be sentenced to death; otherwise, Daniel is to be killed.\nDaniel then uncovers the ruse (by scattering ashes over the floor of the temple in the presence of the king after the priests have left) and shows that the \"sacred\" meal of Bel is actually consumed at night by the priests and their wives and children, who enter through a secret door when the temple's doors are sealed.\nThe next morning, the king comes to inspect the test by observing from above. He sees that the food has been consumed and points out that the wax seals he put on the temple doors are unbroken, and offers a hosanna to Bel. Daniel calls attention to the footprints on the temple floor; which the king then realizes by seeing footprints, along with more slender ones and smaller ones, shows that women and children also participated in the gluttony. The priests of Bel are then arrested and, confessing their deed, reveal the secret passage that they used to sneak inside the temple. They, their wives and children are put to death, and Daniel is permitted to destroy the idol of Bel and the temple. This version has been cited as an ancestor of the \"locked-room mystery\".\nThe dragon.\nAccording to the brief companion narrative of the dragon (Daniel 14:23\u201330), \"there was a great dragon which the Babylonians revered\". Some time after the temple's condemnation the Babylonians worship the dragon. The king says that, unlike Bel, the dragon is a clear example of a live animal. Daniel promises to slay the dragon without the aid of a sword, and does so by baking pitch, fat, and hair (\"trichas\") to make cakes (\"mazas\", barley-cakes) that cause the dragon to burst open upon consumption. In other variants, other ingredients serve the purpose: in a form known to the Midrash, straw was fed in which nails were hidden, or skins of camels were filled with hot coals. A similar story occurs in the Persian poet Ferdowsi's Shahnameh, where Alexander the Great, or \"Iskandar\", kills a dragon by feeding it cow hides stuffed with poison and tar.\nEarlier scholarship has suggested a parallel between this text and the contest between Marduk and Tiamat in Mesopotamian mythology, where the winds controlled by Marduk burst Tiamat open and barley-cake plays the same role as the wind. However, David DeSilva (2018) casts doubt on this reading."}
{"id": "732656", "revid": "21678789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732656", "title": "Spironolactone", "text": "Spironolactone, sold under the brand name Aldactone among others, is classed as a diuretic medication. It can be used to treat fluid build-up due to liver disease or kidney disease. It is also used to reduce risk of disease progression, hospitalization, and death due to some types of heart failure. Other uses include acne and excessive hair growth in women, low blood potassium that does not improve with supplementation, high blood pressure that is difficult to treat, and early puberty in boys. It can also be used to block the effects of testosterone as a part of feminizing hormone therapy. Spironolactone is usually available in tablets, taken by mouth, though topical forms are also available.\nCommon side effects include electrolyte abnormalities, particularly high blood potassium, nausea, vomiting, headache, rashes, and a decreased desire for sex. In those with liver or kidney problems, extra care should be taken.\nIf taken during pregnancy, some animal studies suggest that spironolactone may affect the development of sex organs in babies. While this has not occurred in the few human studies available, women who are pregnant or considering pregnancy should discuss spironolactone use with their doctor due to the theoretical risk.\nSpironolactone is a steroid that blocks the effects of the hormones aldosterone, and to a lesser degree, testosterone, causing some estrogen-like effects. Spironolactone belongs to a class of medications known as potassium-sparing diuretics.\nSpironolactone was discovered in 1957, and was introduced in 1959. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication. In 2023, it was the 52nd most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 12million prescriptions. Spironolactone has a history of use in the trans community. Its use continues despite the rise of various accessible alternatives such as bicalutamide and cyproterone acetate with more precise action and fewer side effects.\nMedical uses.\nSpironolactone is primarily used in the treatment of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), where it has demonstrated significant benefits in reducing mortality and hospitalizations when added to standard therapy.\nMultiple studies show that spironolactone improves left ventricular diastolic function and reduces heart failure hospitalisations in patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), though without benefits in all-cause death or overall hospitalisation rates. Also, some evidence suggests spironolactone may be effective in HFpEF with resistant hypertension (defined as blood pressure &gt;130/80 mmHg) refractory to an ACE inhibitor/ARB, calcium channel blocker, and diuretic.\nIt is also used to treat edematous conditions such as nephrotic syndrome or ascites in people with liver disease, essential hypertension, low blood levels of potassium, secondary hyperaldosteronism (such as occurs with liver cirrhosis), and Conn's syndrome (primary hyperaldosteronism). The most common use of spironolactone is in the treatment of heart failure. On its own, spironolactone is only a weak diuretic because it primarily targets the distal nephron (collecting tubule), where only small amounts of sodium are reabsorbed, but it can be combined with other diuretics to increase efficacy. The classification of spironolactone as a \"potassium-sparing diuretic\" has been described as obsolete. Spironolactone is also used to treat Bartter's syndrome due to its ability to raise potassium levels.\nSpironolactone, which has antiandrogenic effects, may help improve acne in adult women, with modest benefits demonstrated in recent clinical trials. Its use is limited by short-term outcome data and minimal reporting of side effects. It is considered a possible alternative to antibiotics for hormonal acne. It is also used to manage other androgen-related conditions such as hirsutism, seborrhoea, and female pattern hair loss Spironolactone is used for the treatment of hirsutism in the United States. High doses of spironolactone, which are needed for considerable antiandrogenic effects, are not recommended for men due to the high risk of feminization and other side effects. Spironolactone can be used to treat symptoms of hyperandrogenism, such as due to polycystic ovary syndrome.\nHeart failure.\nAlthough loop diuretics help to treat acute symptoms of heart failure, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist diuretics (such as spironolactone) can be used long-term to reduce mortality and morbidity associated with certain types of chronic heart failure. One randomized control trial in 1999 found that the addition of spironolactone to standard therapy reduced all-cause mortality in patients with HF by 30%. Current recommendations from the American Heart Association are to use spironolactone in patients with NYHA Class II-IV heart failure who have a left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 35%.\nSpironolactone improves left ventricular diastolic function in patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, but it has no effect on mortality and hospitalization.\nDue to its antiandrogenic properties, spironolactone can cause effects associated with low androgen levels and hypogonadism in males. For this reason, men are typically not prescribed spironolactone for any longer than a short period of time, e.g., for an acute exacerbation of heart failure. A newer medication, eplerenone, has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of heart failure, and lacks the antiandrogenic effects of spironolactone. As such, it is far more suitable for men for whom long-term medication is being chosen. While mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) as a class (including spironolactone, eplerenone, and canrenone) is likely to be beneficial in heart-failure patients, the precise comparative magnitude of effect on mortality between spironolactone and eplerenone remains subject to some clinical uncertainty, with limited comparative data available for canrenone.\nHigh blood pressure.\nAbout one in 100 people with hypertension have elevated levels of aldosterone; in these people, the antihypertensive effect of spironolactone may exceed that of complex combined regimens of other antihypertensives since it targets the primary cause of the elevated blood pressure. However, a Cochrane review found adverse effects at high doses and little effect on blood pressure at low doses in the majority of people with high blood pressure. There is no evidence of person-oriented outcome at any dose in this group.\nHigh aldosterone levels.\nSpironolactone is used in the treatment of hyperaldosteronism (high aldosterone levels or mineralocorticoid excess), for instance primary aldosteronism (Conn's syndrome). Antimineralocorticoids including spironolactone and eplerenone are first-line treatments for hyperaldosteronism. They improve blood pressure and potassium levels, as well as left ventricular hypertrophy, albuminuria, and carotid intima-media thickness, in people with primary aldosteronism. In people with hyperaldosteronism due to unilateral aldosterone-producing adrenocortical adenoma, adrenalectomy should be preferred instead of antimineralocorticoids. Spironolactone should not be used to treat primary aldosteronism in pregnancy due to its antiandrogen-related risk of teratogenicity in male fetuses.\nSkin and hair conditions.\nAndrogens such as testosterone and DHT play a critical role in the pathogenesis of a number of dermatological conditions including oily skin, acne, seborrhea, hirsutism (excessive facial/body hair growth in women), and male pattern hair loss (androgenic alopecia). In demonstration of this, women with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome do not produce sebum or develop acne and have little to no body, pubic, or axillary hair. Moreover, men with congenital 5\u03b1-reductase type II deficiency, 5\u03b1-reductase being an enzyme that greatly potentiates the androgenic effects of testosterone in the skin, have little to no acne, scanty facial hair, reduced body hair, and reportedly no incidence of male-pattern hair loss. Conversely, hyperandrogenism in women, for instance due to polycystic ovary syndrome or congenital adrenal hyperplasia, is commonly associated with acne and hirsutism, as well as virilization (masculinization) in general. In accordance with the preceding, antiandrogens are highly effective in the treatment of the aforementioned androgen-dependent skin and hair conditions.\nBecause of the antiandrogenic activity of spironolactone, it can be quite effective in treating acne in women. In addition, spironolactone reduces oil that is naturally produced in the skin, so can be used to treat oily skin. Though not the primary intended purpose of the medication, the ability of spironolactone to be helpful with problematic skin and acne conditions was discovered to be one of the beneficial side effects and has been quite successful. Oftentimes, for women treating acne, spironolactone is prescribed and paired with a birth control pill. Positive results in the pairing of these two medications have been observed, although these results may not be seen for up to three months. Spironolactone has been reported to produce a 50 to 100% improvement in acne at sufficiently high doses. Response to treatment generally requires 1 to 3\u00a0months in the case of acne and up to 6\u00a0months in the case of hirsutism. Ongoing therapy is generally required to avoid relapse of symptoms. Spironolactone is commonly used in the treatment of hirsutism in women, and is considered to be a first-line antiandrogen for this indication. Spironolactone can be used in the treatment of female-pattern hair loss (pattern scalp hair loss in women). There is tentative low quality evidence supporting its use for this indication.\nAntiandrogens such as spironolactone are male-specific teratogens, which can feminize male fetuses due to their antiandrogenic effects. For this reason, antiandrogens are recommended only to be used to treat women who are of reproductive age in conjunction with adequate contraception. Oral contraceptives, which contain an estrogen and a progestin, are typically used for this purpose. Moreover, oral contraceptives themselves are functional antiandrogens and are independently effective in the treatment of androgen-dependent skin and hair conditions, hence can significantly augment the effectiveness of antiandrogens in the treatment of such conditions.\nSpironolactone is not generally used in men for the treatment of androgen-dependent dermatological conditions because of its feminizing side effects, but it is effective for such indications in men similarly. As an example, spironolactone has been reported to reduce symptoms of acne in males. An additional example is the usefulness of spironolactone as an antiandrogen in transgender women and nonbinary individuals.\nTopical spironolactone is effective in the treatment of acne, as well. As a result, topical pharmaceutical formulations containing 2 or 5% spironolactone cream became available in Italy for the treatment of acne and hirsutism in the early 1990s. The products were discontinued in 2006 when the creams were added to the list of doping substances with a decree of the Ministry of Health that year.\nComparison.\nSpironolactone, the 5\u03b1-reductase inhibitor finasteride, and the nonsteroidal antiandrogen flutamide all appear to have similar effectiveness in the treatment of hirsutism. Some clinical research, though, has found that the effectiveness of spironolactone for hirsutism is greater than that of finasteride, but is less than that of flutamide. The combination of spironolactone with finasteride is more effective than either alone for hirsutism and the combination of spironolactone with a birth-control pill is more effective than a birth-control pill alone. One study showed that spironolactone or the steroidal antiandrogen cyproterone acetate both in combination with a birth-control pill had equivalent effectiveness for hirsutism. Spironolactone is considered to be a first-line treatment for hirsutism, finasteride and the steroidal antiandrogen cyproterone acetate are considered to be second-line treatments, and flutamide is no longer recommended for hirsutism due to liver toxicity concerns. The nonsteroidal antiandrogen bicalutamide is an alternative option to flutamide with improved safety.\nThe combination of spironolactone with a birth-control pill in the treatment of acne appears to have similar effectiveness to a birth-control pill alone and the combination of a birth-control pill with cyproterone acetate, flutamide, or finasteride. However, this was based on low- to very low-quality evidence. Spironolactone may be more effective than birth-control pills in the treatment of acne, and the combination of spironolactone with a birth-control pill may have greater effectiveness for acne than either alone. In addition, some clinical research has found that flutamide is more effective than spironolactone in the treatment of acne. In one study, flutamide decreased acne scores by 80% within 3\u00a0months, whereas spironolactone decreased symptoms by only 40% in the same period. However, the use of flutamide for acne is limited by its liver toxicity. Bicalutamide is a potential alternative to flutamide for acne as well. Spironolactone can be considered as a first-line treatment for acne in those who have failed other standard treatments such as topical therapies and under certain other circumstances, although this is controversial due to the side effects of spironolactone and its teratogenicity.\nInsufficient clinical evidence exists to compare the effectiveness of spironolactone with other antiandrogens for female-pattern hair loss. The effectiveness of spironolactone in the treatment of both acne and hirsutism appears to be dose-dependent, with higher doses being more effective than lower doses. Higher doses also have greater side effects, such as menstrual irregularities.\nTransgender hormone therapy.\nDespite paradoxical reactions, spironolactone is used off-label as a component of feminizing hormone therapy in transgender women, especially in the United States (where cyproterone acetate is not available), usually in addition to an estrogen. Alternatives like bicalutamide do not have a similar level of popularity. As spironolactone's antiandrogenic effect appears only in high doses, it can have a wide array of side effects not found in antiandrogens working more exclusively on the androgen receptor. When coupled with estradiol, effects in transgender women include decreased male pattern body hair, induction of breast development and of feminization in general, and reduced spontaneous erections.\nForms.\nSpironolactone is available in the form of tablets (25, 50, and 100\u00a0mg; brand name Aldactone, others) and suspensions (25\u00a0mg/5\u00a0mL; brand name Carospir) for oral administration. It had also been marketed in the form of 2 or 5% topical cream in Italy for the treatment of acne and hirsutism under the brand name Spiroderm, but this product is no longer available. The medication is also available in combination with other medications, such as hydrochlorothiazide (brand name Aldactazide, others). Spironolactone has poor water solubility, so only oral and topical formulations have been developed; other routes of administration such as intravenous injection are not used. The only antimineralocorticoid that is available as a solution for parenteral use is the related medication potassium canrenoate.\nContraindications.\nContraindications of spironolactone include hyperkalemia (high potassium levels), severe and end-stage kidney disease (due to high hyperkalemia risk, except possibly in those on dialysis), Addison's disease (adrenal insufficiency and low aldosterone levels), and concomitant use of eplerenone. It should also be used with caution in people with certain neurological disorders, as well as those who experience or have experienced anuria (lack of urine production), acute kidney injury, or significant impairment of kidney excretory function with risk of hyperkalemia.\nSide effects.\nOne of the most common side effects of spironolactone is frequent urination. Other general side effects include dehydration, hyponatremia (low sodium levels), mild hypotension, ataxia (muscle incoordination), drowsiness, dizziness, dry skin, and rashes. Because of its antiandrogenic activity, spironolactone can cause breast tenderness, gynecomastia (breast development), feminization in general, and demasculinization, as well as sexual dysfunction including loss of libido and erectile dysfunction, although these side effects are usually confined to high doses. At very high doses (400\u00a0mg/day), spironolactone has also been associated with testicular atrophy and reversibly reduced fertility, including semen abnormalities, such as decreased sperm count and motility in men, but such doses of spironolactone are rarely used clinically. In women, spironolactone can cause menstrual irregularities, breast tenderness, and breast enlargement. Aside from these adverse effects, the side effects of spironolactone in women taking high doses are minimal, and it is well tolerated.\nA potential side effect of spironolactone is hyperkalemia (high potassium levels), which in severe cases, can be life-threatening. Hyperkalemia can present as a normal anion-gap metabolic acidosis. The addition of spironolactone to loop diuretics in people with heart failure reportedly was associated with a higher risk of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury. Spironolactone may put people at a heightened risk for gastrointestinal issues such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, cramping, and gastritis. In addition, some evidence suggests an association between use of the medication and bleeding from the stomach and duodenum, though a causal relationship between the two has not been established. Also, spironolactone is immunosuppressive in the treatment of sarcoidosis.\nMost of the side effects of spironolactone are dose-dependent. Low-dose spironolactone is generally very well tolerated. Even higher doses of spironolactone, such as 100\u00a0mg/day, are well tolerated in most individuals. Dose-dependent side effects of spironolactone include menstrual irregularities, breast tenderness, and enlargement, orthostatic hypotension, and hyperkalemia. Its side effects are usually mild and rarely result in discontinuation.\nHigh potassium levels.\nSpironolactone can cause high blood potassium levels. Rarely, this can be fatal. Of people with heart disease prescribed typical dosages of spironolactone, 10 to 15% develop some degree of hyperkalemia, and 6% develop severe hyperkalemia. At a higher dosage, a rate of hyperkalemia of 24% has been observed. An abrupt and major increase in the rate of hospitalization due to hyperkalemia from 0.2 to 11% and in the rate of death due to hyperkalemia from 0.3 to 2.0 per 1,000 between early 1994 and late 2001 has been attributed to a parallel rise in the number of prescriptions written for spironolactone upon the publication of the Randomized Aldactone Evaluation Study (RALES) in July 1999. However, another population-based study in Scotland failed to replicate these findings. The risk of hyperkalemia with spironolactone is greatest in the elderly, in people with renal impairment (e.g., due to chronic kidney disease or diabetic nephropathy), in people taking certain other medications (including inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the antibiotic trimethoprim, and potassium supplements), and at higher dosages of spironolactone.\nAlthough spironolactone poses an important risk of hyperkalemia in the elderly, in those with kidney or cardiovascular disease, and/or in those taking medications or supplements, which increase circulating potassium levels, a large retrospective study found that the rate of hyperkalemia in young women without such characteristics who had been treated with high doses of spironolactone for dermatological conditions did not differ from those of controls. This was the conclusion of a 2017 hybrid systematic review of studies of spironolactone for acne in women, as well, which found that hyperkalemia was rare and was invariably mild and clinically insignificant. These findings suggest that hyperkalemia may not be a significant risk in such individuals, and that routine monitoring of circulating potassium levels may be unnecessary in this population. Other sources have claimed that hyperkalemia can nonetheless also occur in people with more normal renal function and presumably without such risk factors. Occasional testing on a case-by-case basis in those with known risk factors may be justified. Side effects of spironolactone that may be indicative of hyperkalemia and if persistent could justify serum potassium testing include nausea, fatigue, and particularly muscle weakness. Notably, reduced or no routine potassium monitoring with spironolactone in young women would reduce costs associated with its use.\nAmong young, gender-diverse individuals taking spironolactone, hyperkalemia is rare and (if present) transient and asymptomatic. Larger doses do not appear to increase risks in this population. A broader retrospective study found that the rate of hyperkalemia in gender-diverse individuals is correlated with age, with those above 45 years old being more at risk. The finding suggests that patients below or at 45 years old without other conditions that affect potassium handling can be spared from routine monitoring.\nBreast changes.\nSpironolactone can cause breast pain and enlargement in women. This is \"probably because of estrogenic effects on target tissue.\" At low doses, breast tenderness has been reported in only 5% of women, but at high doses, it has been reported in up to 40% of women. Breast enlargement and tenderness may occur in 26% of women at high doses. Some women regard spironolactone-induced breast enlargement as a positive effect.\nSpironolactone also commonly and dose-dependently produces gynecomastia (breast development) as a side effect in men. At low doses, the rate is only 5 to 10%, but at high doses, up to or exceeding 50% of men may develop gynecomastia. In the RALES, 9.1% of men taking 25\u00a0mg/day spironolactone developed gynecomastia, compared to 1.3% of controls. Conversely, in studies of healthy men given high-dose spironolactone, gynecomastia occurred in 3 of 10 (30%) at 100\u00a0mg/day, in 5 of 8 (62.5%) at 200\u00a0mg/day, and in 6 of 9 (66.7%) at 400\u00a0mg/day, relative to none of 12 controls. The severity of gynecomastia with spironolactone varies considerably, but is usually mild. As with breast enlargement caused by spironolactone in women, gynecomastia due to spironolactone in men is often, although inconsistently, accompanied by breast tenderness. In the RALES, only 1.7% of men developed breast pain, relative to 0.1% of controls.\nThe time to onset of spironolactone-induced gynecomastia has been found to be 27 \u00b1 20 months at low doses and 9 \u00b1 12 months at high doses. Gynecomastia induced by spironolactone usually regresses after a few weeks following discontinuation of the medication. However, after a sufficient duration of gynecomastia being present (e.g., one year), hyalinization and fibrosis of the tissue occurs and drug-induced gynecomastia may become irreversible.\nMenstrual disturbances.\nSpironolactone at higher doses can cause menstrual irregularities as a side effect in women, including metrorrhagia (intermenstrual bleeding), amenorrhea (absence of menstruation), and breakthrough bleeding. They are common during spironolactone therapy, with 10 to 50% of women experiencing them at moderate doses and almost all experiencing them at a high doses. For example, about 20% of women experienced menstrual irregularities with 50 to 100\u00a0mg/day spironolactone, whereas about 70% experienced menstrual irregularities at 200\u00a0mg/day. Most women taking moderate doses of spironolactone develop amenorrhea, and normal menstruation usually returns within two months of discontinuation. Spironolactone produces an irregular and anovulatory pattern of menstrual cycles. It is also associated with metrorrhagia and menorrhagia (heavy menstrual bleeding) in large percentages of women, as well as with polymenorrhea (short menstrual cycles). The medication reportedly has no birth control effect.\nThe weak progestogenic activity of spironolactone has been suggested to be responsible for these effects, although not established, and spironolactone has been shown to possess insignificant progestogenic and antiprogestogenic activity even at high dosages in women. An alternative proposed cause is inhibition of 17\u03b1-hydroxylase and hence sex steroid metabolism by spironolactone and consequent changes in sex hormone levels. Indeed, \"CYP17A1\" genotype is associated with polymenorrhea. Regardless of their mechanism, the menstrual disturbances associated with spironolactone can usually be controlled well by concomitant treatment with a birth-control pill, due to the progestin component.\nMood changes.\nResearch is mixed on whether antimineralocorticoids such as spironolactone have positive or negative effects on mood. In any case, spironolactone might have the capacity to increase the risk of depressive symptoms. However, a 2017 hybrid systematic review found that the incidence of depression in women treated with spironolactone for acne was less than 1%. Likewise, a 10-year observational study found that the incidence of depression in 196\u00a0transgender women taking high-dose spironolactone in combination with an estrogen was less than 1%.\nLipid changes.\nSpironolactone has been found to increase LDL (\"bad\") cholesterol and decrease HDL (\"good\") cholesterol levels at the relatively high doses used in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. As such, it may have unfavorable effects on the blood lipid profile in this context. Heightened LDL cholesterol levels are a potential risk factor for cardiovascular disease, such as atherosclerosis or coronary heart disease. Consequently, spironolactone probably should not be given to women with dyslipidemia (e.g., high cholesterol). Unfavorable lipid changes have also been seen with other antiandrogens, such as cyproterone acetate and bicalutamide.\nRare reactions.\nAside from hyperkalemia, spironolactone may rarely cause adverse reactions such as anaphylaxis, kidney failure, hepatitis (two reported cases, neither serious), agranulocytosis, DRESS syndrome, Stevens\u2013Johnson syndrome, or toxic epidermal necrolysis. Five cases of breast cancer in patients who took spironolactone for prolonged periods of time have been reported.\nSpironolactone bodies.\nLong-term administration of spironolactone gives the histologic characteristic of \"spironolactone bodies\" in the adrenal cortex, which are eosinophilic, round, concentrically laminated cytoplasmic inclusions surrounded by clear halos in preparations stained with hematoxylin and eosin.\nPregnancy and breastfeeding.\nSpironolactone can cross the placenta. It has been found in the breast milk of lactating mothers, but only very small amounts of spironolactone and its metabolite canrenone enter breast milk, and the amount received by an infant during breastfeeding (&lt;0.5% of the mother's dose) is considered to be insignificant.\nA study found that spironolactone was not associated with teratogenicity in the offspring of rats. Because it is an antiandrogen, however, spironolactone could theoretically have the potential to cause feminization of male fetuses at sufficient doses. In accordance, a subsequent study found that partial feminization of the genitalia occurred in the male offspring of rats that received doses of spironolactone that were five times higher than those normally used in humans (200\u00a0mg/kg per day). Another study found permanent, dose-related reproductive tract abnormalities rat offspring of both sexes at lower doses (50 to 100\u00a0mg/kg per day).\nIn practice however, although experience is limited, spironolactone has never been reported to cause observable feminization or any other congenital defects in humans. Among 31 human newborns exposed to spironolactone in the first trimester, no signs of any specific birth defects were seen. A case report described a woman who was prescribed spironolactone during pregnancy with triplets and delivered all three (one boy and two girls) healthy; no observable feminization occurred in the boy. In addition, spironolactone has been used at high doses to treat pregnant women with Bartter's syndrome, and none of the infants (three boys, two girls) showed toxicity, including feminization in the male infants. Similar findings, albeit also limited, exist for another antiandrogen, cyproterone acetate (prominent genital defects in male rats, but no human abnormalities (including feminization of male fetuses) at both a low dose of 2\u00a0mg/day or high doses of 50 to 100\u00a0mg/day). In any case, spironolactone is nonetheless not recommended during pregnancy due to theoretical concerns relating to feminization of males and also to potential alteration of fetal potassium levels.\nA 2019 systematic review found insufficient evidence that spironolactone causes birth defects in humans. Evidence was insufficient to be certain that it does not.\nOverdose.\nSpironolactone is relatively safe in acute overdose. Symptoms following an acute overdose of spironolactone may include drowsiness, confusion, maculopapular or erythematous rash, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and diarrhea. In rare cases, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, or hepatic coma may occur in individuals with severe liver disease. These adverse reactions are unlikely, though, in the event of an acute overdose. Hyperkalemia can occur following an overdose of spironolactone, and this is especially so in people with decreased kidney function. Spironolactone has been studied at extremely high oral doses of up to 2,400\u00a0mg per day in clinical trials. Its oral median lethal dose (LD50) is more than 1,000\u00a0mg/kg in mice, rats, and rabbits.\nNo specific antidote for overdose of spironolactone is known. Treatment may consist of induction of vomiting or stomach evacuation by gastric lavage. The treatment of spironolactone overdose is supportive, with the purpose of maintaining hydration, electrolyte balance, and vital functions. Spironolactone should be discontinued in people with impaired kidney function or hyperkalemia.\nInteractions.\nSpironolactone often increases serum potassium levels and can cause hyperkalemia, a very serious condition. Therefore, people using this medication should avoid potassium supplements and salt substitutes containing potassium. Physicians must be careful to monitor potassium levels in both males and females who are taking spironolactone as a diuretic, especially during the first 12 months of use and whenever the dosage is increased. Doctors may also recommend that some patients may be advised to limit dietary consumption of potassium-rich foods. Recent data suggest that both potassium monitoring and dietary restriction of potassium intake are unnecessary in healthy young women taking spironolactone for acne and in healthy, young, gender-diverse individuals taking spironolactone for hormone therapy. Spironolactone together with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole increases the likelihood of hyperkalemia, especially in the elderly. The trimethoprim portion acts to prevent potassium excretion in the distal tubule of the nephron.\nSpironolactone has been reported to induce the enzymes CYP3A4 and certain UDP-glucuronosyltransferases , which can result in interactions with various medications. However, metabolites of spironolactone reortedly irreversibly inhibit CYP3A4. In any case, spironolactone has been found to reduce the bioavailability of oral estradiol, which could be due to induction of estradiol metabolism via CYP3A4. Spironolactone has also been found to inhibit UGT2B7. Spironolactone can also have numerous other interactions, most commonly with other cardiac and blood-pressure medications, for instance digoxin.\nLicorice, which has indirect mineralocorticoid activity by inhibiting mineralocorticoid metabolism, has been found to inhibit the antimineralocorticoid effects of spironolactone. Moreover, the addition of licorice to spironolactone has been found to reduce the antimineralocorticoid side effects of spironolactone in women treated with it for hyperandrogenism, and licorice hence may be used to reduce these side effects in women treated with spironolactone as an antiandrogen who are bothered by them. Conversely, spironolactone is useful in reversing licorice-induced hypokalemia. Aspirin and other NSAIDs have been found to attenuate the diuresis and natriuresis induced by spironolactone, but not to affect its antihypertensive effect.\nSome research has suggested that spironolactone might be able to interfere with the effectiveness of antidepressant treatment. As the medication acts as an antimineralocorticoid, it might be able to reduce the effectiveness of certain antidepressants by interfering with normalization of the hypothalamic\u2013pituitary\u2013adrenal axis and by increasing levels of glucocorticoids such as cortisol. Other research contradicts this hypothesis and has suggested that spironolactone might produce antidepressant effect, for instance, in studies showing antidepressant-like effects of spironolactone in animals.\nPharmacology.\nPharmacodynamics.\nThe pharmacodynamics of spironolactone are characterized by high antimineralocorticoid activity, moderate antiandrogenic activity, and weak steroidogenesis inhibition, among other more minor activities. Spironolactone is a prodrug, so most of its actions are actually mediated by its various active metabolites. The major active forms of spironolactone are 7\u03b1-thiomethylspironolactone (7\u03b1-TMS) and canrenone (7\u03b1-desthioacetyl-\u03b46-spironolactone).\nSpironolactone is a potent antimineralocorticoid. That is, it is an antagonist of the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), the biological target of mineralocorticoids like aldosterone and 11-deoxycorticosterone. By blocking the MR, spironolactone inhibits the effects of mineralocorticoids in the body. The antimineralocorticoid activity of spironolactone is responsible for its therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of edema, high blood pressure, heart failure, hyperaldosteronism, and ascites due to cirrhosis. It is also responsible for many of the side effects of spironolactone, such as urinary frequency, dehydration, hyponatremia, low blood pressure, fatigue, dizziness, metabolic acidosis, decreased kidney function, and its risk of hyperkalemia. Due to the antimineralocorticoid activity of spironolactone, levels of aldosterone are significantly increased by the medication, probably reflecting an attempt of the body to maintain homeostasis.\nSpironolactone is a moderate antiandrogen. That is, it is an antagonist of the androgen receptor (AR), the biological target of androgens like testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT). By blocking the AR, spironolactone inhibits the effects of androgens in the body. The antiandrogenic activity of spironolactone is mainly responsible for its therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of androgen-dependent skin and hair conditions like acne, seborrhea, hirsutism, and pattern hair loss and hyperandrogenism in women, precocious puberty in boys with testotoxicosis, and as a component of feminizing hormone therapy for transgender women. It is also primarily responsible for some of its side effects, like breast tenderness, gynecomastia, feminization, and demasculinization in men. Blockade of androgen signaling in the breast disinhibits the actions of estrogens in this tissue. Although useful as an antiandrogen in women, who have low testosterone levels compared to men, spironolactone is described as having relatively weak antiandrogenic activity.\nSpironolactone is a weak steroidogenesis inhibitor. That is, it inhibits steroidogenic enzymes, or enzymes involved in the production of steroid hormones. Spironolactone and/or its metabolites have been found \"in vitro\" to weakly inhibit a broad array of steroidogenic enzymes including cholesterol side-chain cleavage enzyme, 17\u03b1-hydroxylase, 17,20-lyase, 5\u03b1-reductase, 3\u03b2-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, 11\u03b2-hydroxylase, 21-hydroxylase, and aldosterone synthase (18-hydroxylase). However, although very high doses of spironolactone can considerably decrease steroid hormone levels in animals, spironolactone has shown mixed and inconsistent effects on steroid hormone levels in clinical studies, even at high clinical doses. In any case, the levels of most steroid hormones, including testosterone and cortisol, are usually unchanged by spironolactone in humans, which may in part be related to compensatory upregulation of their synthesis. The weak steroidogenesis inhibition of spironolactone might contribute to its antiandrogenic efficacy to some degree and may explain its side effect of menstrual irregularities in women. However, its androgen synthesis inhibition is probably clinically insignificant.\nSpironolactone has been found in some studies to increase levels of estradiol, an estrogen, although many other studies have found no changes in estradiol levels. The mechanism of how spironolactone increases estradiol levels is unclear, but it may involve inhibition of the inactivation of estradiol into estrone and enhancement of the peripheral conversion of testosterone into estradiol. It is notable that spironolactone has been found \"in vitro\" to act as a weak inhibitor of 17\u03b2-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 2, an enzyme that is involved in the conversion of estradiol into estrone. Increased levels of estradiol with spironolactone may be involved in its preservation of bone density and in its side effects such as breast tenderness, breast enlargement, and gynecomastia in women and men.\nIn response to the antimineralocorticoid activity spironolactone, and in an attempt to maintain homeostasis, the body increases aldosterone production in the adrenal cortex. Some studies have found that levels of cortisol, a glucocorticoid hormone that is also produced in the adrenal cortex, are increased as well. Spironolactone \"acts at the basolateral side of the upper-distal tubule as well as in the collecting tubule,\" and does not have glucocorticoid-like effects at these specific sites; it can sometimes be prescribed as an alternative to glucocorticoids for patients with Glucocorticoid-Remediable Aldosteronism characterized by aldosterone excess, In patients \"receiving spironolactone, there was a significant positive correlation between the change in cortisol and the change in HbA1c (r = 0.489, P = .003).\" Patients taking spironolactone must be monitored for side effects including dizziness, headache, fatigue, diarrhea, hypertriglyceridemia and elevated liver enzymes.\nOther activities of spironolactone may include very weak interactions with the estrogen and progesterone receptors and agonism of the pregnane X receptor. These activities could contribute to the menstrual irregularities and breast side effects of spironolactone and to its drug interactions, respectively.\nPharmacokinetics.\nThe pharmacokinetics of spironolactone have not been studied well, which is in part because it is an old medication that was developed in the 1950s. Nonetheless, much has been elucidated about the pharmacokinetics of spironolactone over the decades.\nAbsorption.\nThe bioavailability of spironolactone when taken by mouth is 60 to 90%. The bioavailability of spironolactone and its metabolites increases significantly (+22\u201395% increases in levels) when spironolactone is taken with food, although it is uncertain whether this further increases the therapeutic effects of the medication. The increase in bioavailability is thought to be due to promotion of the gastric dissolution and absorption of spironolactone, as well as due to a decrease of the first-pass metabolism. The relationship between a single dose of spironolactone and plasma levels of canrenone, a major active metabolite of spironolactone, has been found to be linear across a dose range of 25 to 200\u00a0mg spironolactone. Steady-state concentrations of spironolactone are achieved within 8 to 10\u00a0days of treatment initiation.\nLittle or no systemic absorption has been observed with topical spironolactone.\nDistribution.\nSpironolactone and its metabolite canrenone are highly plasma protein bound, with percentages of 88.0% and 99.2%, respectively. Spironolactone is bound equivalently to albumin and \u03b11-acid glycoprotein, while canrenone is bound only to albumin. Spironolactone and its metabolite 7\u03b1-thiospironolactone show very low or negligible affinity for sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG). In accordance, a study of high-dosage spironolactone treatment found no change in steroid binding capacity related to SHBG or to corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG), suggesting that spironolactone does not displace steroid hormones from their carrier proteins. This is in contradiction with widespread statements that spironolactone increases free estradiol levels by displacing estradiol from SHBG.\nSpironolactone appears to cross the blood\u2013brain barrier.\nMetabolism.\nSpironolactone is rapidly and extensively metabolized in the liver upon oral administration and has a very short terminal half-life of 1.4 hours. The major metabolites of spironolactone are 7\u03b1-thiomethylspironolactone (7\u03b1-TMS), 6\u03b2-hydroxy-7\u03b1-thiomethylspironolactone (6\u03b2-OH-7\u03b1-TMS), and canrenone (7\u03b1-desthioacetyl-\u03b46-spironolactone). These metabolites have much longer elimination half-lives than spironolactone of 13.8 hours, 15.0 hours, and 16.5 hours, respectively, and are responsible for the therapeutic effects of the medication. As such, spironolactone is a prodrug. The 7\u03b1-thiomethylated metabolites of spironolactone were not known for many years and it was originally thought that canrenone was the major active metabolite of the medication, but subsequent research identified 7\u03b1-TMS as the major metabolite. Other known but more minor metabolites of spironolactone include 7\u03b1-thiospironolactone (7\u03b1-TS), which is an important intermediate to the major metabolites of spironolactone, as well as the 7\u03b1-methyl ethyl ester of spironolactone and the 6\u03b2-hydroxy-7\u03b1-methyl ethyl ester of spironolactone.\nSpironolactone is hydrolyzed or deacetylated at the thioester of the C7\u03b1 position into 7\u03b1-TS by carboxylesterases. Following formation of 7\u03b1-TS, it is \"S\"-oxygenated by flavin-containing monooxygenases to form an electrophilic sulfenic acid metabolite. This metabolite is involved in the CYP450 inhibition of spironolactone, and also binds covalently to other proteins. 7\u03b1-TS is also \"S\"-methylated into 7\u03b1-TMS, a transformation catalyzed by thiol \"S\"-methyltransferase. Unlike the related medication eplerenone, spironolactone is said to not be metabolized by CYP3A4. However, hepatic CYP3A4 is likely responsible for the 6\u03b2-hydroxylation of 7\u03b1-TMS into 6\u03b2-OH-7\u03b1-TMS. 7\u03b1-TMS may also be hydroxylated at the C3\u03b1 and C3\u03b2 positions. Spironolactone is dethioacetylated into canrenone. Finally, the C17 \u03b3-lactone ring of spironolactone is hydrolyzed by the paraoxonase PON3. It was originally thought to be hydrolyzed by PON1, but this was due to contamination with PON3.\nElimination.\nThe majority of spironolactone is eliminated by the kidneys, while minimal amounts are handled by biliary excretion.\nChemistry.\nSpironolactone, also known as \"7\u03b1-acetylthiospirolactone\", is a steroidal 17\u03b1-spirolactone, or more simply a spirolactone. It can most appropriately be conceptualized as a derivative of progesterone, itself also a potent antimineralocorticoid, in which a hydroxyl group has been substituted at the C17\u03b1 position (as in 17\u03b1-hydroxyprogesterone), the acetyl group at the C17\u03b2 position has been cyclized with the C17\u03b1 hydroxyl group to form a spiro 21-carboxylic acid \u03b3-lactone ring, and an acetylthio group has been substituted in at the C7\u03b1 position. These structural modifications of progesterone confer increased oral bioavailability and potency, potent antiandrogenic activity, and strongly reduced progestogenic activity. The C7\u03b1 substitution is likely responsible for or involved in the antiandrogenic activity of spironolactone, as 7\u03b1-thioprogesterone (SC-8365), unlike progesterone, is an antiandrogen with similar affinity to the AR as that of spironolactone. In addition, the C7\u03b1 substitution appears to be responsible for the loss of progestogenic activity and good oral bioavailability of spironolactone, as SC-5233, the analogue of spironolactone without a C7\u03b1 substitution, has potent progestogenic activity but very poor oral bioavailability similarly to progesterone.\nNames.\nSpironolactone is also known by the following equivalent chemical names:\nAnalogues.\nSpironolactone is closely related structurally to other clinically used spirolactones such as canrenone, potassium canrenoate, drospirenone, and eplerenone, as well as to the never-marketed spirolactones SC-5233 (6,7-dihydrocanrenone; 7\u03b1-desthioacetylspironolactone), SC-8109 (19-nor-6,7-dihydrocanrenone), spiroxasone, prorenone (SC-23133), mexrenone (SC-25152, ZK-32055), dicirenone (SC-26304), spirorenone (ZK-35973), and mespirenone (ZK-94679).\nSynthesis.\nChemical syntheses of spironolactone and its analogues and derivatives have been described and reviewed.\nHistory.\nThe natriuretic effects of progesterone were demonstrated in 1955, and the development of spironolactone as a synthetic antimineralocorticoid analogue of progesterone shortly followed this. Spironolactone was first synthesized in 1957, was patented between 1958 and 1961, and was first marketed, as an antimineralocorticoid, in 1959. Gynecomastia was first reported with spironolactone in 1962, and the antiandrogenic activity of the medication was first described in 1969. This shortly followed the discovery in 1967 that gynecomastia is an important and major side effect of AR antagonists. Spironolactone was first studied in the treatment of hirsutism in women in 1978. It has since become the most widely used antiandrogen for dermatological indications in women in the United States. Spironolactone was first studied as an antiandrogen in transgender women in 1986, and has since become widely adopted for this purpose as well, particularly in the United States where cyproterone acetate is not available.\nEarly oral spironolactone tablets showed poor absorption. The formulation was eventually changed to a micronized formulation with particle sizes of less than 50\u00a0\u03bcg, which resulted in approximately 4-fold increased potency.\nSociety and culture.\nGeneric names.\nThe English, French, and generic name of the medication is spironolactone and this is its , , , , , and . Its name is in Latin, in German, in Spanish and Portuguese, and in Italian (which is also its ).\nSpironolactone is also known by its developmental code names SC-9420 and NSC-150339.\nBrand names.\nSpironolactone is marketed under various brand names throughout the world. The original brand name of spironolactone is Aldactone. Other brand names include Aldactone-A, Berlactone, CaroSpir, Espironolactona, Espironolactona Genfar, Novo-Spiroton, Prilactone (veterinary), Spiractin, Spiridon, Spirix, Spiroctan, Spiroderm (discontinued), Spirogamma, Spirohexal, Spirolon, Spirolone, Spiron, Spironolactone Actavis, Spironolactone Orion, Spironolactone Teva, Spirotone, Tempora (veterinary), Uractone, Uractonum, Verospiron, and Vivitar.\nSpironolactone is also formulated in combination with a variety of other medications, including with hydrochlorothiazide as Aldactazide, with hydroflumethiazide as Aldactide, Lasilacton, Lasilactone, and Spiromide, with altizide as Aldactacine and Aldactazine, with furosemide as Fruselac, with benazepril as Cardalis (veterinary), with metolazone as Metolactone, with bendroflumethiazide as Sali-Aldopur, and with torasemide as Dytor Plus, Torlactone, and Zator Plus.\nAvailability.\nSpironolactone is marketed throughout the world.\nResearch.\nProstate conditions.\nSpironolactone has been studied at a high dosage in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH; enlarged prostate). It was found to be better than placebo in terms of symptom relief following three months of treatment. However, this was not maintained after six months of treatment, by which point the improvements had largely disappeared. Moreover, no difference was observed between spironolactone and placebo with regard to volume of residual urine or prostate size. Gynecomastia was observed in about 5% of people. On the basis of these results, it has been said that spironolactone has no place in the treatment of BPH.\nSpironolactone has been studied and used limitedly in the treatment of prostate cancer.\nEpstein\u2013Barr virus.\nSpironolactone has been found to block Epstein\u2013Barr virus (EBV) production and that of other human herpesviruses by inhibiting the function of an EBV protein SM, which is essential for infectious virus production. This effect of spironolactone was determined to be independent of its antimineralocorticoid actions.\nOther conditions.\nSpironolactone has been studied in the treatment of rosacea in both males and females.\nSpironolactone has been studied in fibromyalgia in women. It has also been studied in bulimia nervosa in women, but was not found to be effective."}
{"id": "732657", "revid": "17060767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732657", "title": "Salaberry-de-Valleyfield", "text": "Salaberry-de-Valleyfield () is a city in southwestern Quebec, Canada, in the Regional County Municipality of Beauharnois-Salaberry. The population as of 2021 was 42,410.\nThe historic downtown is a major touristic centre for the area.\nDue to the presence of Lake St. Francis on the St. Lawrence River, St. Francis Bay in downtown, and of numerous rivers and canals all over the town, the city is nicknamed \"The Venice of Quebec\".\nHistory.\nThe actual city was founded in 1874, the first mayor was Moise Plante. The first settlers arrived in 1798. At that moment, the settlement was named Pointe-du-Lac (Lake Point). The colony was then renamed Saranac, then Sainte-C\u00e9cile. Salaberry-de-Valleyfield was officially named in 1874 after Colonel Charles de Salaberry who served with the British army during the War of 1812. \"Valleyfield\" came from the Valleyfield Mills, a paper mill south of Edinburgh in Scotland.\nThe city is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Valleyfield, founded in 1892.\nSalaberry-de-Valleyfield is also the seat of the judicial district of Beauharnois since 1901.\nMerger.\nIn 2002, the city of 26,170 amalgamated with the following communities (2001 Canada census figures):\nGeography.\nSituated on Grande-\u00cele, an island in the Saint Lawrence River, it is bordered at its western end by Lake Saint Francis, with the Saint Lawrence to the north and the Beauharnois Canal to its south. The Port of Valleyfield is on the canal.\nClimate.\nSalaberry-de-Valleyfield has a humid continental climate (Dfb) with warm summers and long, cold, and snowy winters.\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Salaberry-de-Valleyfield had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nAttractions.\nThe Mus\u00e9e de Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 des Deux-Rives (MUSO), which covers the economic and cultural history of the region, is located in the city.\nThe city houses one of the 10 minor basilicas in Quebec. Cathedral-Basilica of Saint Cecilia, built in 1934\u20131935, is one of the largest churches in the country.\nThe city has been the site of the Valleyfield Regattas since 1938. The event takes place every year at the beginning of July over a three-day period in the heart of the city on Bay Saint-Fran\u00e7ois. It is an international hydroplane competition, in which power boats achieve speeds of up to 225\u00a0km/h. Attracting over 130,000 visitors per year, it also includes other cultural activities.\nGovernment.\nThe city council is composed of the mayor and eight city councillors. The municipal elections are held every four years. Each councillor stands for his/her district.\nList of former mayors:\nEducation.\nGault Institute.\nThe Gault Institute was created by Andrew Frederick Gault. He created this school during the time that the Gault Cotton Mills were up and running. To heat the school at one time he used underground pipes connecting from the school to the Cotton Mills since at the time there was no electricity."}
{"id": "732658", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732658", "title": "Operation Bluestar", "text": ""}
{"id": "732663", "revid": "13286072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732663", "title": "Crime and punishment", "text": ""}
{"id": "732665", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732665", "title": "Pierre Rigaud de Vaudreuil", "text": ""}
{"id": "732666", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732666", "title": "Sacred Hearts Academy", "text": "Sacred Hearts Academy, also known as Sacred Hearts or SHA, is located on 3253 Waialae Avenue, in the town of Kaimuki in Honolulu, Hawaii, is a historic Roman Catholic college preparatory school for girls founded in 1909 to serve the needs of early Hawaii Catholics in the former Territory of Hawaii. The school maintains a special relationship with Chaminade University of Honolulu and the all-boys Saint Louis School, both administered by the Society of Mary.\nHistory.\nSacred Hearts was originally founded by nuns from the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, the religious order of Father Damien. The precursor of the institution was founded as a boarding and day school next to the Cathedral Basilica of Our Lady of Peace in Honolulu in 1859.\nThe current manifestation was founded in 1909 as a boarding school, it grew rapidly within the next decade and, by the 1920s, more buildings were added to accommodate the students. The sisters ran the school until 1990, when it passed into lay administration.\nFilming location.\nSacred Hearts has served as a filming location for several television shows set and shot on location in Hawaii. The season 6 finale of the ABC series \"Lost\" was filmed there. In \"Hawaii Five-0\", Sacred Hearts was used as Grace Williams' school."}
{"id": "732670", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732670", "title": "Krag-Jorgensen", "text": ""}
{"id": "732672", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732672", "title": "Munged password", "text": "A munged password (pronounced ) refers to the practice of creating a password with common replacement strategies such as replacing 'S' with '$' or '5'. This can be seen as an application of leet speak. \nThere is a perception that munged passwords are more secure, but modern password cracking tools include rules to account for character substitutions. Mungeing or leet speak has a minimal effect on password security when uncommon (\"low-frequency\") substitutions are used, but may decrease password security by providing a false sense of complexity. \n\"Munge\" is sometimes backronymmed as Modify Until Not Guessed Easily. The usage differs significantly from \"mung\" (Mash Until No Good), as \"munging\" implies destruction of data, whereas \"mungeing\" implies that the original data can be reconstructed.\nImplementation.\nAdding a number and/or special character to a password might thwart some simple dictionary attacks. For example, the password \"Butterfly\" could be munged in the following ways:\nThe substitutions can be anything the user finds easy to remember, such as:"}
{"id": "732673", "revid": "38001712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732673", "title": "Michigan Christian College", "text": ""}
{"id": "732678", "revid": "34084501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732678", "title": "Tracfort", "text": "Tracfort was a French automobile manufacturing venture that lasted from 1933 till late in 1934.\nOrigins.\nDuring the winter of 1933/34, Louis Carle founded \"Automobiles Tracfort\" at Courbevoie, by then a district in Paris. The car was developed by Andr\u00e9 Bournhonet who earlier had worked with a small Courbevoie based auto-maker called .\nAssembly took place at a manufacturing workshop, at Rue de Normandie 71 in Gennevilliers, ten minutes down the road from Courbevoie. The project involved producing front wheel drive cars under the Tracfort name, foreshadowing Citro\u00ebn's highly successful Traction avant model that appeared in 1934.\nThe cars.\nThe Tracfort used the side valve 933\u00a0cc, 8\u00a0hp engine from the Ford Model Y but in order to support the front-wheel drive lay-out the engine was turned through 180 degrees so that the gearbox was at the front.\nTwo bodies were listed, both with two doors. These were a four seater 2-door \"coach\" (\"Mouette\") bodied car with a fashionably fast-back tail and an open topped two seater \"roadster\" (\"Irlande\"). The inclusion of a Ford engine was reflected in the grill which also came from the Model Y.\nAlthough the Ford transverse leaf springs were retained, the front suspension was made independent.\nPresentation.\nThe manufacturer took a stand at the 27th Paris Motor Show in October 1933, but disappeared a few weeks later following the bankruptcy of a firm called \"SABAB\" (\"Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 anonyme des Brevets Andr\u00e9 Bournhonet\"), the patent holder whose support was necessary to ensure further production.\nTracfort or Tracford?\nBecause the car used a Ford engine and (without its badge) a Ford grill, contemporaries and others sometimes inferred and then assumed that the name of the car was \"Tracford\". The error gained a wider following among English speaking readers once it found its way into several successive editions of the excellent, comprehensive and widely respected \"Complete Encyclopaedia of Motorcars\" by Nick Georgano.\nNevertheless, publicity material of the time and other sources, including those originated by mother-tongue French speakers, and including even the most recent version of Georgano's own compilation, indicate that \"Tracfort\" is the correct spelling for this car's name."}
{"id": "732679", "revid": "13791031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732679", "title": "Voyage of the Dawn Treader", "text": ""}
{"id": "732682", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732682", "title": "Pierre de Rigaud, marquis de Vaudreuil-Cavagnial", "text": "Pierre de Rigaud de Vaudreuil de Cavagnial, marquis de Vaudreuil (; 22 November 1698 \u2013 4 August 1778) was a French military officer and colonial administrator. Born in Quebec, he was governor of French Louisiana (1743\u20131753) and in 1755 became the last Governor-General of New France. In 1759 and 1760 the British conquered the colony in the Seven Years' War (known in the United States as the French and Indian War).\nLife and work.\nHe was born to the Governor-General of New France, Philippe de Rigaud Vaudreuil and his wife, Louise-\u00c9lisabeth, the daughter of Pierre de Joybert de Soulanges et de Marson, in Quebec. He was the uncle of Louis-Philippe de Vaudreuil. Commissioned into the French Royal Army while still a youth, in 1733 he was appointed governor of Trois-Rivi\u00e8res, and in 1742 of French Louisiana, serving there from to May 10, 1743, to February 9, 1753, and proving himself a skilled officer and capable administrator. While governor of Louisiana, he married Jeanne-Charlotte de Fleury Deschambault, a widow about 15 years his elder.\nHe moved to France in 1753 before being appointed by King Louis XV as governor of New France in 1755. Although Vaudreuil held supreme civil authority in Canada and was technically commander-in-chief of all French forces there, he clashed often with Montcalm, the military commander in the field, who resented his oversight role. The two men grew to detest one another, much to the detriment of the French war effort. After Montcalm was defeated by British forces under Major-general James Wolfe at Quebec City in the Battle of the Plains of Abraham, Vaudreuil tried to rally resistance to the invaders but to no avail. He was forced to surrender Montreal on 8 September 1760 to Major-general Jeffrey Amherst.\nOne of several scapegoats for France's losses in the New World, Vaudreuil was imprisoned in the Bastille on March 30, 1762, but was released on May 18. He was joined by Bigot, Cadet, Pean, Breard, Varin, Le Mercier, Penisseault, Maurin, Copron, and others. Of the 21 men brought to trial, 10 were condemned, six were acquitted, three received an admonition and two were dismissed for want of evidence. Absent were 34, of whom seven were sentenced in default, and judgement was reserved in the case of the rest. Exonerated in a military tribunal held in December 1763, he was awarded a pension and military decoration. After selling his Canadian seigneuries at Vaudreuil and Rigaud to his cousin, Michel Chartier de Lotbini\u00e8re, Marquis de Lotbini\u00e8re, he retired to his ancestral estate near Rouen, although the episode ruined his fortunes. He died in Paris on 4 August 1778.\nHis nephew Louis-Philippe de Vaudreuil was the second in command of the French naval units supporting the Americans during the American Revolution. He was present at the crucial French victory over the Royal Navy at the Battle of the Chesapeake during the siege of Yorktown in 1781, although he was later defeated by the British navy at the Battle of the Saintes. Vaudreuil was one of three governors-general of Canada known to have owned enslaved people. During his tenure, he owned 16 people, 13 of whom were Africans.\nLegacy.\nIn Literature.\nVaudreuil is a menacing offstage presence in Kenneth Roberts' Arundel novels, \"Arundel\" and \"Rabble in Arms\"."}
{"id": "732683", "revid": "1301160944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732683", "title": "Browning Arms Company", "text": "Browning Arms Company (originally John Moses and Matthew Sandefur Browning Company) is an American marketer of firearms and fishing gear. The company was founded in Ogden, Utah, in 1878 by brothers John Moses Browning (1855\u20131926) and Matthew Sandefur Browning (1859\u20131923). The company offers a wide variety of firearms, including shotguns, rifles, and pistols. Other products include fishing rods and reels, gun safes, sport bows, knives and bicycles.\nInitially, the company marketed the sporting (non-military) designs of John Browning, one of the world's most influential and prolific firearms inventors. Nearly all of John Browning's innovative designs have been manufactured under license by other companies, including Winchester, Colt, Remington, FN Herstal, and Miroku. Browning is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of FN Herstal.\nBrowning Arms Company is best known for the A-Bolt and X-Bolt bolt-action rifles, the BAR semi-automatic rifle, the BPR pump-action rifle, the BPS pump-action shotgun, the Auto-5 semi-automatic shotgun, and the Hi-Power pistol. Browning also manufactures a set of trap shotguns such as the 725 Pro Trap, Citori CX series, and the Cynergy series.\nArchives.\nThe company's factory collection is owned by the Browning Firearms Museum at Union Station in Ogden, Utah.\nProducts.\nFootwear.\nBrowning introduced a line of hunting boots in 1968 and continued to design and manufacture footwear through outside vendors until 2001. In that year, Browning reached a license agreement with Connecticut-based H.H. Brown Shoe Company, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, to manufacture Browning Footwear.\nThe product line included the John M. Browning collection, Field and Game series, and sporting and waterfowl lines. The line has grown to include kangaroo leather boots, rubber boots and waders, and upland game boots.\nKnives.\nIn 1968, Browning introduced a line of cutlery in the form of three fixed-blade hunting knives and a folding knife designed by the custom knifemaker Gil Hibben. Over the years, the lineup has grown, and Browning has teamed up with other knifemakers such as Jerry Fisk, Bailey Bradshaw, John Fitch, Joseph Keeslar, and James Crowell of the American Bladesmith Society. In 2004 Browning partnered with several custom knifemakers to produce a series of \"Living History Knives\" honoring famous American generals and battles. The lineup included a Liberty Tree Knife made by Larry Harley; a Robert E. Lee Knife and an Alamo Knife honoring Jim Bowie designed by Jerry Fisk; an Ike Knife honoring Dwight David Eisenhower designed by Jim Crowell; and a Crazy Horse Knife by Brent Evans. Browning has recently partnered with big-game hunter, Russ Kommer as their knife designer.\nIn popular culture.\nBrowning was the make of pistol initially depicted in the Nazi propaganda play \"Schlageter\", from which the quote \"when I hear the word culture, I reach for my gun\", often associated with Nazi leaders, originates. The actual line from the play is slightly different: \"Wenn ich Kultur h\u00f6re ... entsichere ich meinen Browning!\" \"Whenever I hear of culture... I unlock my Browning!\" (Act 1, Scene 1).\nBrowning is the sponsor of the hunting show \"Goin' Country\" hosted by Kristy Lee Cook, which the Versus channel aired before it became the NBC Sports Network. The relationship between Cook and Browning started after she wore a Browning hat on \"American Idol\".\nA Browning shotgun appears in the Turnpike Troubadours song \"The Housefire\" and \"The Bird Hunters\". The latter specifies that the gun was manufactured in Belgium."}
{"id": "732684", "revid": "39991314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732684", "title": "Terem Palace", "text": "Terem Palace or Teremnoy Palace () is a historical building in the Moscow Kremlin, Russia, which used to be the main residence of the Russian czars in the 17th century. Its name is derived from the Greek word \"\u03c4\u03ad\u03c1\u03b5\u03bc\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\" (i.e., \"dwelling\"). Currently, the structure is not accessible to the public, as it belongs to the official residence of the President of Russia.\nIn the 16th century, Aloisio da Milano constructed the first royal palace on the spot. Only the ground floor from that structure survives, as the first Romanov tsar, Mikhail Feodorovich, had the palace completely rebuilt in 1635\u20131636. The new structure was surrounded by numerous annexes and outbuildings, including the Boyar Platform, Golden Staircase, Golden Porch, and several turrets. On Mikhail's behest, the adjoining Golden Tsaritsa's Chamber constructed back in the 1560s for Ivan IV's wife, was surmounted with 11 golden domes of the Upper Saviour Cathedral. The complex of the palace also incorporates several churches of earlier construction, including the Church of the Virgin's Nativity from the 1360s.\nThe palace consists of five stories. The third story was occupied by the czarina and her children; the fourth one contained the private apartments of the czar. The upper story is a tent-like structure where the Boyar Duma convened. The exterior, exuberantly decorated with brick tracery and colored tiles, is brilliantly painted in red, yellow, and orange. The interior used to be painted as well, but the original murals were destroyed by successive fires, particularly the great fire of 1812. In 1837, the interiors were renovated in accordance with old drawings in the Russian Revival style."}
{"id": "732687", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732687", "title": "Immanuel Levinas", "text": ""}
{"id": "732689", "revid": "48765755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732689", "title": "Interscholastic League of Honolulu", "text": "The Interscholastic League of Honolulu (ILH) is an athletic activity league whose membership is primarily private secondary schools in Honolulu, Hawai'i. The ILH has 24 member schools with over 13,000 student athletes participating in 37 different sports including cross country, track and field, swimming and diving, football, baseball, basketball, soccer, canoe paddling, kayaking, air riflery, water polo, judo, cheerleading, and sailing.\nHistory.\nThe ILH was founded in 1909 with Punahou, Kamehameha and McKinley High School making up the original membership. A number of public and private institutions joined soon after to bolster membership. In 1911 the ILH passed a rule stating that all players must be students, after schools supplemented their teams with recent graduates.\nAlong with the large number of private institutions that composed the membership of the ILH, there were five public high schools situated in Honolulu that were original members of the league: Farrington High School, Kaimuki High School, McKinley High School, Roosevelt High School and Kalani High School. In 1970, these five schools left the ILH to join the Oahu Interscholastic Association, a league now comprising all the public secondary schools on the island, leaving the ILH membership composed primarily with private institutions.\nOperations.\nThe Interscholastic League of Honolulu is governed by a set of policies that cover aspects such as: eligibility of students, age limits, academic standing, sports participation, outside participation rules and a codified transfer policy between teams.\nAs a large number of schools in the ILH have very small enrollment numbers, many schools cannot field teams that require a large number of players such as football, baseball, wrestling, etc. In response to this problem, and to give their students a chance to compete in these sports, these schools pool their players together and play under the moniker \"Pac-Five\". Pac-Five participates in many of the various sports offered by the ILH. Unfortunately for this combined athletic program, the athletes are not allowed to participate and score as a team in state championship individual sports. In this case, the athletes from each school must compete under their own school name, making it extremely difficult to win team awards due to the failure to meet the minimum number of athletes participating in an event in order to achieve a high team score.\nLeague events.\nTournaments hosted by the Interscholastic League of Honolulu have always been some of the most popular events in the State of Hawaii. Events such as the old Thanksgiving Day football game would annually draw crowds upwards of 20,000 to Honolulu Stadium to watch the league crown its champion. Although the Turkey Day Game has long been defunct, avid fans still often commute from neighbor islands to O'ahu to attend conference games in a wide range of sports."}
{"id": "732691", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732691", "title": "Vladivostok State University of Economics and Service", "text": "Vladivostok State University of Economics and Service (), or VSUES (), is a university located in Vladivostok, Russia. Over 17 000 students from Russia and abroad study at VSUES. It has 68 bachelor's programs, 20 master's programs, 22 Ph.D. programs, and 8 technical programs. Programs are in areas as diverse as economics and business, design, management, tourism, engineering, and international studies.\nHistory.\nVSUES was founded in 1967 with the goal of increasing the number of technical specialists in the Far East region. It was opened as the Far-Eastern Technological Institute with just two faculties. Vladivostok State University of Economics and Service (VSUES) received its current name in 1996 after receiving the status of university. \nCampus.\nThe VSUES campus includes 8 learning buildings, 20 laboratories, a library, 2 dormitories, 3 gyms, a driving school, an exposition hall, eating facilities, a polyclinic, computer labs, a small shopping center, and all classrooms and educational offices. Also on campus is the first statue honoring Joseph Mandelshtam in Russia, where every year students gather to read a selection of his poems.\nDepartments.\nVSUES has 11 different departments, including a school of law, a school of informational technologies, a school of sports and fitness, a college of service and design.\u2018\u2019\u2019Professional Learning\u2019\u2019\u2019\nInternational cooperation.\nVSUES is a member of the Erasmus+ program of the European Union. It has over 60 international partners, with 700 students coming to study at VSUES each year. Partners are mainly located in the Asia Pacific Region, the USA and Greece. In collaboration with foreign partners VSUES holds international projects and events.\nAnnual International fashion contest of young designers \u00abPYGMALION\u00bb has been held in VSUES for more than 20 years. \u00abPYGMALION\u00bb is a colorful spring festival of youth and talents, since it offers a great opportunity for talented young artists to present their ambitious projects to leading experts and to a broad audience. "}
{"id": "732692", "revid": "11612968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732692", "title": "Basilica Palladiana", "text": "The Basilica Palladiana is a Renaissance building in the central Piazza dei Signori in Vicenza, north-eastern Italy. The most notable feature of the edifice is the loggia, which shows one of the first examples of what have come to be known as the Palladian window, designed by a young Andrea Palladio, whose work in architecture was to have a significant effect on the field during the Renaissance and later periods.\nSince 1994, the Basilica Palladiana, together with other Palladian buildings in and around Vicenza, has been part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site \"City of Vicenza and the Palladian Villas of the Veneto\".\nHistory.\nThe building was originally constructed in the 15th century and was known as the Palazzo della Ragione, having been designed by Domenico da Venezia to include two pre-existing public palazzi. The building, which was in the Gothic style, served as the seat of government and also housed a number of shops on the ground floor. The -tall Torre Bissara precedes this structure, as it is known from as early as 1172; however, its height was increased on this occasion, and its pinnacle was finished in 1444. It has five bells in the chord of E. The 15th-century edifice had an upside-down cover, partly supported by large archivolts, inspired by the one built in 1306 for the eponymous building of Padua. The Gothic fa\u00e7ade was in red and \"gialletto\" marble of Verona, and is still visible behind the Palladio addition.\nA double order of columns was built by Tommaso Formenton in 1481\u20131494 to surround the palace. However, two years after its completion, the south-western corner collapsed. In the following decades, the Vicentine government called in architects such as Antonio Rizzo, Giorgio Spavento, Antonio Scarpagnino, Jacopo Sansovino, Sebastiano Serlio, Michele Sanmicheli and Giulio Romano to propose a reconstruction plan. In 1546, the Council of One Hundred chose a 40-year-old local architect, Andrea Palladio, to reconstruct the building starting from April 1549. Palladio added a new outer shell of marble classical forms, a loggia and a portico that now obscure the original Gothic architecture. He also dubbed the building a \"basilica\", after the ancient Roman civil structures of that name.\nThe Basilica was an expensive project (some 60,000 ducats once finished) and took a long time to complete. Palladio received for the work an income of five ducats a month for most of his life. In 1614\u2014thirty years after his death\u2014the building was completed, with the finishing of the main fa\u00e7ade on Piazza delle Erbe.\nDescription.\nDrawings by Palladio, from his original proposal of 1546 to the final construction, have been preserved. His solution, which also encompasses the necessary measure to adapt the addition to the pre-existing structure, is based on the so-called : this is a repetitive structure in which round arches are flanked by rectangular openings; the latter were of different size, in order to match the variable size of the internal bay. In the angular arcades, the architrave openings become very narrow. The serliana had been already used in the Veneto some years before by Jacopo Sansovino for his Biblioteca Marciana (1537), as well as in the reconstruction of the Polirone Abbey by Giulio Romano (1540).\nThe loggias in the lower floor were in the Doric order; the associated entablature has a frieze which alternates metope (decorated by dishes and bucrania) and triglyphs. The upper-floor loggias, by contrast, are in the Ionic order, with a continuous frieze entablature.\nThe parapet has statues by Giovanni Battista Albanese, Grazioli and Lorenzo Rubini. The clocktower has five bells in the chord of E major.\nConservation.\nSince 1994 the Basilica has been protected as part of the World Heritage Site also including the other Palladian buildings of Vicenza. The building now often hosts exhibitions in its large hall used for civic events.\nRestoration.\nA large restoration project started in 2007. In 2014 it won the European Union Prize for Cultural Heritage / Europa Nostra Award."}
{"id": "732693", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732693", "title": "German aerospace center", "text": ""}
{"id": "732700", "revid": "913908890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732700", "title": "Toll-like receptors", "text": ""}
{"id": "732701", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732701", "title": "Dormition Cathedral, Moscow", "text": "The Cathedral of the Dormition (), also known as the Assumption Cathedral or Cathedral of the Assumption, is a Russian Orthodox church dedicated to the Dormition of the Theotokos. It is located on the north side of Cathedral Square of the Moscow Kremlin in Russia, where a narrow alley separates the north from the Patriarch's Palace with the Twelve Apostles Church. Separately in the southwest, also separated by a narrow passage from the church, stands the Palace of Facets. The cathedral is regarded as the mother church of Muscovite Russia.\nThe cathedral was originally constructed using stone in 1326 under Ivan I. The cathedral was rebuilt between 1475 and 1479 at the behest of the grand prince Ivan III to a design by the Italian architect Aristotele Fioravanti. From 1547 to 1896, the coronation of Russian monarchs took place here. In addition, the cathedral is the burial place for most of the Moscow Metropolitans and Patriarchs of the Russian Orthodox Church; it also serves as a part of the Moscow Kremlin Museums.\nHistory.\nEarly history.\nArchaeological investigations in 1968 indicated that the site of the present cathedral was a medieval burial ground, supporting the hypothesis that a wooden church existed on the site in the 12th century. This was replaced by a limestone structure built around 1326, which has been mentioned in historical records.\nIn the 14th century, Metropolitan Peter persuaded Ivan I (Ivan Kalita) that he should build a cathedral to the Theotokos (Blessed Virgin Mary) in Moscow like the Cathedral of the Dormition in the capital city of Vladimir. Construction of the cathedral began on August 4, 1326, and the cathedral was finished and consecrated on August 4, 1327. At that time, Moscow became the capital of the Vladimir-Suzdal principality.\nBy the end of the 15th century, the old cathedral had become dilapidated, and in 1472, the Moscow architects Kryvtsov and Myshkin began construction of a new cathedral. Two years later, in May 1474, the building was nearing completion when it collapsed due to an earthquake.\nPresent structure.\nFollowing the disaster, Ivan III then invited Aristotele Fioravanti, a celebrated architect and engineer from Bologna, Italy, to come to Moscow and entrusted him with the task of designing the cathedral from scratch in the traditions of Russian architecture. The Assumption Cathedral in Vladimir was once again taken as a model for the building, and so Fioravanti travelled to Vladimir in order to study Russian methods of building. He designed a light and spacious masterpiece that combined the spirit of the Renaissance with Russian traditions. The foundation for the new cathedral was laid in 1475, and in 1479 the new cathedral was consecrated by Metropolitan Geronty. The interior was painted with frescoes and adorned with many icons, including the Theotokos of Vladimir and Blachernitissa.\nThe design of the new church, with its five domes (symbolic of Jesus Christ and the Four Evangelists), proved immensely popular and was taken as a template for numerous other churches throughout Russia.\nIn 1547, the coronation of the first Russian Tsar, Ivan the Terrible, took place in this cathedral. From 1721, it was the scene of the coronation of the Russian emperors. The ritual installation of metropolitans and patriarchs of the Russian Orthodox Church also took place in this cathedral, and their tombs are to be found here.\nThe cathedral suffered from many disasters in its history, including fires in 1518, 1547, 1682, and 1737 and looting under the armies of the Polish\u2013Lithuanian Commonwealth during the Time of Troubles in 1612. During the French occupation of Russia, it was looted and used as a horse stable.\nIt was thoroughly restored in 1894-1895 and from 1910 to 1918. On November 21, 1917, the cathedral was the setting for the installation of Tikhon (Bellavin), the Metropolitan of Moscow, as the first patriarch of the restored Patriarchate of Moscow. However, following the 1917 Russian Revolution, the new Bolshevik government closed all churches in the Moscow Kremlin and converted the cathedral into a museum. By special permission from Vladimir Lenin, the last Pascha (Easter service) was held in 1918. The final moment of this Paschal service was the subject of an unfinished painting by Pavel Korin entitled \"Farewell to Rus\". Most of the church treasures were transferred to the Kremlin Armory, or were sold overseas.\nThe building was repaired in 1949/50, 1960 and 1978.\nIn 1990, the Dormition Cathedral was returned to the church for periodic religious services, shortly before the dissolution of the Soviet Union. It was restored to the Russian Orthodox Church in 1991.\nArchitecture.\nThe Dormition Cathedral is an impressive structure, featuring six pillars, five apses, and five domes. Its design was inspired by the Assumption Cathedral in Vladimir, especially in its use of limestone masonry set on a raised limestone foundation. The cathedral follows a three-nave layout and includes a vaulted cross-dome, showcasing classic elements of its architectural roots. It is built of well-trimmed white-stone blocks. However, Fioravanti did not use cantilever vaults as was common in Russian architecture, but introduced groin vaults and transverse arches. For the upper portion of the building, he used specially-made bricks, larger than the standard Russian size, which reduced weight and allowed for more slender arch supports. Thus, the easternmost pair of columns in front of the apses is typically Russian in the use of massive rectangular open piers, whereas the remaining four are simpler Corinthian columns. The slim shape of these columns contributes significantly to the light, spacious effect of the interior.\nInside, the church decoration is dominated by its fresco painting. The huge iconostasis dates from 1547, but its two highest tiers are later additions from 1626 and 1653/1654 under Patriarch Nikon. In addition to its liturgical function, the iconostasis also served as a sort of trophy wall, in that Russian Tsars would add the most important icons from cities they had conquered to their collection. One of the oldest, \"icons with the bust of Saint George\" dates from the 12th century and was transferred to Moscow by Tsar Ivan IV on the conquest of the city of Veliky Novgorod in 1561.\nHowever, one of the most important icons of the Russian Orthodox Church, the \"Theotokos of Vladimir\" kept at the cathedral from 1395 to 1919, is now at the Tretyakov Gallery.\nNear the south entrance to the cathedral is the Monomach Throne of Ivan IV (1551).\nIn the arts.\nThe plaza in front of the cathedral is the setting for the famous Coronation Scene in Mussorgsky's opera \"Boris Godunov\"."}
{"id": "732705", "revid": "146242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732705", "title": "Rome II", "text": "Rome II may refer to:"}
{"id": "732709", "revid": "1935000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732709", "title": "Ample vector bundle", "text": ""}
{"id": "732713", "revid": "40014237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732713", "title": "Teatro Olimpico", "text": "The (\"Olympic Theatre\") is a theatre in Vicenza, northern Italy, constructed in 1580\u20131585. It was the final design by the Italian Renaissance architect Andrea Palladio and was not completed until after his death. The \"trompe-l'\u0153il\" onstage scenery, designed by Vincenzo Scamozzi to give the appearance of long streets receding to a distant horizon, was installed in 1585 for the first performance held in the theatre, and is the oldest surviving stage set still in existence. The full Roman-style \"scaenae frons\" back screen across the stage is made from wood and stucco imitating marble. It was the home of the Accademia Olimpica, which was founded there in 1555.\nThe is, along with the Teatro all'antica in Sabbioneta and the Teatro Farnese in Parma, one of only three Renaissance theatres remaining in existence. Both these theatres were based, in large measure, on the . It is still used several times a year.\nSince 1994 the , together with other Palladian buildings in and around Vicenza, has been part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site \"City of Vicenza and the Palladian Villas of the Veneto\".\nDesign and construction.\nPalladio's vision.\nThe is the last work by Palladio, and ranks amongst his highest masterworks. The Vicentine architect had returned to his native city in 1579, bringing with him a lifetime of detailed study into all aspects of ancient Roman architecture, and a more detailed understanding of the architecture of classical theatre than any other living person. Palladio had illustrated Daniele Barbaro's Italian translation of Vitruvius' ; the prints for this edition include floor plans for Roman theatres and an elevation for the \"scaenae frons\" of Vicenza's ruined Roman theatre, the Teatro Berga. As well, Palladio's papers include plans for the imagined reconstruction of the ruined Roman theatres in Pola and Verona.\nPalladio, a founder of the Olympic Academy (the \"Accademia Olimpica\", created in 1555), had already designed temporary theatre structures at various locations in the city. The most notable of these had been erected some seventeen years previously in the great hall of the Basilica Palladiana.\nIn 1579, the academy obtained the rights to build a permanent theatre in an old fortress, the \"Castello del Territorio,\" which had been turned into a prison and powder magazine before falling into disuse. Palladio was asked to produce a design, and despite the awkward shape of the old fortress, he decided to use the space to recreate an academic reconstruction of the Roman theatres that he had so closely studied. In order to fit a stage and seating area into the wide, shallow space, it was necessary for Palladio to flatten the semicircular seating area of the Roman theatre into an ellipse.\nScamozzi takes over.\nPalladio died in August 1580, only six months after construction had started on the theatre. Still, construction continued with Palladio's sketches and drawings serving as a guide, and Palladio's son, Silla, taking charge of the project. Soon, the other prominent Vicentine architect, Vincenzo Scamozzi, was called upon to complete the project.\nScamozzi had already stepped in to complete Palladio's other great unfinished project, the villa just east of Vicenza that is today known as Villa Capra \"La Rotonda\". It is a mark of Scamozzi's genius that both these projects are today regarded as being among Palladio's most successfully executed works.\nScamozzi's contributions include the \"Od\u00e8o\" and \"Antiod\u00e8o\" rooms, as well as the entrance archway which leads from the street, through an old medieval wall into the courtyard of the old fortress.\nIn order to make the archway fit with its surroundings, and to prepare visitors to the theatre for the transformation from medieval to classical surroundings, Scamozzi built the archway to be the same size and shape as the \"porta regia\" or triumphal arch at the center of the \"scaenae frons\" or rear wall of the stage. However, the entrance archway was rusticated to make it fit with the rough and well-worn wall into which it was being inserted.\nHowever, Scamozzi's most famous and most original contribution to the theatre was his elaborate stage set, with its remarkable \"trompe-l'\u0153il\" street views. He not only designed the sets, but also put considerable effort into designing the lighting that permitted the make-believe houses of the stage scenery to be lit from within, completing the illusion that these were real streets.\nDesign and construction of the scenery.\nAside from a single sketch of the \"scaenae frons\", Palladio left no plans as to what kind of scenery should be used onstage. His illustration of an idealized Roman \"scaenae frons\" for Barbaro's commentary on the writings of Vitruvius had shown perspective street views similar to those which would later be built in the , but the sketch of the proposed \"scaenae frons\" for the shows no such street scenes. The space behind the central archway and the doors to each side is blank.\nThe simplest explanation for the absence of any street scenes in this drawing is that the academy had not yet obtained the land on which the scenery would later be built. This land was acquired in 1582, after Scamozzi had taken charge of the project. This made it possible to extend the building (including a special apse-shaped projection to accommodate the longest and most elaborate of the seven street views). The academy's petition to the city government for the additional land anticipated that if acquired, the space would be used to create perspective scenery; it explains that the extra land would be used to build a theatre \"along the lines laid out by our colleague Palladio, who has designed it to permit perspective views.\"\nTherefore, Palladio can be given credit for having inspired the remarkable perspectives which are visible to the audience through the central archway of the \"scaenae frons\" (also known as the \"porta regia\") and also through the smaller side openings, but it is also appropriate to regard Scamozzi as the technical genius behind their remarkably successful execution.\nScamozzi's stage set was the first practical introduction of perspective views into Renaissance theatre. The scenery consists of seven hallways decorated to create the illusion of looking down the streets of a city from classical antiquity. Ancient Thebes, was to be the setting for the first play staged in the theatre. A set of seven extraordinarily realistic \"trompe-l'\u0153il\" false perspectives provide the illusion of long street views, while actually the sets recede only a few meters. The way in which seats in all parts of the theatre were provided with at least one perspective view can be seen by observing the theatre floor plan and following the sight lines of audience members in different parts of the theatre.\nHistory.\nThe theatre was inaugurated on 3 March 1585 with a production of Sophocles' \"Oedipus Rex\", with music by Andrea Gabrielli. However, the theatre was virtually abandoned after only a few productions. The scenes, which had been created in wood and stucco for \"Oedipus Rex\", and which were meant to represent the streets of Thebes, were never removed: despite bombings and other vicissitudes, they have miraculously preserved into modern times. The original lighting system of glass oil lamps, designed by Scamozzi, heightened the illusion of space, has been used only a few times because of the high cost and the risk of fire. Scamozzi's lighting system was used when, in 1997, the theatre was again employed for a production of \"Oedipus Rex\".\nThe is still used for plays and musical performances, but audience sizes are limited to 400, for conservation reasons. Performances take place in two theatre seasons:classical plays in the autumn and the festival \"Il Suono dell'Olimpico\" in the spring. It is not equipped with heating or air conditioning, which could damage the delicate wooden structures.\nThe Theatre has been used as a filming location for films such as \"Don Giovanni\" (1979) and \"Casanova\" (2005).\nThe hosts the awards ceremony of Dedalo Minosse International Prize for commissioning a building.\nVicenza American High School, a military base located on Caserma Ederle in Vicenza, on occasions used the theater for commencement exercises for the graduating classes for a number of years, including, but not limited to the late 1970s and early 1980s. However, as class sizes significantly increased, they have stopped using the theater for graduation ceremonies.\nPrecursors.\nSome authors have incorrectly stated that when the was constructed in 1580\u201385, it was the first purpose-built theatre in Europe in over a thousand years. In reality, the theatre was one of a number of new permanent theatres being constructed at the time. Records show that permanent theatres were constructed in Ferrara (1531), Rome (1545), Mantua (1549), Bologna (1550), Siena (1561), and Venice (1565). This last theatre was designed by Palladio himself, for the Compagnia della Calza.\nInfluence.\nOver the centuries, the has had many admirers, but relatively few imitators. One critic has observed: \"In the history of theatre design, the was a temporary hiatus, for succeeding generations adopted the proscenium arch and painterly stage sets. Palladio's ideas are closer to the spirit of the modern theatre, which favors the relationship of audience to action.\" Another notes: \"The rigid form of the scenic arrangements of the [...] precluded any further development,\" and that the theatre was, in a sense, a prisoner of its creators' emphasis on \"considerations of archaeology\" and truthfulness to the Roman model. The successful completion of Palladio's experiment in reconstructing the ancient model meant that there was no longer any need to pursue the objective of recovering the Roman past; it was now possible to start making innovations, starting with eliminating the rigid and unchangeable scaenae frons and the unchanging perspective views.\nThe first theatre to draw inspiration from the , and the one in which its influence is the most obvious, is the Teatro all'antica in Sabbioneta. This theatre, which was designed by Vincenzo Scamozzi, is sometimes also referred to, somewhat confusingly, as the \"\", and some of its design elements, including most notably the colonnade behind the seating area and the self-conscious references to ancient Rome, are clearly drawn from the original . However, the elaborate \"scaenae frons\" is absent in Sabbioneta, and only a single perspective view, along a single street, is employed onstage. As well, the seating area departs radically from Palladio's elliptical plan (perhaps as a result of the much narrower shape of the building in which the theatre is housed).\nThe English architect Inigo Jones visited the shortly after its completion, and took careful notes, in which he expressed particular admiration for the perspective views: \"[T]he chief artifice was that whear so ever you sat you saw one of thes Prospects...\""}
{"id": "732714", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732714", "title": "Alexander Schmemann", "text": "Alexander Dmitrievich Schmemann (; 13 September 1921 \u2013 13 December 1983) was an influential Orthodox priest, theologian, and author who spent most of his career in the United States.\nBorn in Estonia to \u00e9migr\u00e9s from the Russian Revolution, he grew up primarily in France, where there was a large \u00e9migr\u00e9 community in Paris. After being educated there in both Russian and French schools and universities from 1946 to 1951, he taught in Paris. That year he immigrated with his family to New York City to teach at Saint Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary. In 1962, he was selected as dean of the Seminary, serving in this position until his death. For 30 years, his sermons in Russian were broadcast by Radio Liberty into the Soviet Union, where they were influential as a voice from beyond the Iron Curtain.\nSchmemann was among the leaders in forming the Orthodox Church in America as an autocephalous institution, which status it gained from the Russian Orthodox Church in 1970. While identifying strongly as Russian, Schmemann sought to make the OCA independent of any ethnic or national group and open to all peoples. He believed the Orthodox Church had a mission to the West. In his teachings and writings, he explored the many ways that Christian liturgy was an expression of Christian theology.\nEarly life and studies.\nAlexander Schmemann was born as one of twin boys in 1921 in Tallinn, Estonia, into a family of Russian \u00e9migr\u00e9s from St. Petersburg. His twin brother was named . Their grandfather Nikolai Schmemann had been a Lutheran of Baltic German ancestry, who served as a senator and a member of the State Council in St. Petersburg, along with numerous other foreigners. After Schmemann married a Russian Orthodox woman, their children were raised in that tradition, as required by the state. His father Dmitry, was studying law when interrupted by the First World War. He served as an officer of the Imperial Life-Guards, also in St. Petersburg. After the Revolution broke out, Schmemann fought with the Life-Guards and other anti-Bolshevik forces, but they were ultimately pushed into Estonia, where they disbanded.\nWhen Schmemann was a child, his family moved to Paris, France, where, like most children of the large \u00e9migr\u00e9 community, he was first educated in Russian-language schools. There were tens of thousands of Russians in Paris, generally gathered in St. Petersburg and Moscow-affiliated communities. But Schmemann also chose to go to a French lyc\u00e9e. During this period, he served as an altar boy and subdeacon at Saint Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, participating in the liturgy and building his life in the church. In college, he studied the Orthodox church and Christian history related to the Byzantine and Roman churches more deeply. At the University of Paris (1940\u20131945), he wrote a thesis on theocracy and the Eastern Roman Empire. He began graduate studies at St. Sergius Orthodox Theological Institute, also in Paris.\nIn 1943, Schmemann married Juliana Osorguine (also spelled as Osorgina) (1923\u20132017), whose family after the Revolution had been expelled from their estate, which included the village of Sergiyevskoye (now Koltsovo) south of Moscow. Her family was also \u00e9migr\u00e9s in Paris, where Russians gathered in St. Petersburg and Moscow-related communities. The Osorguines attended a small Russian Orthodox Church in Clamart near Paris, known as Saints Constantine and Helen Church. After their marriage, Schmemann completed his five-year program of theological studies in 1945 at the St. Sergius Institute. He studied with the noted Russian theologian, Archpriest Sergei Bulgakov, among others. He was also influenced by major thinkers involved in the theological revival of French Roman Catholicism, such as Jean Dani\u00e9lou, Louis Bouyer, and several others.\nThe couple had three children together in France: a daughter born in 1944, a son Serge Schmemann born in 1945, and another daughter, born in 1948. All grew up speaking and identifying as Russian, although they also drew from French and American cultures. They moved to the United States in 1951. Serge Schmemann later became a journalist. His assignments included working for the Associated Press (AP) and \"The New York Times\" in the Soviet Union and, after the dissolution, in Russia for several years.\nCareer.\nOn 22 October 1946, Schmemann was ordained to the presbyterate of the Orthodox Church by Vladimir (Tikhonicky). From 1946\u201351, he taught church history at St. Sergius Institute in Paris. After moving to the United States (see below), he completed his doctorate at St. Sergius Institute in 1959, with Fr. Nicholas Afanassieff and Fr. John Meyendorff acting as examiners.\nSchmemann was invited by Father Georges Florovsky, who had briefly taught in Paris after being rescued in 1947 from Soviet-dominated Czechoslovakia, to join the faculty of Saint Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary, which had been established in 1938 in New York City. He and his family immigrated to the United States in 1951. This postwar period was one of considerable immigration of Russian \u00e9migr\u00e9s to the US. Many settled in and around New York, including in towns on Long Island, such as Sea Cliff, Glen Cove, and Oyster Bay.\nWhen the seminary moved to its present campus in Crestwood, New York in 1962, Father Alexander was selected for the post of dean, which he would hold until his death. He also served as adjunct professor at Columbia University, New York University, Union Theological Seminary, and General Theological Seminary in New York, extending the connections of the Orthodox Church in America. Much of his focus at St Vladimir's was on liturgical theology, which emphasizes the liturgical tradition of the Church as a major sign and expression of the Christian faith.\nHe was invited as an Orthodox observer to the Second Vatican Council of the Catholic Church, held from 1962 to 1965.\nTeaching generations of future clergy at St. Vladimir's, Schmemann was active in the establishment of the Orthodox Church in America. From its beginnings related to colonial Russian missionaries in Alaska, it had expanded through the 20th century to incorporate new immigrant Orthodox populations from Greece and southeastern Europe. By the mid-20th century, it was known as the Russian Orthodox Greek Catholic Orthodox Church, reflecting these congregations. In 1970, the OCA was granted autocephaly by the Russian Orthodox Church. The Churches of Constantinople, Antioch, and most of the remaining Orthodox churches remained in communion with the OCA, but did not recognize it as autocephalous, saying it was not a unified church.\nSince 1970, the OCA has become largely an American church: Metropolitan Theodosius was the first American-born primate of the church, serving from 1974 to his retirement in 2002. By that time, the church had 900,000 members in 725 parishes, and in many churches, the services were in English. The original Metropolia had ten dioceses, and there were also dioceses for Bulgarian, Romanian, and Albanian congregations. There are also several parishes in Mexico, organized as what is known as the Exarchate of Mexico.\nThousands of Schmemann's Russian-language sermons were broadcast into the Soviet Union on \"Radio Liberty\" over a period of 30 years. He gained a broad following of listeners across the Soviet Union, although the government tried to block these broadcasts. Among them was the writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn; the two men became friends after Solzhenitsyn immigrated to the West.\nAt the time of his death, Schmemann was the dean of the Saint Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary, a position he had held since 1962. Schmemann died of cancer in 1983 in Crestwood, New York, where the seminary was located in Westchester County just north of the city.\nLegacy.\nFr Schmemann was accorded the title of \"protopresbyter\", the highest honor that can be bestowed on a married Orthodox priest. He was awarded honorary degrees from Butler University, General Theological Seminary, Lafayette College, Iona College, and Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology.\nSchmemann's work, including entire courses on his theology, are taught at theological schools. In 2018, the Metropolitan Andrey Sheptytsky Institute of Eastern Christian Studies at St. Michael's College in Toronto offered a course titled \"The Liturgical Theology of Alexander Schmemann (1921-1983)\".\nIn 1984, soon after his death, CBS network produced a documentary about him and his work, \"The Spirit of St. Vladimir's.\"\nWorks.\nFr. Schmemann published many books and articles, some directed at general readers. \"For the Life of the World\", a popular volume on Christian faith as reflected in liturgy, has been translated into eleven languages. Originally prepared as a study guide for the National Student Christian Federation in 1963, it was published anonymously by the underground \"samizdat\" in the Soviet Union.\n\"The Eucharist\" was finished just before Schmemann's death. This and several collections of his writings were published posthumously."}
{"id": "732715", "revid": "50666774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732715", "title": "They'll Do It Every Time", "text": "They'll Do It Every Time was a newspaper comic strip, created by Jimmy Hatlo. It was published for almost eight decades, first appearing on February 4, 1929, and ending on February 3, 2008. The title of the strip became a popular catchphrase.\nPublication history.\nHatlo, a sports and editorial cartoonist for the \"San Francisco Call-Bulletin,\" created the feature to fill space on the comics page when another strip's galleys did not arrive by the publication deadline. Hatlo kept producing the strip as a daily feature, and before long readers were sending fan mail. The feature proved so popular that it was eventually syndicated by King Features Syndicate beginning in 1936. A larger, single vignette Sunday panel was added on July 4, 1943, and ran for six weeks. It was replaced on August 15, 1943 with the Hatlo-produced spinoff \"Little Iodine\". A multiple vignette Sunday panel was introduced on May 8, 1949. By 1950, \"They'll Do It Every Time\" was being published in more than 400 newspapers throughout the United States and Canada.\nCharacters and story.\nThe gags illustrated minor absurdities, frustrations, hypocrisies, ironies and misfortunes of everyday life. These were displayed in a single-panel or two-panel format. If two panels, the first panel would show some deceptive, pretentious, unwitting or scheming human behavior, with the second panel would reveal the truth of the situation.\nRegular features of the Sunday installments included \"Then the Fun Began\", \"Unka Jimmy's Doghouse\" and \"Hatlo's History\". The most notable of these was \"The Hatlo Inferno\" in which annoying individuals would receive hellish comeuppance for their perceived sins and hypocrisies. \"The Hatlo Inferno\" was featured throughout 1953 and 1954 and returned for a final run of episodes in 1957. It proved so popular that Avon Books published a paperback collection of the material entitled \"Hatlo's Inferno\".\nIn its early decades, a timid man named Henry Tremblechin was a recurring victim of the strip's observations. Tremblechin's bratty daughter, Little Iodine appeared so often she graduated into her own comic strip (Aug 15, 1943 \u2013 Aug 14, 1983), comic book (1949\u201362), a 1946 movie and a 1988 animated cartoon show.\nA tip of the Hatlo hat.\nIdeas and gags usually came from suggestions by readers, who were credited with a small acknowledgment box with a tiny drawing of Hatlo tipping his hat. Hatlo continued working on \"They'll Do It Every Time\" until his death in 1963 when the team of Al Scaduto and Bob Dunn took over the strip. The readers continued to be credited for their suggestions, but the drawing of the \"Hatlo hat\" was dropped.\nAfter Dunn's death in 1989, \"They'll Do It Every Time\" was written and drawn by Scaduto, who died December 8, 2007, at age 79. King Features announced that the strip would not continue with another cartoonist and ceased publication on February 2, 2008. At the time of Scaduto's death, King Features was distributing the panel to more than 100 American newspapers.\nAwards.\nThe strip, as well as Bob Dunn, received the National Cartoonists Society's Newspaper Panel Cartoon Award for 1968, 1969 and 1979 (with Al Scaduto), plus the Reuben Award for 1975. Al Scaduto won the Newspaper Panel Cartoon Award for 1991 and 1997 for his work on the strip."}
{"id": "732716", "revid": "438988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732716", "title": "List of open-source video games", "text": "This is a list of open-source video games. Open-source video games are assembled from and are themselves open-source software, including public domain games with public domain source code. This list also includes games in which the engine is open-source but other data (such as art and music) is under a more restrictive license.\nOpen engine and free data.\nThe games in this table are developed under a free and open-source license with free content which allows reuse, modification and commercial redistribution of the whole game. Licenses can be public domain, GPL, BSD, Creative Commons, zlib, MIT, Artistic License or other (see the comparison of Free and open-source software and the Comparison of free and open-source software licenses).\nOpen-source games with non-free data (or not entirely free data).\nOnly the game engines in this table are developed under an open-source license, which means that the reuse and modification of only the code is permitted. As some of the games' content created by the developers (sound, graphics, video and other artwork) is proprietary or restricted in use, the whole games are non-free and restricted in reuse (depending on the content license). The motivation of developers to keep own game content non-free while they open the source code may be the protection of the game as sellable commercial product. It could also be the prevention of a commercialization of a free product in future, e.g. when distributed under a non-commercial license like CC NC. By replacing the non-free content with free content, these games could also become completely free. In practice, many projects include a mixture of free and non-free own content.\nOpen-source remakes with non-free data from the proprietary original.\nThe video game remakes in this table were developed under an open-source license which allows usually the reuse, modification and commercial redistribution of the code. The required game content (artwork, data, etc.) is taken from a proprietary and non-opened commercial game, so that the whole game is non-free. See also the Game engine recreation page.\nSource-available games.\nVideo games in this table are source-available, but are neither open-source software according to the OSI definition nor free software according to the Free Software Foundation. These games are released under a license with limited rights for the user, for example only the rights to read and modify the game's source for personal or educational purposes but no reuse rights beside the game's original context are granted. Typical licenses are the creative commons \"non-commercial\" licenses (e.g. CC BY-NC-SA), MAME like licenses or several shared source licenses.\nProprietary developed games, later released under varying licenses.\nFor games that were originally developed proprietary as commercial closed source product, see also ."}
{"id": "732717", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732717", "title": "Genevieve Lloyd", "text": "Genevieve Mary Lloyd (born 16 October 1941 at Cootamundra, New South Wales), is an Australian philosopher and feminist.\nBiography.\nLloyd studied philosophy at the University of Sydney in the early 1960s and then at Somerville College, Oxford. Her D.Phil, awarded in 1973, was on \"Time and Tense\". From 1967 until 1987 she lectured at the Australian National University, during which period she developed her most influential ideas and wrote \"The Man of Reason\", which was published in 1984. In 1987 she was appointed to the chair of philosophy at the University of New South Wales, being the first female professor of philosophy appointed in Australia. She was elected a Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities in 1995. On retirement, she was appointed Professor Emerita.\nPhilosophical work.\nLloyd's 1979 paper \"The Man of Reason\" explores the influence of seventeenth century rationalist philosophy on contemporary views of gender and reason. It argues that Cartesian method encouraged a new polarisation between reason, on the one side, and emotion and imagination on the other. The \"Man of Reason\" was further elevated to an ethical (not merely epistemic) ideal in Spinoza's Ethics. Even though Descartes and Spinoza's rationalism is less popular today, Lloyd argues that we continue to live with the ideal of the Man of Reason their work gave rise to. She went on to develop these ideas further in her 1984 book of the same name."}
{"id": "732720", "revid": "11394119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732720", "title": "Deutsches zentrum fuer luft und raumfahrt", "text": ""}
{"id": "732721", "revid": "11394119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732721", "title": "Deutsches zentrum luft raumfahrt", "text": ""}
{"id": "732725", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732725", "title": "Zhu Yu (artist)", "text": "Zhu Yu (; born 1970) is a performance artist living in Beijing, China. Zhu graduated from the Affiliated High School of the China Central Academy of Fine Arts in 1991. His work deals with subjects of contemporary art.\nBackground.\nZhu Yu is often termed the most controversial and criticized artist in China. Zhu graduated from the Affiliated High School of the Central Academy of Fine Arts in 1991. His contemporary performance art raises questions about moral agendas and draws an audience through its shock value. His artwork often encompasses the human body. He is categorized by some critics as an artist of the \"cadaver school,\" which consists of artists who tend to use human body parts in their work.\nYu's most famous piece of conceptual art, titled \"Eating People,\" was performed at a Shanghai arts festival in 2000. It consisted of him cooking and eating what is alleged to be a human fetus. The picture, circulated on the internet via e-mail in 2001, provoked investigations by both the FBI and Scotland Yard. It was intended as \"shock art\". Snopes and other urban legend sites have said the \"fetus\" used by Zhu Yu was most likely constructed from a duck's body and a doll's head. Other images from another art exhibit were falsely circulated along with Zhu Yu's photos and claimed to be evidence of fetus soup. The piece's cannibalistic theme caused a stir in Britain when Yu's work was featured on a Channel 4 documentary exploring Chinese Contemporary Art in 2003. In response to the public reaction, Mr. Yu stated, \"No religion forbids cannibalism. Nor can I find any law which prevents us from eating people. I took advantage of the space between morality and the law and based my work on it\". Yu created a fictional film in 2003 titled \"Corpse Case\" which was based on \"Eating People\". In it, the main character eats a fetus which was stolen from a medical school. \nImages from the piece have also been used in anti-Chinese propaganda, disseminated by e-mail and social media with a short text attached explaining the images show China's \"hottest food\" and that dead fetuses can be bought for 10\u201312,000 yen (approximately US$100\u2013US$120). Recipients are encouraged to forward the mail, and the explanatory text is written in both English and Korean script. The Turkistan Islamic Party claimed that \"Muslim children in Turkistan\" were eaten by the Chinese, showing the faked pictures by Zhu Yu and photos of fake fetuses from an art exhibit.\nExhibitions.\nZhu Yu has been involved in many group exhibitions including Post-Sense Sensibility- Alien Bodies &amp; Delusion in Beijing (January 1999), and The Third Guangzhou Triennial in Guangzhou (September 2008), which involved 181 artists from 40 countries.\nMost notable is his work at the Fuck Off Exhibit curated by Ai Weiwei and Feng Boyi in Shanghai, 2000. This controversial exhibit hosted 48 contemporary avant-garde artists. This is where his most controversial piece of performance art \"Eating People\" appeared. Among his other solo exhibitions are Plaything (Long March Space, Beijing 2010) and Leftover (Xin Beijing Art Gallery, Beijing, 2007).\nSignificant works.\nThe Foundation of All Epistemology: This work appeared in the 1998 group exhibition \"It's All Right\" in Shanghai. For this piece, Zhu Yu cut and boiled five human brains which were purchased from a local hospital. He placed them in neatly labelled jars that he then signed with his own name. Zhu put these jars of brains up for sale in a market that sponsored the exhibit. He ended up selling 15 bottles each for the price of 98 yuans.\nEating People: In his performance art piece Eating People, Zhu photographs himself cooking and eating a human fetus that he divided into five parts. Zhu says that \"I herewith announce my intention and my aim to eat people as a protest against mankind's moral idea that he/she cannot eat people.\" In further response to Zhu's performance, The Ministry of Culture cited a menace to social order and the spiritual health of the Chinese people, and banned exhibitions involving culture, animal abuse, corpses, and overt violence and sexuality. However, this piece did not even appear at the exhibit; the night before the exhibition, Ai Weiwei collaborated with Zhu and the photographs were removed from the gallery. This piece was thought particularly controversial, and organizers did not want to risk government censorship for the rest of the exhibit. The response to this work stemmed from its appearance on the internet shortly after. This later generated the question of whether eating babies was accepted in Asia on various myth-debunking websites. The authenticity of the fetus has also been called into question with some claiming it's an animal carcass with a doll parts.\nPocket Theology: Appearing in the 1999 group exhibition \"Post-Sense Sensibility- Alien Bodies &amp; Delusion\" in Beijing, curated by Wu Meichun and Qiu Zhije. A long coiling rope was gripped by a severed, decomposing arm which was suspended by a meat hook. This display was held in a small room in the basement that was being rented by a group of Chinese artists who organised the exhibition. Viewers were forced to walk over the rope which filled the entire space.\nSkin Graft: This performance art installation appeared in the 2000 exhibition \"Infatuation with Injury\" organized by Li Xianting. In the exhibit, Zhu uses his own flesh as a canvas. Photos were shown of the trunk of a quartered pig lying on a hospital bed. Zhu grafted a piece of his own skin onto a section of damaged skin from the pig. Two photos of this process appeared in the exhibit; one that showed the surgical process, and another which featured the artist sewing his own skin onto the pig carcass. Zhu stood by the exhibit and lifted his shirt to show the scar which stood as evidence of the procedure.\nLeftover: This series was exhibited by the Xin Beijing Art Gallery at the China International Gallery Exposition. Zhu photographed plates that held bits of leftover food and then painted those images on canvas with oil. Eight paintings appeared at the Xin Beijing Art Gallery.\nRecent works.\nZhu Yu's most recent works follow his ideas with the Leftover exhibit, in which he paints highly detailed portraits of mundane objects. His series \"Stain,\" features a bird's-eye view of teacups that contain the dregs of tea leaves. The next series, \"Pebble,\" appeared at Zhu's solo exhibition \"Play Thing\", at the Long March Space in Beijing, 2010. This is another series of highly detailed, realistic paintings that show individual pebbles, each featuring a slightly different hue or shape. This work implies that all life can be reduced to a pebble, a simple object from which much meaning can be derived."}
{"id": "732727", "revid": "31876559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732727", "title": "Max Hoffmann", "text": "Carl Adolf Maximilian Hoffmann (25 January 1869 \u2013 8 July 1927) was a German military officer and strategist. As a staff officer at the beginning of World War I, he was Deputy Chief of Staff of the 8th Army, soon promoted Chief of Staff. Hoffmann, along with Erich Ludendorff, masterminded the devastating defeat of the Russian armies at Tannenberg and the Masurian Lakes. He then held the position of Chief of Staff of the Eastern Front. At the end of 1917, he negotiated with Russia to sign the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk.\nEarly life and prewar military career.\nHoffmann was born in Homberg (Efze) and was the son of a district court judge. From 1879 to 1887, he studied at the gymnasium in the city of Nordhausen. After his graduation, he volunteered for the 72nd Infantry Regiment. One of his comrades affectionately recalled, \"He was almost the worst athlete, horseman and swordsman of them all... he exceeded them in his terrifying appetite\". As an ensign, he studied at the Kriegsschule (Officer School) in Neisse from October 1887 to August 1888, graduated with an Imperial commendation and was commissioned second lieutenant. From 1895 to 1898, as a first lieutenant, he attended the Prussian War Academy and then was sent to Russia to study the Russian language. He was on the General Staff from 1899 to 1901 in the First Department (Russia and the Nordic States). In 1901, he was promoted to captain and assigned as a staff officer to V Army Corps. Two years later, he moved to command a company in the 33rd Fusilier Regiment. In 1904 the General Staff sent him to Manchuria as an observer with the Imperial Japanese Army in its war against the Imperial Russian Army. During that time, he is remembered for breaching protocol in the presence of other foreign observers when a Japanese general refused to allow him on to a hill to watch a battle. That led him to respond that the general was \"a yellow-skin\" and that he was \"uncivilized if you don't let me go over that hill\".\nHe returned to the staff twenty months later before he was assigned as the first staff officer of the 1st Division, stationed in K\u00f6nigsberg, East Prussia. In 1911, he became an instructor at the War Academy for two years before he moved to the 112th Infantry Regiment, where he had a field and then a staff position and was promoted to lieutenant colonel.\nWorld War I.\nEighth Army.\nThe German Empire entered World War I on 1 August 1914; Hoffmann became the first general staff officer of the German Eighth Army with the responsibility of defending Germany's eastern border from Russian attack. The bulk of the German Army, carrying out the Schlieffen Plan, massed in the west to gain decisive victory there by knocking France out of the war. The Russian mobilization, secretly begun as early as 25 July 1914,\nbecame a general mobilisation on 30 July 1914 (before Germany declared war), and it proceeded much more quickly than Berlin had anticipated:\nthe Russian First Army crossed the eastern frontier of East Prussia on 17 August 1914. The German Eighth Army attacked the invaders unsuccessfully at the Battle of Gumbinnen on 20 August 1914. The Germans learned that the Russian Second Army was approaching the southern frontier of East Prussia in the west. To avoid being cut off, the alarmed Eighth Army commander, Maximilian von Prittwitz, proposed to retreat over the Vistula River and to abandon East Prussia to the invaders. He soon reconsidered and instead decided to move the bulk of his forces to block the Russian Second Army from reaching the Vistula, but on 22 August 1914 he and his chief of staff had already been relieved in favor of Paul von Hindenburg and Erich Ludendorff respectively. (Hoffmann knew Ludendorff well: they had been neighbours in the same building in Berlin for several years.)\nThe two Russian armies were too far apart to aid each other readily, and the Germans could gauge their lack of co-ordination from intercepted radio-messages. After Hindenburg and Ludendorff arrived in the east in their special train on 23 August 1914, they adopted Hoffmann's plan\nfor the Eighth Army to manoeuvre to encircle and annihilate Alexander Samsonov's Russian Second Army. As a result the German forces won the crucial victory of the Battle of Tannenberg in late August 1914, saving the rest of Germany from invasion. Hoffmann saw the propaganda-value of casting the German victory as long-awaited revenge for a nearby medieval defeat in 1410, and so he suggested naming the engagement \"Tannenberg\" (though the fighting actually took place much closer to Allenstein). (Ludendorff also claimed credit for the naming, but it was Hindenburg, who had lost an ancestor at the earlier battle, who requested that the Kaiser use it.) Next, the Eighth Army turned east and mauled Paul von Rennenkampf's Russian First Army at the First Battle of the Masurian Lakes in early September 1914 this freed most of East Prussia.\nNinth Army and \"Ober Ost\".\nThen, Hindenburg, Ludendorff and Hoffmann led a new Ninth Army in blocking a Russian attempt to invade German Silesia, continuing the campaign after being given command of all of the German forces on the Eastern Front, which were designated as \"Ober Ost\". In the Battle of \u0141\u00f3d\u017a they ended the immediate threat by outflanking the Russians and capturing Poland's second city. Hoffmann believed that if given the reinforcements that they requested for the battle, they might have knocked Russia out of the war. During the winter lull in the fighting, \"Ober Ost\" struggled unsuccessfully to shift major operations eastward in the coming year and claimed that it could force the Russians out of the war by encircling its armies in the Polish salient.\n\"Ober Ost\" began 1915 with a surprise attack in a snowstorm that encircled a Russian army, completed the liberation of East Prussia and obtained a foothold in Russia's Baltic provinces. Hoffmann believed that if it were allowed to continue the incursion, he might have inflicted a major, perhaps mortal, defeat on the Russians. Instead, the Germans were ordered to stop in favour of a major thrust in the south of Poland at Gorlice and Tarn\u00f3w in which a joint Austro-German army gradually battered the Russians out of Galicia (Austro-Hungarian Poland). To assist, \"Ober Ost\" was ordered to mount similar costly head-on attacks in northern Poland. After the Russians had evacuated Poland, \"Ober Ost\" was permitted to continue thrusting into Russia's Baltic provinces. By the start of winter, its headquarters were in the Lithuanian city of Kovno. Hoffmann saw to the construction a strong defensive line on the new front and visited all of the units: \"I have crawled through all the trenches... The mud is terrible\". Meanwhile, Ludendorff set up an administration for the occupied region.\nDuring the winter, the Russians finally armed their troops adequately. In the spring, masses of Russians attacked the \"Ober Ost\" entrenchments. The German line held, except for one segment that was vacated and then recaptured in April. To exploit the successful defence, \"Ober Ost\" pleaded for reinforcements to enable it to capture the fortress of Riga and to roll up the Russian armies in the north, but the Supreme Commander focused on his fruitless attacks on Verdun. On 4 June the Russians attacked the Austro-Hungarian lines in the south. In a few days, the defenders lost 200,000 prisoners, and the Russians penetrated through their fortifications. \"Ober Ost\" sent reinforcements south and more had to come from the west. To Hoffmann, the Austrian front was \"like a mouth full of sensitive teeth\". At last, in July, Hindenburg's command was extended further south, including many of the Austro-Hungarians on the front. Therefore, they moved their headquarters south to Brest-Litovsk. When the Russians also renewed their attacks in the north, the German reserves in the east were a single cavalry brigade. In addition to plugging holes along their long front, the staff was busy organizing training for the Austro-Hungarians whom they now commanded and the Russians were still pushing back.\nChief of the staff in east.\nThe crisis worsened when Romania entered the war on the side of the Entente. Hindenburg and Ludendorff became the Supreme Commanders. Field Marshal Prince Leopold of Bavaria, whom Hoffmann regarded as \"a clever soldier and a distinguished superior officer\", took command of three army groups that included both German and Austro-Hungarian troops and Hoffmann was elated to become his chief of staff with promotion to major general: \"I shall actually become an Excellenz!\". He was supported by a highly-competent staff. Eventually, they commanded all of the forces of the Central Powers on the Eastern Front: German, Austro-Hungarian, Ottoman, and Bulgarian. Since he was no longer able to visit the front in person, he was assigned a General Staff officer, Major Wachenfeld, for this purpose. The Russians shifted their attacks to the south to support Romania but were beaten decisively by an army with troops from all of the Central Powers.\nThat autumn, Franz Joseph I of Austria died. His successor, Charles I, who had been a cavalry officer, appointed himself commander-in-chief and replaced their able chief of staff with \"a more conciliatory personage\".\nHoffmann had a two-hour conversation in which the young emperor \"gave his opinion on military matters by which he displayed his great want of understanding in all he said\".\nHoffmann corresponded and met with political leaders like Wolfgang Kapp, a founder of the right-wing Fatherland Party who after the war led a failed putsch to overturn the Weimar Republic.\nWhen 1917 dawned, the battering made the Russian infantry seem to have suffered when attacking, and most were now willing only to defend their positions. The February Revolution then led to a new Russian government, under Alexander Kerensky. Hoffmann wanted to attack, but only a single division was given to him to reduce a Russian bridgehead. In July, Kerensky launched an offensive in Galicia in the hope of reinvigorating public support for the war. Hoffmann had anticipated the attack and was eager to launch his countermove.\nAt first, the Austro-Hungarians lost ground, but on 19 July, Prince Leopold and Hoffmann were in a tower to watch the Germans counterattack the flank of the Russian incursion slicing through to the rear. In a few days, the Russians were driven out of Galicia, but further pursuit had to be delayed while the railroads were repaired. Hoffmann was rewarded with the Oak Leaves for his \"Pour le M\u00e9rite\". On 1 September, he attacked the Riga fortresses, by throwing pontoon bridges across the intervening river. He took Riga, but most of the defenders had slipped out.\nOn 26 November, he received a wireless message from the new Russian Bolshevik government, which requested an armistice. The Germans sent a delegation to Hoffmann's headquarters after they had dining with the delegation in the mess room that included a peasant and a political assassin. He was dismayed that they had been received as representing Russia. He assisted Foreign Secretary Richard von K\u00fchlmann during the negotiations for the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk since his fluent Russian was an asset. Austro-Hungarian Foreign Minister Ottokar Czernin found, \"The General [Hoffmann] combined expert knowledge and energy with a good deal of calm and ability, but also not a little of Prussian brutality...\". The negotiations dragged on; the major sticking point was that the Russians would not be given back Poland, Lithuania or Courland, which the Central Powers maintained had opted for independence.\nIn December 1917, he was summoned to Berlin, where at lunch, the Kaiser ordered him, despite his objections, to give his opinion regarding the postwar German\u2013Polish border. He favoured taking from Poland a modest defensive strip to acquire as few new Slavic subjects as possible. The Supreme Commanders wanted much of Poland and so they were furious when the Kaiser endorsed his viewpoint. Both threatened to resign; the Kaiser gave in on the border but refused Ludendorff's demand for Hoffmann to be sent off to command a division. Hindenburg does not mention him in his memoirs.\nLudendorff undermined him with a press campaign that alleged that his ideas came from his Jewish wife, who was a well-known artist from a family of converts. Hoffmann wrote \"great men can also be very small sometimes\".\nAfter a break, the negotiations were resumed with Foreign Commissar Leon Trotsky, who led the Russian delegation; he stopped them from eating with the enemy. Hoffmann did not write any clause in the treaty, but Trotsky \"did not doubt for a single minute that... General Hoffmann was the only element of serious reality in these negotiations\". The Central Powers simultaneously negotiated with a delegation representing an independent Ukraine. In late January 1918, Trotsky returned to Petrograd to consult about the Ukrainian problem. When he returned, a peace with the Ukrainians had been signed. On 10 February, Trotsky announced that Russia would consider the war at an end but would not sign the proposed treaty. Eight days, later the Eastern Army resumed its offensive and swept over the remainder of the Baltic provinces without opposition. After two days, the Russians caved in, and the treaty was signed on 3 March 1918.\nGerman troops marched into Ukraine to prop up the beleaguered independent government and also went further east into the Don basin to obtain the coal to ship the grain that they had seized.\nHoffmann anticipated that the Crimea would become the German Riviera. The Supreme Commanders set up new administrations for Ukraine and the Baltic States and strikingly diminished Prince Leopold's and Hoffmann's territorial sway since they were left with only \"Ober Ost\". Hoffmann argued unsuccessfully that to counter the Bolsheviks, they should denounce the treaty and forcibly establish a new government in Russia.\nLater life.\nIn 1919, he was given command of a brigade along the Polish border. The leader of the new small German Army was Hans von Seeckt, who had quarreled with Hoffmann during the war. Hoffmann was retired in March 1920 and settled back in Berlin, where he reconciled with Hindenburg at a personal meeting. He and the industrialist Arnold Rechberg campaigned persistently trying to persuade the western powers to join to overthrow the Soviet Union. He published his wartime memoirs and evaluations, his views on Russia, and his version of Tannenberg. A few years after the war, when touring the field at Tannenberg, Hoffmann told a group of army cadets, \"See\u2014this is where Hindenburg slept before the battle, this is where Hindenburg slept after the battle, and between you and me this is where Hindenburg slept during the battle\".\nHoffmann died at the spa at on 8 July 1927. He was rated by some historians \"as perhaps the most brilliant staff officer of his generation\" and was used as a model at the United States Army Command and General Staff College.\""}
{"id": "732729", "revid": "51197107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732729", "title": "Conjunction fallacy", "text": "A conjunction effect or Linda problem is a bias or mistake in reasoning where adding extra details (an \"and\" statement or logical conjunction; mathematical shorthand: formula_1) to a sentence makes it appear more likely. Logically, this is not possible, because adding more claims can make a true statement false, but cannot make false statements true: If \"A\" is true, then \"formula_2\" might be false (if \"B\" is false). However, if \"A\" is false, then \"formula_2\" will always be false, regardless of what \"B\" is. Therefore, \"formula_2\" cannot be more likely than \"A\".\nDefinition and basic example.\nThe most often-cited example of this fallacy originated with Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman:\n\"Linda is 31 years old, single, outspoken, and very bright. She majored in philosophy. As a student, she was deeply concerned with issues of discrimination and social justice, and also participated in anti-nuclear demonstrations.\"\nWhich is more probable?\nThe majority of those asked chose option 2. However, this is logically impossible: if Linda is a bank teller active in the feminist movement, then she is a bank teller. Therefore, it is impossible for 2 to be true while 1 is false, so the probabilities are at most equal.\nMore generally, the probability of two events occurring together (that is, in conjunction) is always less than or equal to the probability of either one occurring itself. For two events \"A\" and \"B\" this inequality can be written as formula_5.\nFor example, even choosing a very low probability of Linda's being a bank teller, say Pr(Linda is a bank teller) = 0.05 and a high probability that she would be a feminist, say Pr(Linda is a feminist) = 0.95, then, assuming these two facts are independent of each other, Pr(Linda is a bank teller \"and\" Linda is a feminist)\u00a0= 0.05\u00a0\u00d7\u00a00.95 or\u00a00.0475, lower than Pr(Linda is a bank teller).\nTversky and Kahneman argue that most people get this problem wrong because they use a heuristic (an easily calculated) procedure called representativeness to make this kind of judgment: Option 2 seems more \"representative\" of Linda from the description of her, even though it is clearly mathematically less likely.\nIn other demonstrations, they argued that a specific scenario seemed more likely because of representativeness, but each added detail would actually make the scenario less and less likely. In this way it could be similar to the misleading vividness fallacy. More recently, Kahneman has argued that the conjunction fallacy is a type of extension neglect.\nJoint versus separate evaluation.\nIn some experimental demonstrations, the conjoint option is evaluated separately from its basic option. In other words, one group of participants is asked to rank-order the likelihood that Linda is a bank teller, a high school teacher, and several other options, and another group is asked to rank-order whether Linda is a bank teller and active in the feminist movement versus the same set of options (without \"Linda is a bank teller\" as an option). In this type of demonstration, different groups of subjects still rank-order Linda as a bank teller and active in the feminist movement more highly than Linda as a bank teller.\nSeparate evaluation experiments preceded the earliest joint evaluation experiments, and Kahneman and Tversky were surprised when the effect was observed even under joint evaluation.\nOther examples.\nWhile the Linda problem is the best-known example, researchers have developed dozens of problems that reliably elicit the conjunction fallacy. \nTversky &amp; Kahneman (1981).\nThe original report by Tversky &amp; Kahneman (later republished as a book chapter) described four problems that elicited the conjunction fallacy, including the Linda problem. There was also a similar problem about a man named Bill (a good fit for the stereotype of an accountant \u2014 \"intelligent, but unimaginative, compulsive, and generally lifeless\" \u2014 but not a good fit for the stereotype of a jazz player), and two problems where participants were asked to make predictions for events that could occur in 1981.\nPolicy experts were asked to rate the probability that the Soviet Union would invade Poland, and the United States would break off diplomatic relations, all in the following year. They rated it on average as having a 4% probability of occurring. Another group of experts was asked to rate the probability simply that the United States would break off relations with the Soviet Union in the following year. They gave it an average probability of only 1%.\nIn an experiment conducted in 1980, respondents were asked the following:\nSuppose Bj\u00f6rn Borg reaches the Wimbledon finals in 1981. Please rank order the following outcomes from most to least likely.\nOn average, participants rated \"Borg will lose the first set but win the match\" more likely than \"Borg will lose the first set\". However, winning the match is only one of several potential eventual outcomes after having lost the first set. The first and the second outcome are thus more likely (as they only contain one condition) than the third and fourth outcome (which depend on two conditions).\nTversky &amp; Kahneman (1983).\nTversky and Kahneman followed up their original findings with a 1983 paper that looked at dozens of new problems, most of these with multiple variations. The following are a couple of examples.\nConsider a regular six-sided die with four green faces and two red faces. The die will be rolled 20 times and the sequence of greens (G) and reds (R) will be recorded. You are asked to select one sequence, from a set of three, and you will win $25 if the sequence you choose appears on successive rolls of the die.\n65% of participants chose the second sequence, though option 1 is contained within it and is shorter than the other options. In a version where the $25 bet was only hypothetical the results did not significantly differ. Tversky and Kahneman argued that sequence 2 appears \"representative\" of a chance sequence (compare to the \"clustering illusion\").\nA health survey was conducted in a representative sample of adult males in British Columbia of all ages and occupations.\nMr. F. was included in the sample. He was selected by chance from the list of participants.\nWhich of the following statements is more probable? (check one)\nThe probability of the conjunctions is never greater than that of its conjuncts. Therefore, the first choice is more probable.\nCriticism.\nCritics such as Gerd Gigerenzer and Ralph Hertwig criticized the Linda problem on grounds such as the wording and framing. The question of the Linda problem may violate conversational maxims in that people assume that the question obeys the maxim of relevance. Gigerenzer argues that some of the terminology used have polysemous meanings, the alternatives of which he claimed were more \"natural\". He argues that one meaning of \"probable\" (\"what happens frequently\") corresponds to the mathematical probability people are supposed to be tested on, but other meanings (\"what is plausible\" and \"whether there is evidence\") do not. The term \"and\" has even been argued to have relevant polysemous meanings. Many techniques have been developed to control for this possible misinterpretation, but none of them has dissipated the effect.\nMany variations in wording of the Linda problem were studied by Tversky and Kahneman. If the first option is changed to obey conversational relevance, i.e., \"Linda is a bank teller whether or not she is active in the feminist movement\" the effect is decreased, but the majority (57%) of the respondents still commit the conjunction error. If the probability is changed to frequency format (\"see debiasing section below\") the effect is reduced or eliminated. However, studies exist in which indistinguishable conjunction fallacy rates have been observed with stimuli framed in terms of probabilities versus frequencies.\nThe wording criticisms may be less applicable to the conjunction effect in separate evaluation. The \"Linda problem\" has been studied and criticized more than other types of demonstration of the effect (some described below).\nIn an incentivized experimental study, it has been shown that the conjunction fallacy decreased in those with greater cognitive ability, though it did not disappear. It has also been shown that the conjunction fallacy becomes less prevalent when subjects are allowed to consult with other subjects.\nStill, the conjunction fallacy occurs even when people are asked to make bets with real money, and when they solve intuitive physics problems of various designs.\nDebiasing.\nDrawing attention to set relationships, using frequencies instead of probabilities, or thinking diagrammatically are all methods that sharply reduce the error in some forms of the conjunction fallacy.\nIn one experiment the question of the Linda problem was reformulated as follows:\nThere are 100 persons who fit the description above (that is, Linda's). How many of them are:\nWhereas previously 85% of participants gave the wrong answer (bank teller and active in the feminist movement), in experiments done with this questioning the proportion of incorrect answers is dramatically reduced (to ~20%). Participants were forced to use a mathematical approach and thus recognized the difference more easily.\nHowever, in some tasks only based on frequencies, not on stories, that used clear logical formulations, conjunction fallacies continued to occur dominantly, with only few exceptions, when the observed pattern of frequencies resembled a conjunction."}
{"id": "732741", "revid": "17287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732741", "title": "Cash for questions scandal", "text": ""}
{"id": "732742", "revid": "36942950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732742", "title": "Mutoid Waste Company", "text": "The Mutoid Waste Company are a performance arts group founded in London, England by Joe Rush and Robin Cooke in collaboration with Alan P Scott and Joshua Bowler. It started in the early 1980s, emerging from Frestonia's 'Car Breaker Gallery'. They are probably best known for their recycled art installations at Glastonbury Festival and refer to themselves as \"the Mutoids\".\nInfluenced by the film \"Mad Max\" and the popular \"Judge Dredd\" comics, they specialised in organising illegal free parties in London throughout the 1980s, driven at first by eclectic assortments of fringe music such as psychedelic rock and dub reggae, but then embracing the burgeoning acid house music movement by the late 1980s.\nHistory.\nDescribed as \"part street theatre, part art show and part traveling circus\" in the 1986 LWT documentary \"South of Watford\"., the group became famous for building giant welded sculptures from waste materials and for customising broken down cars, as well as making large scale murals in the disused buildings where they held their parties.\nIn 1989, after a number of police raids on their warehouse in King's Cross, they left the country and travelled to Berlin, Germany where they became notorious for building giant sculptures out of old machinery and car parts, one of which was 'K\u00e4ferman', a giant human figure with a Volkswagen Beetle for its chest, offering a Bird Of Peace sculpture that overlooked the Berlin Wall towards East Berlin and the regime of East Germany. They had a collection of scrap military vehicles, including a Russian MiG 21 fighter aircraft which 'followed' them around wherever they went, and a painted tank known as \"the Pink Panzer\".\nLady Emma Herbert, daughter of Henry Herbert, 17th Earl of Pembroke, met the Mutoids at about this time. They taught her acrobatic skills and she toured Europe with them, which was the beginning of her career as a circus trapeze artist.\nIn 1991, the Mutoids travelled to Santarcangelo di Romagna, Italy where they set up a scrap village called Mutonia and continued working, displaying and performing at squats and libertarian celebrations in the Emilia-Romagna region. A community still exists.\nIn 2009, the Mutoids held an exhibition \"Mutate Britain\" at their yard under the Westway in West London.\nIn recent years, the Mutoids have appeared at a number of British festivals and arts events, with displays of their distinctive vehicle sculptures, and they were a key part of the closing ceremony for the 2012 Summer Paralympics.\nThe Mutoids were also recently celebrated in a BBC Four documentary \"I Am A Mutoid: A Glastonbury Hero\" in June 2021."}
{"id": "732744", "revid": "316471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732744", "title": "Club 33", "text": "Club 33 is the name of a number of private dining clubs located within Disney Parks. The first opened inside Disneyland in 1967, and was modeled after sponsor lounges at the 1964 New York World's Fair. At the time it opened, Club 33 was the only location within Disneyland that offered alcoholic beverages.\nSince then, additional Club 33 locations opened at Tokyo Disneyland, at Shanghai Disneyland, and at all four theme parks at Walt Disney World Resort. Club 33 members in California also have access to the 1901 lounge inside the Carthay Circle Restaurant at California Adventure.\nDisneyland location.\nClub 33 is located above \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" and adjacent to one of Walt Disney's in-park apartments. The entrance was formerly located to the right of the Blue Bayou Restaurant at \"33 Royal Street,\" adorned with an ornate address plate.\nDuring an extensive renovation, the Club doubled in size and the entrance was relocated to the Court of Angels. Andrew Sutton, the executive chef at the Carthay Circle and Napa Rose restaurants at the Disneyland Resort, was placed in charge of the Club's kitchen. It reopened in July 2014.\nHistory.\nWhen Walt Disney was working with various corporate promoters such as Dylan Connolly at his attractions at the 1964\u20131965 New York World's Fair, he noted various \"VIP Lounges\" which provided the idea for Club 33. According to Disney, Club 33 is simply named after its address at 33 Royal Street in New Orleans Square at Disneyland.\nOriginally, Walt Disney hosted VIPs in a lounge inside the Red Wagon Inn at Disneyland. The number of VIPs grew to be too large for the lounge. Dorothea Redmond painted renderings and Hollywood set director Emile Kuri decorated the new VIP lounge in New Orleans Square. While Club 33 was originally intended to host Disneyland's corporate sponsors, individual memberships were also offered when it was opened.\nThe entrance was designed to be unassuming to most guests, painted in Go Away Green. Since 2014, the entrance was moved about 40 feet away. The new entrance opens to a vestibule for checking in with a host that opens to the Court of Angels. Guests can take an Art Nouveau themed elevator or winding staircase to the second level.\nAt the landing, there are two dining rooms, Le Grand Salon and Le Salon Nouveau. Walls are adorned with butterflies pinned under glass and decorated with hand-painted animation cels from Disney Animation's 1940 film \"Fantasia\".\nA hallway leads to Le Salon Nouveau, a member-exclusive dining room. The main dining room, Le Grand Salon, is more formal, based on New Orleans-style designs by Imagineer Kim Irvine. Prior to 2014 remodel, the style was Napoleon-era First Empire. This dining room now features \"a la carte\" service for lunch, which formerly offered a buffet.\nThe Club is also furnished with an ornate walnut table with white marble top was used in Disney's 1964 film \"Mary Poppins\", a harpsichord in the main lobby with a Renaissance-style painting under the lid, and an antique telephone booth similar to one from Disney's 1967 film \"The Happiest Millionaire\".\nWalt Disney wanted to make use of Audio-Animatronic technology within Club 33. One partially-implemented concept would allow an operator to respond to guest conversation through an animatronic character. Some remnants of this system remain, including an animatronic vulture perched atop a grandfather clock and microphones embedded in lighting fixtures in the former Trophy Room.\nMembership.\nThe initial cost of membership at Disneyland and Walt Disney World was previously reported to be $65,000, followed by an annual due of $20,625. The current reported cost of membership as of 2025 includes a $65,000 initiation fee, varying between individuals and corporations, and $20,625 annually for individuals, more for corporations.\nClub 33 in other Disney parks.\nClub 33 at Tokyo Disneyland began operations in 1983. It is located on Center Street in World Bazaar.\nClub 33 at Shanghai Disneyland opened along with the park in the summer of 2016. Like the Tokyo location, it is located in the park's entrance area, Mickey Avenue.\nFour separate Club 33 locations opened at Walt Disney World, each with their own name. Though the locations were set to open in Fall 2017, the \"Spotlight Lounge\" opened in March 2018 at Hollywood Studios, followed by \"Constellation Club\" at Epcot, \"Captain's Quarters\" at Magic Kingdom, and \"Harambe House\" at Animal Kingdom.\nIn other media.\nA film about the Club 33 was announced in January 2025; with Dan Hernandez and Benji Samit as writers of the film."}
{"id": "732746", "revid": "36087022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732746", "title": "Conductive polymer", "text": "Conductive polymers or, more precisely, intrinsically conducting polymers (ICPs) are organic polymers that conduct electricity. Such compounds may have metallic conductivity or can be semiconductors. The main advantage of conductive polymers is that they are easy to process, mainly by dispersion. Conductive polymers are generally not thermoplastics, \"i.e.\", they are not thermoformable. But, like insulating polymers, they are organic materials. They can offer high electrical conductivity but do not show similar mechanical properties to other commercially available polymers. The electrical properties can be fine-tuned using the methods of organic synthesis and by advanced dispersion techniques.\nHistory.\nPolyaniline was first described in the mid-19th century by Henry Letheby, who investigated the electrochemical and chemical oxidation products of aniline in acidic media. He noted that the reduced form was colourless but the oxidized forms were deep blue.\nThe first highly-conductive organic compounds were the charge transfer complexes. In the 1950s, researchers reported that polycyclic aromatic compounds formed semi-conducting charge-transfer complex salts with halogens. In 1954, researchers at Bell Labs and elsewhere reported organic charge transfer complexes with resistivities as low as 8 \u03a9-cm. In the early 1970s, researchers demonstrated salts of tetrathiafulvalene show almost metallic conductivity, while superconductivity was demonstrated in 1980. Broad research on salts of charge transfer complexes continues today. While these compounds were technically not polymers, this indicated that organic compounds can carry current. While organic conductors were previously intermittently discussed, the field was particularly energized by the prediction of superconductivity following the discovery of BCS theory.\nIn 1963 Australians B.A. Bolto, D.E. Weiss, and coworkers reported derivatives of polypyrrole with resistivities as low as 1 \u03a9.cm. There have been multiple reports of similar high-conductivity oxidized polyacetylenes. With the notable exception of charge transfer complexes (some of which are even superconductors), organic molecules were previously considered insulators or at best weakly conducting semiconductors. Subsequently, DeSurville and coworkers reported high conductivity in a polyaniline. Likewise, in 1980, Diaz and Logan reported films of polyaniline that can serve as electrodes.\nWhile mostly operating at the scale of less than 100 nanometers, \"molecular\" electronic processes can collectively manifest on a macro scale. Examples include quantum tunneling, negative resistance, phonon-assisted hopping and polarons. In 1977, Alan J. Heeger, Alan MacDiarmid and Hideki Shirakawa reported similar high conductivity in oxidized iodine-doped polyacetylene. For this research, they were awarded the 2000 Nobel Prize in Chemistry \"for the discovery and development of conductive polymers.\" Polyacetylene itself did not find practical applications, but drew the attention of scientists and encouraged the rapid growth of the field. Since the late 1980s, organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) have emerged as an important application of conducting polymers.\nTypes.\nLinear-backbone \"polymer blacks\" (polyacetylene, polypyrrole, polyindole and polyaniline) and their copolymers are the main class of conductive polymers. Poly(p-phenylene vinylene) (PPV) and its soluble derivatives have emerged as the prototypical electroluminescent semiconducting polymers. Today, poly(3-alkylthiophenes) are the archetypical materials for solar cells and transistors.\nThe following table presents some organic conductive polymers according to their composition. The well-studied classes are written in bold and the less well studied ones are \"in italic\".\nSynthesis.\nConductive polymers are prepared by many methods. Most conductive polymers are prepared by oxidative coupling of monocyclic precursors. Such reactions entail dehydrogenation:\nThe low solubility of most polymers presents challenges. Some researchers add solubilizing functional groups to some or all monomers to increase solubility. Others address this through the formation of nanostructures and surfactant-stabilized conducting polymer dispersions in water. These include polyaniline nanofibers and PEDOT:PSS. In many cases, the molecular weights of conductive polymers are lower than conventional polymers such as polyethylene. However, in some cases, the molecular weight need not be high to achieve the desired properties.\nThere are two main methods used to synthesize conductive polymers, chemical synthesis and electro (co)polymerization. The chemical synthesis means connecting carbon-carbon bond of monomers by placing the simple monomers under various condition, such as heating, pressing, light exposure and catalyst. The advantage is high yield. However, there are many plausible impurities in the end product. The electro (co)polymerization means inserting three electrodes (reference electrode, counter electrode and working electrode) into solution including reactors or monomers. By applying voltage to electrodes, redox reaction to synthesize polymer is promoted. Electro (co)polymerization can also be divided into Cyclic voltammetry and Potentiostatic method by applying cyclic voltage and constant voltage, respectively. The advantage of Electro (co)polymerization are the high purity of products. But the method can only synthesize a few products at a time.\nMolecular basis of electrical conductivity.\nThe conductivity of such polymers is the result of several processes. For example, in traditional polymers such as polyethylenes, the valence electrons are bound in sp3 hybridized covalent bonds. Such \"sigma-bonding electrons\" have low mobility and do not contribute to the electrical conductivity of the material. However, in conjugated materials, the situation is completely different. Conducting polymers have backbones of contiguous sp2 hybridized carbon centers. One valence electron on each center resides in a pz orbital, which is orthogonal to the other three sigma-bonds. All the pz orbitals combine with each other to a molecule wide delocalized set of orbitals. The electrons in these delocalized orbitals have high mobility when the material is \"doped\" by oxidation, which removes some of these delocalized electrons. Thus, the conjugated p-orbitals form a one-dimensional electronic band, and the electrons within this band become mobile when it is partially emptied. The band structures of conductive polymers can easily be calculated with a tight binding model. In principle, these same materials can be doped by reduction, which adds electrons to an otherwise unfilled band. In practice, most organic conductors are doped oxidatively to give p-type materials. The redox doping of organic conductors is analogous to the doping of silicon semiconductors, whereby a small fraction of silicon atoms are replaced by electron-rich, \"e.g.\", phosphorus, or electron-poor, \"e.g.\", boron, atoms to create n-type and p-type semiconductors, respectively.\nAlthough typically \"doping\" conductive polymers involves oxidizing or reducing the material, conductive organic polymers associated with a protic solvent may also be \"self-doped.\"\nUndoped conjugated polymers are semiconductors or insulators. In such compounds, the energy gap can be &gt; 2 eV, which is too great for thermally activated conduction. Therefore, undoped conjugated polymers, such as polythiophenes, polyacetylenes only have a low electrical conductivity of around 10\u221210 to 10\u22128 S/cm. Even at a very low level of doping (&lt; 1%), electrical conductivity increases several orders of magnitude up to values of around 0.1 S/cm. Subsequent doping of the conducting polymers will result in a saturation of the conductivity at values around 0.1\u201310 kS/cm (10\u20131000 S/m) for different polymers. Highest values reported up to now are for the conductivity of stretch oriented polyacetylene with confirmed values of about 80 kS/cm (8 MS/m). Although the pi-electrons in polyacetylene are delocalized along the chain, pristine polyacetylene is not a metal. Polyacetylene has alternating single and double bonds which have lengths of 1.44 and 1.36 \u00c5, respectively. Upon doping, the bond alteration is diminished in conductivity increases. Non-doping increases in conductivity can also be accomplished in a field effect transistor (organic FET or OFET) and by irradiation. Some materials also exhibit negative differential resistance and voltage-controlled \"switching\" analogous to that seen in inorganic amorphous semiconductors.\nDespite intensive research, the relationship between morphology, chain structure and conductivity is still poorly understood. Generally, it is assumed that conductivity should be higher for the higher degree of crystallinity and better alignment of the chains, however this could not be confirmed for polyaniline and was only recently confirmed for PEDOT, which are largely amorphous.\nProperties and applications.\nConductive polymers show promise in antistatic materials and they have been incorporated into commercial displays and batteries. Literature suggests they are also promising in organic solar cells, printed electronic circuits, organic light-emitting diodes, actuators, electrochromism, supercapacitors, chemical sensors, chemical sensor arrays, and biosensors, flexible transparent displays, electromagnetic shielding and possibly replacement for the popular transparent conductor indium tin oxide. Another use is for microwave-absorbent coatings, particularly radar-absorptive coatings on stealth aircraft. Conducting polymers are rapidly gaining attraction in new applications with increasingly processable materials with better electrical and physical properties and lower costs. The new nano-structured forms of conducting polymers particularly, augment this field with their higher surface area and better dispersability. Research reports showed that nanostructured conducting polymers in the form of nanofibers and nanosponges exhibit significantly improved capacitance values as compared to their non-nanostructured counterparts.\nWith the availability of stable and reproducible dispersions, PEDOT and polyaniline have gained some large-scale applications. While PEDOT (poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene)) is mainly used in antistatic applications and as a transparent conductive layer in form of PEDOT:PSS dispersions (PSS=polystyrene sulfonic acid), polyaniline is widely used for printed circuit board manufacturing \u2013 in the final finish, for protecting copper from corrosion and preventing its solderability. Moreover, polyindole is also starting to gain attention for various applications due to its high redox activity, thermal stability, and slow degradation properties than competitors polyaniline and polypyrrole.\nElectroluminescence.\nElectroluminescence is light emission stimulated by electric current. In organic compounds, electroluminescence has been known since the early 1950s, when Bernanose and coworkers first produced electroluminescence in crystalline thin films of acridine orange and quinacrine. In 1960, researchers at Dow Chemical developed AC-driven electroluminescent cells using doping. In some cases, similar light emission is observed when a voltage is applied to a thin layer of a conductive organic polymer film. While electroluminescence was originally mostly of academic interest, the increased conductivity of modern conductive polymers means enough power can be put through the device at low voltages to generate practical amounts of light. This property has led to the development of flat panel displays using organic LEDs, solar panels, and optical amplifiers.\nBarriers to applications.\nSince most conductive polymers require oxidative doping, the properties of the resulting state are crucial. Such materials are salt-like (polymer salt), which makes them less soluble in organic solvents and water and hence harder to process. Furthermore, the charged organic backbone is often unstable towards atmospheric moisture. Improving processability for many polymers requires the introduction of solubilizing substituents, which can further complicate the synthesis.\nExperimental and theoretical thermodynamical evidence suggests that conductive polymers may even be completely and principally insoluble so that they can only be processed by dispersion.\nTrends.\nMost recent emphasis is on organic light emitting diodes and organic polymer solar cells. The Organic Electronics Association is an international platform to promote applications of organic semiconductors. Conductive polymer products with embedded and improved electromagnetic interference (EMI) and electrostatic discharge (ESD) protection have led to both prototypes and products. For example, Polymer Electronics Research Center at University of Auckland is developing a range of novel DNA sensor technologies based on conducting polymers, photoluminescent polymers and inorganic nanocrystals (quantum dots) for simple, rapid and sensitive gene detection. Typical conductive polymers must be \"doped\" to produce high conductivity. As of 2001, there remains to be discovered an organic polymer that is \"intrinsically\" electrically conducting. Recently (as of 2020), researchers from IMDEA Nanoscience Institute reported experimental demonstration of the rational engineering of 1D polymers that are located near the quantum phase transition from the topologically trivial to non-trivial class, thus featuring a narrow bandgap."}
{"id": "732747", "revid": "438626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732747", "title": "The Dominator", "text": ""}
{"id": "732748", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732748", "title": "Electrical insulators", "text": ""}
{"id": "732751", "revid": "81280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732751", "title": "Cathedral of the Archangel Michael", "text": ""}
{"id": "732763", "revid": "47988270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732763", "title": "Lump of labour fallacy", "text": "In economics, the lump of labour fallacy is the misconception that there is a finite amount of work\u2014a lump of labour\u2014to be done within an economy which can be distributed to create more or fewer jobs. It is also known as the lump of jobs fallacy, fallacy of labour scarcity, fixed pie fallacy, and the zero-sum fallacy\u2014due to its ties to zero-sum games. The term \"fixed pie fallacy\" is also used more generally to refer to the idea that there is a fixed amount of wealth in the world. This and other zero-sum fallacies can be caused by zero-sum bias.\nIt was considered a fallacy in 1891 by economist David Frederick Schloss, who held that the amount of work is not fixed. The term originated to rebut the idea that reducing the number of hours employees are allowed to labour during the working day would lead to a reduction in unemployment. The term is also commonly used to describe the false belief that increasing labour productivity, automation, immigration, or women's participation in the workforce causes an increase in unemployment. The facts show that just like the amount of labor is not fixed, neither is the size of the economy (fixed pie fallacy) and as more work is done, the economy grows.\nAutomation/technological change.\nWhile many workers fear that automation or artificial intelligence will take their jobs, history has shown that when jobs in some sectors disappear, jobs in new sectors are created. One example is the United States, where a century of increasing productivity and technological improvements changed the percentage of Americans employed in the production of food from 41% of the workforce in 1900 to 2% in 2000. This change did not result in large-scale unemployment, because workers found jobs in newly created industries (like farm equipment manufacturing). Another way to state this is that automation or technological improvements free workers to move to new growing industries.\nImmigration and women in the workforce.\nWhile many people worry that new immigrants to their country will reduce employment (the same way US men in the 1960s worried that women's entry into the workforce would lead to massive unemployment) the data show that this did not happen because new workers earn money which they spend with the result being that the total economy grows and more people are employed.\nEarly retirement.\nEarly retirement has been used to induce workers to accept termination of employment before retirement age following the employer's diminished labour needs.\nIn an editorial in \"The Economist\" a thought experiment is proposed in which old people leave the workforce in favour of young people, on whom they become dependent for their living through state benefits. It is then argued that since growth depends on having either more workers or greater productivity, the society cannot really become more prosperous by paying an increasing number of its citizens unproductively. The article also points out that even early retirees with private pension funds become a burden on society as they also depend on equity and bond income generated by workers.\nCriticism.\nThere have been critiques of the idea that the concept is a fallacy. Arguments include that Schloss' concept is misapplied to working hours and that he was originally critiquing workers intentionally restricting their output, and that John Maynard Keynes believed shorter working hours could alleviate unemployment."}
{"id": "732768", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732768", "title": "HP48G", "text": ""}
{"id": "732770", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732770", "title": "HP48", "text": ""}
{"id": "732771", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732771", "title": "USS Vincennes (CL-64)", "text": "USS \"Vincennes\" was a light cruiser of the United States Navy, which were built during World War II. The class was designed as a development of the earlier s, the size of which had been limited by the First London Naval Treaty. The start of the war led to the dissolution of the treaty system, but the dramatic need for new vessels precluded a new design, so the \"Cleveland\"s used the same hull as their predecessors, but were significantly heavier. The \"Cleveland\"s carried a main battery of twelve guns in four three-gun turrets, along with a secondary armament of twelve dual-purpose guns. They had a top speed of .\nDesign.\nThe \"Cleveland\"-class light cruisers traced their origin to design work done in the late 1930s; at the time, light cruiser displacement was limited to by the Second London Naval Treaty. Following the start of World War II in September 1939, Britain announced it would suspend the treaty for the duration of the conflict, a decision the US Navy quickly followed. Though still neutral, the United States recognized that war was likely and the urgent need for additional ships ruled out an entirely new design, so the \"Cleveland\"s were a close development of the earlier s, the chief difference being the substitution of a two-gun dual-purpose gun mount for one of the main battery gun turrets.\n\"Vincennes\" was long overall and had a beam of and a draft of . Her standard displacement amounted to and increased to at full load. The ship was powered by four General Electric steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by four oil-fired Babcock &amp; Wilcox boilers. Rated at , the turbines were intended to give a top speed of . Her crew numbered 1285\u00a0officers and enlisted men.\nThe ship was armed with a main battery of twelve 6 in /47-caliber Mark 16 guns in four 3-gun turrets on the centerline. Two were placed forward in a superfiring pair; the other two turrets were placed aft of the superstructure in another superfiring pair. The secondary battery consisted of twelve /38-caliber dual-purpose guns mounted in twin turrets. Two of these were placed on the centerline, one directly behind the forward main turrets and the other just forward of the aft turrets. Two more were placed abreast of the conning tower and the other pair on either side of the aft superstructure. Anti-aircraft defense consisted of twenty-four Bofors guns in four quadruple and four double mounts and twenty-one Oerlikon guns in single mounts.\nThe ship's belt armor ranged in thickness from , with the thicker section amidships where it protected the ammunition magazines and propulsion machinery spaces. Her deck armor was thick. The main battery turrets were protected with faces and sides and tops, and they were supported by barbettes 6\u00a0inches thick. \"Vincennes\"s conning tower had 5-inch sides.\nConstruction and commissioning.\nShe was originally laid down as \"Flint\" (CL-64) on 7 March 1942 at Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation's Fore River Shipyard in Quincy, Massachusetts. While the ship was under construction, however, the Battle of Savo Island occurred in August 1942, during which engagement the heavy cruiser \"Vincennes\" (CA-44) had been sunk. In order to perpetuate the name, \"Flint\" was renamed \"Vincennes\" on 16 October 1942. Launched on 17 July 1943, \"Vincennes\" was sponsored by Mrs. Arthur A. Osborn, the former Miss Harriet V. Kimmell, who had sponsored the first cruiser of the name.\nCommissioned on 21 January 1944, Capt. Arthur D. Brown in command, \"Vincennes\" fitted-out at her builders' yard into late February, undergoing her sea trials soon thereafter. From 25 February to the last day of March, \"Vincennes\" sailed to the British West Indies and back on her shakedown cruise. With brief stopovers in the Chesapeake Bay region, the new light cruiser \"shook down\" principally in the Gulf of Paria, near Trinidad.\nService.\nPost-shakedown and training.\nAfter post-shakedown repairs and alterations, \"Vincennes\" became the flagship for Commander, Cruiser Division (CruDiv) 14, Rear Admiral Wilder D. Baker, who embarked in the light cruiser on 14 April with members of his staff. Other ships in the division included and \u2013 the latter perpetuating, like \"Vincennes\", the name of a man-of-war lost earlier in action with Japanese surface units.\nDeparting Boston on 16 April, \"Vincennes\" subsequently transited the Panama Canal and ultimately reached Pearl Harbor, Territory of Hawaii, on 6 May. For the next week, the ship engaged in intensive training in the Hawaiian operating area. During one of the ship's in-port periods that interspersed the at-sea training evolutions, Admiral Chester W. Nimitz came on board \"Vincennes\" and presented her embarked flag officer with a Navy Cross \u2013 won for directing bombardment operations in the Aleutians.\nWith the shakedown and training phases of her career behind her, the sleek light cruiser put to sea on 24 May and left Pearl Harbor in her wake. After conducting exercises \"en route\", \"Vincennes\" reached Majuro, in the Marshall Islands, six days later. A week later, she left Majuro as part of the mighty armada known as Task Force 58 (TF\u00a058). At the helm of that powerful striking force, based around the fast carriers of the Fleet, was Vice Admiral Marc A. Mitscher.\nMariana Islands, 1944.\nSubsequently, \"Vincennes\" made her initial contact with the enemy. During the first strikes on the Bonins, Japanese aircraft in retaliatory raids went after the TF\u00a058 flattops. \"Vincennes\", in the screen, downed a Mitsubishi G4M \"Betty\" bomber on 10 June. Her guns had drawn their first blood of the war. It would not be the last time.\nIn the days that ensued, \"Vincennes\" supported the carriers as they launched aircraft to smash Japanese positions on Saipan and Pagan Islands on 12\u201313 June. On the 16th, she was part of the group that conducted the first air strikes on Iwo Jima \u2013 an isle later to be remembered by many sailors and marines. During the key Battle of the Philippine Sea, \"Vincennes\" gunners performed their tasks well, aiding materially in the barrage of gunfire that broke up several of the enemy's nevertheless persistent attacks.\nOn 23 June, Rear Admiral Baker shifted his flag to \"Vincennes\" sister ship \"Miami\", releasing the erstwhile flagship to proceed to Eniwetok, in the Marshalls, for needed engineering repairs. Dropping anchor at Eniwetok on the 27th, \"Vincennes\" completed her repairs by the end of the month; she subsequently sailed to rejoin CruDiv\u00a014, and Rear Admiral Baker brought his flag to the ship again on 7 July.\nDeparting Eniwetok on 14 July, \"Vincennes\" operated with TF\u00a058 in the vicinity of Guam while the planes from the fast carriers conducted strikes on Japanese positions there from 18 to 21 July. She took part in further fast carrier task group strikes on Tinian, Rota, and Guam, through the 27th of the month. After continuing her support evolutions with the fast flattops, \"Vincennes\" headed for the Marianas, dropping her hook at Saipan on the last day of July.\nDeparting Saipan on 1 August, \"Vincennes\" resumed her operations with the carriers, making a high-speed run to the Bonins where planes from the carriers carried out air strikes on the 4th and 5th before retiring. The cruiser subsequently put into Eniwetok to replenish, anchoring there on the 11th, where Rear Admiral Francis E. M. Whiting relieved Admiral Baker eight days later, breaking his flag at \"Vincennes' \" main on that day.\nAssigned next to TF\u00a034, \"Vincennes\" departed Eniwetok at the end of August and conducted tactical and gunnery exercises until joining TG\u00a038.2 on 3 September. Early that month, the task group conducted strikes on Japanese positions in the Palau Islands on 6 September. The next day, 7 September, \"Vincennes\", as part of Task Unit 38.2.5 (TU\u00a038.2.5), under Rear Admiral Whiting, embarked on board, conducted the first shore bombardment on Japanese installations on the southernmost Palau cluster of Peleliu, Ngesebus and Angaur islands, the ship's captain subsequently recording that the coverage of the areas shelled was \"excellent\".\nPhilippines, 1944.\nThe operations against the Palaus, however, turned out to be only a curtain-raiser for the show to come \u2013 the recapture of the Philippines. \"Vincennes\" left the Palau group astern on 8 September for the southern Philippines. American carrier planes hit targets on the island of Mindanao on 9\u201310 September; the cruiser then screened the fast carriers as they conducted air strikes in the central Philippine Archipelago, hitting Negros, Leyte, Cebu, and the Bohol Islands from 12 to 14 September. \"Vincennes\" then proceeded to the operating areas off Luzon where carrier air strikes were launched against Japanese sites ashore on 21\u201322 September. The slate of air operations resumed again within a few days, \"Vincennes\" screening the flattops as their planes struck Leyte, Cebu, and Negros.\n\"Vincennes\" left the operating areas soon thereafter, however, to replenish in the Carolines, reaching Ulithi on 1 October. Her stay in port was interrupted, however, by the presence of a typhoon in the vicinity. The light cruiser sortied for typhoon-evasion purposes on the 3rd, returning to port two days later. Resuming and completing the replenishment chores at Ulithi, \"Vincennes\" subsequently weighed anchor on 6 October with TF\u00a038.\n\"Vincennes\" operated off Okinawa in the ensuing days, reaching the waters off that isle on 10 October. Planes from the carriers in the task groups conducted the first air strikes in that area while the ships in the screen stood poised for retaliation from shore. Many enemy planes closed the carriers and their escorting battleships, cruisers, destroyers, and destroyer escorts \u2013 most to no avail. Friendly fighters on combat air patrol (CAP) duties overhead proved invaluable, knocking down many enemy aircraft that ventured too close. Included in the bag were a \"Betty\" and a Yokosuka P1Y \"Frances\". The enemy knew no set time to attack \u2013 \"Vincennes\" observed a \"Betty\" being shot down within sight of the ship during the task force's fueling-at-sea evolutions the next day.\nFormosa, 1944.\n\"Vincennes\" and her sisters next shaped course for Formosa, as the fast carriers shifted their operating area to prepare the way for the upcoming onslaught against the Japanese-occupied Philippine Islands. \"En route\" to Formosa, Japanese planes frequently showed themselves, but maddeningly stayed out of range \u2013 persistent and pugnacious snoopers that always managed to slip away untouched.\nOn 12 October, the carriers began launching air strikes against Formosan sites; that afternoon, the task group gunners proved exceptional, downing a pair of \"Betties\" that ventured too close. \"Vincennes\" went to general quarters at 18:55 on that day and remained at battle stations almost continuously for the next two days. At 19:03, soon after the ship had manned her battle stations, \"Vincennes\" contributed to the flaming of two planes within 10 minutes \u2013 one at 19:03 and one at 19:10. The cruiser maintained a steady rate of fire throughout the air attack that continued intermittently until 20:45.\nThe strikes ceased at that point, but the respite provided the Americans proved only temporary \u2013 the determined Japanese came back again. Flares dropped from \"snoopers\" illuminated the entire task group, bathing the ships in an eerie light. Antiaircraft fire crisscrossed the night; one enemy plane tumbled in flames from the sky; \"Vincennes\" splashed another off her starboard quarter at 23:40.\nThe operations in the vicinity of Formosa proved dangerous, to say the least. The persistent Japanese attacks had taken their toll: the light cruiser \"Houston\" and the heavy cruiser had taken torpedoes and were badly damaged, limping out of the battle zone. To protect their flight, \"Cripple Division One\" was formed. Put together on 16 October, the force served its purpose; \"Vincennes\" participated in the withdrawal, screening her crippled sister-ship and division mate, and \"Canberra\".\nLeyte Gulf.\n\"Vincennes\" then operated in the vicinity of Visayas, in the Philippines, screening, as before, the fast carriers. Enemy snoopers closed the formation on several occasions; detected early on the 24th, a Japanese four-engined flying boat \u2013 a Kawanishi H8K \"Emily\" \u2013 went down in flames to the guns of friendly fighters.\nMeanwhile, the Battle for Leyte Gulf was shaping up. At 03:25 on the 24th, \"Vincennes\" received reports of the presence of an enemy force. Four battleships, eight heavy cruisers, and 13 destroyers had been detected south of Buruncan Point, Mindanao Island. Enemy planes commenced a determined air attack; all ships in Vincennes' group maneuvered radically to avoid possible torpedoes.\nAt 02:30 on the 25th, two enemy task groups were reported about north of \"Vincennes\" formation. At 03:00, the light cruiser and her consorts headed north to engage; at 07:33, an intercepted report from a search plane told of many enemy surface ships about north and headed south at . Aircraft from the fast carriers launched and took off on the hunt, conducting persistent strikes on the Japanese ships that resulted in heavy enemy losses.\n\"Vincennes\" subsequently headed south toward the San Bernardino Strait in anticipation of making contact with the enemy ships, including stragglers, that were expected to transit the strait in retiring from the day's operations.\nAt 00:26, \"Vincennes\" radar plot disclosed a surface contact at a distance of . \"Vincennes\", and Miami escorted by DesDiv 103, broke from the formation to attack. At 00:54, gun-flashes from \"Vincennes\" and her sisters' main battery split the night; both main and secondary batteries \u2013 6 and 5-inch guns \u2013 in company with the 5-inch guns of the destroyers, hurled salvoes at the enemy vessel. The vessel \u2013 tentatively identified as a cruiser \u2013 sank beneath the waves at 01:49 as a result of the deluge of rapid shellfire. Their victim was actually the \"Nowaki\".\n\"Vincennes\" returned to former cruising grounds off Visayas on 28 October and off Luzon the following day. The ship experienced several determined air attacks on the 29th, but the CAP proved ready to accept the enemy's challenges, downing eight Japanese planes during the course of the raids.\n\"Vincennes\" continued her vital screening duties on 5\u20136 November as carrier planes carried out strikes on Japanese positions and installations on Luzon. She then headed for the Carolines, reaching Ulithi on 9 November and dropping anchor. Replenishment completed, she stood out five days later to return to the combat zone in the Philippines.\nBy the time she returned, air strikes against Japanese positions on Luzon were well underway; enemy resistance \u2013 now taking on a fiercer aspect with more widespread use of the \"kamikaze\", proved heavy once more, several persistent air attacks occurring on the ships with which \"Vincennes\" was operating. , and all took \"kamikazes\". \"Vincennes\" blasted a second kamikaze heading for \"Cabot\"; others that managed to get by the CAP were taken under fire as well.\nSubsequently, \"Vincennes\" returned to Ulithi for further replenishment and conducted exercises en route back to the battle zones. \"Vincennes\" then operated in support of carrier air strikes on Luzon from 14 to 16 December; during that time, \"Vincennes\" senior aviator, Lt. Halbert K. Evans, led a rescue mission of cruiser-based floatplanes and performed such sterling service that he was later awarded the Air Medal.\nNeptune's fury soon interrupted the unfolding pressure against the Japanese, however, when Typhoon Cobra swirled through the fleet on the 18th. The severe tropical storm generated gusts of wind up to , whipping up mountainous seas. Fortunately for \"Vincennes\", she was able to weather the storm without serious damage. After the storm had subsided, all available ships searched for the survivors of the three destroyers, , , and , which had tragically capsized in the typhoon.\nFurther operations off of Formosa, 1945.\nAfter a Christmas respite at Ulithi from 24 to 30 December, \"Vincennes\" returned to the waters off Formosa, again screening the flattops. She subsequently entered the South China Sea in early January, encountering only two small enemy raids; night fighters (\"friendlies\") downed two enemy planes early on the morning of 10 January 1945.\nAssigned areas east of Cam Ranh Bay, Indochina, the task group to which \"Vincennes\" was attached conducted air strikes on shipping in that vicinity before proceeding west of Formosa for further strikes on that already-pounded isle, as well as the coast of China. Enemy air resistance, as before, proved heavy.\nDuring subsequent attacks on Formosa, Japanese planes struck back. One pushed over into a steep dive shortly after noon on 21 January; as she screamed down at her target, \"Vincennes\" commenced firing at her. At 12:09, the determined \"kamikaze\" plunged into . Fires soon broke out; the carrier began trailing a tell-tale plume of black smoke. She had been hit hard.\nWhile ships rushed to \"Ticonderoga\"s aid, the formation resumed a lookout for the determined Japanese. At 12:46, \"Vincennes\" fired on enemy aircraft in the vicinity; three minutes later, the light cruiser teamed with \"Miami\" to blast a \"kamikaze\" from the sky and into the sea. The barrage of anti-aircraft fire, however, could not stop a second suicider which plunged into \"Ticonderoga\" at 12:55.\nAfter supporting strikes against Japanese positions on Okinawa, \"Vincennes\" returned to Ultihi for replenishment, reaching that place of rest on 26 January. Leaving the Carolines in her wake subsequently, the light cruiser departed Ulithi on 10 February, joining TG\u00a058.1 that evening. During scheduled gunnery exercises, a radio control target drone crashed into the splinter shield of one of \"Vincennes\" 40\u00a0mm mounts, bursting into flame. With utter disregard for their own safety, four sailors, Chief Boatswain's Mate Mack C. Miller, USN; Gunner's Mate 3d Class Carl C. Miller, USNR; Gunner's Mate 3d Class Buck E. Goebel, USNR; and Seaman 1st Class Paul G. Catarius, USNR, entered the mount and threw smoldering debris, as well as damaged and overheated ammunition over the side, thus preventing further damage. For their meritorious conduct, each man received commendation ribbons subsequently.\nOperations off Japan &amp; Okinawa, 1945.\nRepairing the superficial damage in the wake of the drone accident, \"Vincennes\" continued with TG\u00a058.1 as it headed toward the Japanese home islands. Operating southeast of Honsh\u016b, the fast carriers conducted strikes on the Tokyo area and the southern Bonin Islands. The first carrier strikes conducted by the fast carrier planes hit Tokyo on the 16th; strikes that continued the following day, stepping up the pace of the war and carrying it to the Empire's veritable doorstep.\nOver the days that ensued, carrier planes hit not only targets in Japan but on Chichi Jima, hitting Japanese airfields. More strikes against Tokyo itself took place on 25 February.\nFour days later, the carriers launched their planes to hit Okinawa. On 1 March, \"Vincennes\", \"Miami\", , and DesRon\u00a061, with Rear Admiral Whiting in \"Vincennes\" as unit commander, sailed for Okino Daito Shima and shelled Japanese installations there starting large fires ashore. For directing the successful bombardment mission, Rear Admiral Whiting was awarded the Bronze Star.\nThe following fortnight for \"Vincennes\" was spent primarily in operational training and replenishment away from the forward operating areas. Complete release from combat tensions was not enjoyed, however, for \"kamikazes\" struck Ulithi on 11 March, one crashing into the new carrier only three miles distant, and another crashing ashore.\nReturning to the battle zone within a week's time, \"Vincennes\" steamed with TG\u00a058.1 as it headed for Ky\u016bsh\u016b. After American carrier-based planes had hit Japanese installations on Ky\u016bsh\u016b, determined enemy attacks on the formation kept \"Vincennes\" gunnery department busy on the 18th. A twin-engined bomber flew over the ship at 05:06 on that day, at an altitude of . The ship's gunfire scored hits on that enemy aircraft, as well as another one that crashed into the sea astern, just 20 minutes later. At 06:01, \"Vincennes\" gunners scored again, splashing a Japanese plane close to .\nFiring at enemy aircraft continued at intervals throughout the balance of 18\u201319 March, with \"Vincennes\" contributing an outstanding performance; her antiaircraft fire control officer, 1st Lieutenant Henry M. Lamberton, USMCR, received a Bronze Star for his direction of that battery.\n\"Vincennes\" operated east of Okinawa from 23 to 25 March, while carriers in TG\u00a058.1 sent off their planes to conduct air strikes against the Japanese on Okinawa. Two days later, the ship resumed operations east and southeast of the island earmarked for invasion and continued such operations through 5 April. On 31 March, two of \"Vincennes\" floatplanes cooperated in rescuing a downed fighter pilot in spite of heavy enemy fire; Lt. Evans, commended earlier, received the Distinguished Flying Cross, while Lt. (jg.) George A. Greenwood, USNR, and the two rear-seat men all received Air Medals.\nOn 1 April, the day of the initial assault on Okinawa, enemy air attacks came thick and fast. Ships of TG\u00a058.1 smashed 12 enemy planes into the sea; \"Vincennes\" drew three assists in the action. At 13:21, the ship experienced her narrowest escape in the war; an enemy aircraft, hit by the ship's gunfire, crashed only astern.\nSubsequently, \"Vincennes\" operated in various groups of TF\u00a058 off Okinawa, supporting the fast carriers as they hit Okinawa and Ky\u016bsh\u016b. Frequent and persistent air attacks characterized the three weeks commencing on 7 April, while the invasion of Okinawa proceeded apace. CAP fighters shot down many of the attackers, but sometimes the attacks came in such force that ships in the formation would have to lay down barrages of antiaircraft fire to greet the enemy aircraft that had fought their way through the friendly fighters.\nAfter another replenishment period at Ulithi, \"Vincennes\" rejoined the forces off Okinawa, remaining with TG\u00a058.1. The light cruiser performed screening duties for the fast carriers as they hit Ky\u016bsh\u016b before being ordered to report for duty with the shore bombardment forces off Okinawa on 17 May. In company with sister-ship , \"Vincennes\" complied and, for 27 of the next 30 days, shelled Japanese targets ashore, both day and night.\n\"Vincennes\" 6\u00a0in guns fired 5,836 rounds; her batteries contributed another 10,583 rounds to the shellings. Air spotters and shore fire control spotters recorded the effectiveness of the ship's fire in their subsequent reports: she destroyed a large \"disappearing coastal gun\" and concentrations of troops; direct hits were scored on mortar positions; destroyed nine gun emplacements; destroyed an ammunition dump with a direct hit; destroyed coastal batteries; and closed off the entrances to at least five caves. Her airmen proved a busy lot, Lt. Evans earning a gold star in lieu of his second DFC and Lt. (jg.) Greenwood earning a DFC; each man flew 10 spotting missions.\nEnd of the war &amp; post-war.\n\"Vincennes\" fired her final salvoes on 16 June and then headed for the United States for a much-needed overhaul. Sailing via Pearl Harbor, Vincennes reached Mare Island Navy Yard on 8 July and remained there until the availability was completed in late August.\nDuring that time, the war in the Pacific had drawn to a close with a battered but defiant Japan surrendering in mid-August. After her post-repair trials, \"Vincennes\" had shifted to San Diego on 29 August to commence her post-repair shakedown and refresher training in the waters off San Clemente Island.\n\"Vincennes\" then participated in Operation Magic Carpet following her refresher training, sailing between Pearl Harbor and the west coast as a transport for returning sailors and Marines. She continued her \"Magic Carpet\" assignment by sailing for the South Pacific that autumn, reaching Noumea, New Caledonia, to become the flagship for Rear Admiral Paul Hendren, Commander, South Pacific Area Force. On 25 October, the ship got underway to take Rear Admiral Hendren on an inspection tour of facilities at Guadalcanal; in the Russells; at Tulagi; at Espiritu Santo; and Efate, returning to Noum\u00e9a on 5 November. During the course of that brief voyage, the ship passed near the spot where her namesake had gone down that furious night of combat on 8 and 9 August 1942 in the Battle of Savo Island.\n\"Vincennes\" subsequently made two trips to New Zealand waters before returning home with 300 veterans embarked as passengers. Discharging them at San Francisco upon her arrival on 23 March 1946, the light cruiser sped to Mare Island where workmen soon commenced deactivating the ship.\nDecommissioning.\nDecommissioned on 10 September 1946, \"Vincennes\" never returned to active service with the Fleet. She was one of the \"Cleveland class\" ships surveyed for conversion to guided missile configuration like her sisters \"Little Rock\" and \"Providence\", but other ships were selected instead. Struck from the Navy list on 1 April 1966, she was sunk as a target in missile experiments in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Southern California near Point Mugu, on 28 October 1969.\nAwards.\n\"Vincennes\" earned six battle stars for her World War II service."}
{"id": "732775", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732775", "title": "Bernt Haas", "text": "Bernt Haas (; born 8 April 1978) is a Swiss former professional footballer who played as a right-back. He is the sporting director of FC Schaffhausen.\nClub career.\nHaas was born in Vienna, Austria. He played his early youth football with local club FC Freienbach before he moved to the youth department of Grasshoppers Zurich. Aged just 16 years he signed his first professional contract and advanced from the U-21 team to GC first team under head coach Christian Gross during the 1994\u201395 Nationalliga A season. Haas played his debut on 31 May 1995 as GC won an away game 3\u20131 against Lausanne-Sport. At the end of the season he won the Swiss Championship. Haas play his Champions League debut on 1 November 1995 as GC played a goalless draw against Ajax.&lt;ref name=\"Uefa-CL-1995/96-GC-Ajax\"&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; Haas played with GC for seven seasons before moving to England to join Premier League club Sunderland in August 2001. Despite making 27 appearances for the club in 2001\u201302, he did not play for Sunderland during the following season and was loaned out to FC Basel.\nOn 30 August 2002, it was announced that Haas had joined Basel's first team during their 2002\u201303 season under head coach Christian Gross, who in the meantime had moved on. Haas played his domestic league debut for the club in the home game in the St. Jakob-Park on 11 September 2002 as Basel won 7\u20131 against Wil. Basel advanced to the group stage and they ended this in second position behind Valencia, but ahead of Liverpool and Spartak Moscow to advance to the second group stage. They ended this in third position behind Manchester United and Juventus, but ahead of Deportivo La Coru\u00f1a. Haas scored his first goal for the club on 8 March 2003 in the home game as Basel won 2\u20130 against Servette.&lt;ref name=\"fcb-achiv-2002/03-F-FCBServette\"&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; \nAlthough Basel had a buy out option in the loan contract, Hass decided he wanted to return to England. During his 10 months with the club he played a total of 43 games for Basel scoring that one goal. 22 of these games were in the Swiss Super League, four in the Swiss Cup, 11 in the Champions League and six were friendly games.\nHaas joined West Bromwich Albion in 2003, and was a regular at right-back as Albion were promoted back to the Premier League. He scored with a superb volley in the 2\u20130 League Cup win against Manchester United, having already scored in an earlier round against Brentford. He also scored once in the league against Crewe. However, he found his chances limited in the top-flight, and left the club by mutual consent on 21 January 2005. The following day he signed for SC Bastia in France, whom he played for prior to joining 1. FC K\u00f6ln. \nAfter just one season at Cologne, he joined Swiss Super League club FC St. Gallen in 2007. But injuries obstructed his progress. The career of the strong right-back ended in some doctor's room in St. Gallen. Cartilage damage and osteoarthritis in the knee.\nInternational career.\nHaas played for the Switzerland national team at Euro 2004 and was sent off in the match against England.\nPost-retirement.\nFollowing his retirement in 2010, Haas decided to go self-employed and became a player consultant. He functioned as director of football for Liechtensteiner club FC Vaduz from 2015 until 2018. He remained living in Wollerau and commuted the 40 minutes by car to the Principality.\nBetween 2020 and 2022, he functioned as Sporting Director at Swiss Challenge League side FC Schaffhausen. On 7 September 2023, he was fined 2,000 for his role in Schaffhausen fielding ineligible players during the 2021\u201322 season. That season's top scorer Joaqu\u00edn Ardaiz and his fellow Uruguayan Agust\u00edn Gonz\u00e1lez had made appearances in 21 games without a valid work permit. \nOn 1 July 2022, he was appointed sporting director of his former club Grasshopper Club Z\u00fcrich. He was dismissed from this position on 27 March 2024.\nOn 3 March 2025, he returned to the sporting director position at Schaffhausen.\nPersonal life.\nHe has a twin sister named Dina, once a talented sports photographer and well known in the football business.\nHaas once worked as a model for Armani.\nHonours.\nGrasshoppers\nFC Basel"}
{"id": "732780", "revid": "1311785644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732780", "title": "Tony Hawk's Underground", "text": "Tony Hawk's Underground is a 2003 skateboarding video game and the fifth entry in the \"Tony Hawk's\" series, following \"Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4\". It was developed by Neversoft and published by Activision for the GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, and Game Boy Advance. In 2004, it was published for Windows in Australia and New Zealand as a budget release.\n\"Underground\" is built upon the skateboarding formula of previous \"Tony Hawk's\" games: the player explores levels and completes goals while performing tricks. It features a new focus on customization; the player, instead of selecting a professional skater, creates a custom character. \"Underground\" adds the ability for players to dismount their boards and explore on foot. The plot follows the player character and their friend Eric Sparrow as the two become professionals and grow apart.\n\"Underground\" was developed with a theme of individuality which was manifested in the extensive character customization options, the presence of a narrative, and the product's characterization as an adventure game. Real world professional skateboarders contributed their experiences to the plot. \"Underground\" was a major critical and commercial success, with reviewers praising its wide appeal, soundtrack, customization, multiplayer, and storyline. The graphics and the controls for driving vehicles and walking were less well received. \"Underground\"s PlayStation 2 version had sold 2.11 million copies in the United States by December 2007. A sequel, \"Tony Hawk's Underground 2\", followed in 2004.\nGameplay.\nLike its predecessors in the \"Tony Hawk's\" series, \"Underground\" is centered on skateboarding in a series of levels. The player performs tricks via combinations of analog stick and button inputs. For example, the player initiates an ollie (a jump trick) by holding and releasing the jump button. During an ollie, the player may change the position of the analog stick and press one of two buttons to perform either a flip trick (such as an impossible or kickflip) or a grab trick (such as a benihana or nosegrab). The player can grind on certain edges and rails; different tricks may be performed during a grind based on the position of the analog stick. On quarter pipes, the player may execute lip tricks. While skating on flat surfaces, the player may manual in multiple ways via button combinations. Miscellaneous tricks include acid drops and wall-rides.\nWhile a grind, lip, or manual trick is underway, a balance meter appears: unless the player prevents this meter from falling to the left or right, the character will bail and need a few seconds to recover. Bailing can also be caused by falling without one's board facing downward. Completing tricks in succession without bailing is called a combo. Comboing raises the player's score and fills up the Special Meter; when it is full, the player is granted access to more elaborate tricks worth more points, such as the McTwist and 540 Flip. \"Underground\" introduces the ability to dismount one's skateboard, which allows the player to explore levels more carefully and reach new areas. Each level features at least one vehicle, usually a car, that the player can drive.\nThe levels are based on regions of the United States and other countries. In each level, certain tasks that advance the narrative must be completed before the player can move on. These tasks include score attacks, races, item collection, and reaching one of many gaps found in a level. Each level houses one professional skateboarder, who provides a sidequest that unlocks a trick for the Special Meter. On account of the levels' large sizes and the integration of goals into the story, \"Underground\" has been described as an adventure game. Characters can level up their stats\u2014which include jump height and speed\u2014by completing optional goals in a level; this adds an element of role-playing gameplay. Other gameplay modes include multiplayer minigames\u2014one, a combat mode called \"Firefight\", can be played online in the PlayStation 2 version\u2014and a \"free skate\" mode that lets the player explore levels with no goals or story.\n\"Underground\" features extensive customization. The player creates a custom character for the story mode, and may not play as a pre-made professional skater outside a few contexts: a special scene late in the game, minigames, and the free skate mode. A level editor allows the player to create skate parks with a large array of objects, ranging from traditional skate park elements like halfpipes, ramps, funboxes, and grind rails to more outlandish pieces like buildings and sections of elevated freeways. The player can change their park's time of day and environmental theme. Tricks, skateboards, and level goals may be customized as well.\n\"Underground\" features many real world professional skateboarders including: Tony Hawk, Bob Burnquist, Paul Rodriguez, Chad Muska, Mike Vallely, Andrew Reynolds, and Stacy Peralta. \"Underground\" also features cameo appearances by Iron Man, a parody of C.H.U.D. called T.H.U.D., and Kiss bassist Gene Simmons.\nWhile the console versions are fully three-dimensional, the Game Boy Advance version is rendered in an isometric style that incorporates both 2D sprites and 3D models. This version is a more traditional \"Tony Hawk's\" game, with little attention given to the story or customization. The mobile version is similarly restricted.\nPlot.\nThe protagonist and their friend, Eric Sparrow, live in suburban New Jersey and dream of becoming famous skateboarders. The protagonist manages to impress professional skater Chad Muska, visiting town for a demo, who gives them a new skateboard and informs them that a good way to start a skating career is to gain a sponsorship from a local skate shop. The protagonist seeks out Stacy Peralta, who agrees to sponsor them on the condition that the player does something to set themselves apart from the other local skaters, so the protagonist travels to Manhattan, New York with Eric, who is on the run from drug dealers after setting their car on fire as revenge for stealing from the skate shop.\nThere, the pair shoot a skating video that impresses Stacy, who loans them a van and suggests they enter the Tampa AM, an amateur division skate contest held annually at the Skatepark of Tampa, in Tampa, Florida. Upon arrival, Eric is arrested for insulting a police officer, and the protagonist does favors for the local police department to secure his bail. However, when they arrive for the contest, it is revealed that Eric had only completed his own application form and not the protagonist's, forcing a dejected protagonist to try and impress competitors in the pro contest in order to gain admission. After impressing Tony Hawk, the protagonist wins the Best Trick event at Tampa AM and is offered sponsorship deals by Birdhouse, Element, Flip, Girl, and Zero to join their skate teams, much to Eric's dismay. After selecting a team, the protagonist then heads to San Diego, California to meet Todd, the manager of the team, and completes several photo shoots for a magazine. Following a wild celebration party, it is revealed that Eric has been picked up by the same sponsor.\nThe team then flies out to Hawaii to film a video, with the protagonist aiming for local spots that skaters have not filmed at before. Finding a tall hotel, the protagonist climbs to the roof and recruits Eric to film a trick video atop it. The police arrive to arrest them for trespassing, but the protagonist uses the opportunity to perform a McTwist over the helicopter and onto the awning of the adjacent Royal Hawaiian Hotel, allowing them and an awestruck Eric to evade the police. The team then travels to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. After doing errands for locals and finishing their part of the team video, the protagonist attends the video premiere at the Slam City Jam. Eric steals the idea and edits the protagonist's part out of the video, allowing only Eric to become a professional. After angrily confronting Eric, the protagonist enters Eric's pro contest and wins, becoming a pro as well.\nAfter designing their own pro skateboard and signing a shoe deal, the protagonist and Eric embark on a team trip to Moscow, Russia, where they reconcile. Eric gets drunk and joyrides in a Russian military tank. The protagonist hops in and attempts to stop the tank but, being unfamiliar with the controls, fails to stop it from crashing into a government building. Eric jumps out and runs away, leaving the protagonist, trapped inside, to be arrested by the Russian military. Eric then lies and claims the protagonist stole the tank, stating that he in fact tried to stop them. Unwilling to pay the $700,000 worth of damages, Todd kicks the protagonist off the team, much to Eric's delight. The American Embassy bails out the protagonist, leaving them to do favors for locals in order to return home to New Jersey.\nEric, who now owns his own skate company, reveals that he had been planning to betray the protagonist after having long abandoned the idea of \"soul skating\" (skating for enjoyment rather than riches); after unsuccessfully trying to exempt them from the Tampa AM, Eric stole the helicopter footage in jealousy before finally getting the protagonist kicked off the skate team by lying back in Moscow. Determined to fight back, the protagonist teams up with Peralta and several professionals to create a soul skating video, creating a new trick in the process. Due to the success of the video, Eric challenges the protagonist to one last skate-off, with the unedited helicopter tape at stake. The protagonist wins the skate-off and walks away with the tape while Eric screams at them.\nAlternate ending.\nIf the story has been completed more than once on two different difficulties, an alternate ending occurs, where the protagonist knocks Eric unconscious, taking the tape back instead of holding the skate-off.\nDevelopment.\nConcept.\nThe GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox versions of \"Underground\" were developed by Neversoft, while the Game Boy Advance version was developed by Vicarious Visions the mobile version by Jamdat, and the Windows version was created by Beenox. Activision, which had acquired Neversoft in 1999, published all the versions. \"Underground\" was conceived as the fifth entry in the \"Tony Hawk's Pro Skater\" series under the title \"Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 5\" (no relation to the 2015 game \"Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 5\"), but it was reworked.\n\"Underground\" was created with a theme of individuality: it stars an amateur skater in a true story mode, whereas each previous \"Tony Hawk's\" game had starred professional skaters and had lacked a plot. One reason for only allowing the player to use a custom character was that certain criminal acts completed in the plot would not reflect well on real-world skaters. Previous games in the series had included character-creation features as well, but Neversoft expanded customization in \"Underground\" by implementing face-scanning for the PlayStation 2 version: if the player emailed a photograph of their face to \"faces@thugonline.com\", the company could digitize it for use in the game. Regarding the customization options, especially the park editor, producer Stacey Drellishak said that Neversoft was \"trying to create the most customizable game ever\". The developers used storytelling and exploration to distance their product from the plotless, task-based format of previous \"Tony Hawk's\" games, which led Neversoft president Joel Jewett to describe \"Underground\" as an adventure game.\nDesign.\nLevels in the console versions of \"Underground\" were significantly larger than those of earlier \"Tony Hawk's\" games. Neversoft expanded each level until it ceased to run correctly, then shrunk it slightly. Most of the levels were modelled closely after real-world locations; the designers traveled to locales representative of each city and took photographs and videos as reference. The New Jersey level was a replication of a neighborhood where team artist Henry Ji had grown up as a young skater. Neversoft wanted the player to become familiar with the basic game mechanics quickly and to notice \"Underground\"s differences from previous \"Tony Hawk's\" games immediately. To accomplish this, they introduced the ability to travel on foot, and the ability to climb along ledges in the first few missions. While Neversoft wanted to keep \"Underground\" realistic and relatable for the most part, they added driving side-missions as an enjoyable diversion and to push the boundaries of freedom in skateboarding games, but these missions were not intended to take away from the main experience of skateboarding.\n\"Pro Skater 4\", \"Underground\"s predecessor in the \"Tony Hawk's\" series, had received criticism for its difficulty: Neversoft had not realized that each game in the series was drawing new fans who were unaccustomed to the demanding tasks. As a result, Neversoft added four difficulty settings to \"Underground\"s story mode, ranging from \"Too Easy\" to \"Sick\". Neversoft wanted players to develop skills for higher difficulty settings on Too Easy while still progressing through the story. The company had included extremely difficult missions in each previous \"Tony Hawk's\" game; the methods used to create these missions were the inspiration for \"Underground\"s Sick mode. Development of the basic gameplay mechanics and structure began quickly but by the end of August 2003, only two months before the American release, work was still in progress.\nWhile the cutscenes are animated with 3D graphics, the team recorded live-action videos to introduce the real-world skateboarding teams, so that players could better understand each team before selecting one to join. Neversoft interviewed professional skaters about their experiences of becoming known in the skateboarding world, then compiled elements of these stories into the script. Every skater who appears in the plot helped to craft their own scenes and voiced their own character.\nPromotion and release.\n\"Underground\" was promoted with a playable demo at Microsoft's \"GameRiot\" event held at Lollapalooza in July 2003. Activision promoted \"Underground\" with the \"Tony Hawk's Face Off Mobile Tour\", a series of events across 29 cities in October. Attendees could play the game early and compete in it for tickets to Boom Boom Huck Jam 2003, which Tony Hawk himself attended. Activision, which sponsored the October Gravity Games extreme sports competition, promoted the game at the event and used its rendering engine to model tricks performed by the real-world skaters. The console and Game Boy Advance versions were released on October 28 in the United States, November 14 in Europe, and May 2004 in Japan. The mobile phone version was released worldwide in January 2004. This version was distributed in the United States via AT&amp;T's mMode data download service and also by Verizon Wireless. \"Underground\" had a marketing budget of $8.6 million.\nReception.\nCritical response.\n\"Tony Hawk's Underground\" received \"universal acclaim\", according to review aggregator Metacritic. GameZone's Michael Knutson wrote that \"Underground\" is \"one of the best skating games around\" and that players of every skill level would enjoy it. \"Eurogamer\"s Tom Bramwell concurred that \"as a 'pick-up-and-play' sort of game, \"THUG\" is endlessly rewarding\" and called it the best entry in the series.\nThe story was well received. Joe Rybicki of \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\" said that, as an extreme-sports game, \"Underground\" has a real story with \"honest-to-goodness characters\". \"IGN\"s Douglas Perry called it \"a kick, albeit relatively lightweight in nature\". He especially praised the pervasive sense of humor in the narrative and in the portrayal of real-world skaters. Knutson called the story \"unique\" and said that it blends well with the gameplay. Ben Silverman of \"Game Revolution\" described the plot as a \"silly\" cross between those of the 1980s films \"North Shore\" and \"Gleaming the Cube\", but he praised it for giving context to the level goals and keeping distance between the skill unlocks. Bramwell called it \"hackneyed\". Rybicki found that the plot hurt the replay value and caused missions to be overly simplistic. By contrast, \"Game Informer\"s Justin Leeper thought that \"it serves to make some of the less-entertaining goals tolerable, because there's a reason for doing them\".\nThe aesthetics were generally well received. Bramwell called the graphics \"unchanged and increasingly antiquated\" and criticized the presence of \"sharp, angular character models, eerily unrealistic lighting and odd little moments when the player is trying to turn round and ends up banging into a curb\". Knutson, meanwhile, was positive regarding the graphics, art, and animation: he called them \"nearly flawless\" and praised the realism they brought to the inherently fantastical skateboarding genre. Williams said that \"\"THUG\"s cityscapes are incredibly well designed\" and singled out the GameCube version of \"Underground\" as exceptionally well rendered. Rybicki called the levels \"big and beautiful\". Knutson commended the soundtrack's large size and the sound effects' realism. Perry appreciated the \"hilariously hurtful\" injury sounds and the extensive song list. By contrast, \"IGN\"s Craig Harris praised the graphics of the Game Boy Advance version but was more mixed on the soundtrack.\nThe alternate gameplay modes were received well. Knutson lauded the high degree of customization; he summarized that \"everything is expounded a hundred fold: from create-a-skater to create-a-park mode, it is simply amazing\". He singled out the level editor as one of the deepest he had ever seen. \"GameSpy\"s Bryn Williams identified the level editor as an \"extremely well-designed\" feature that contributed to the overall \"brilliance\" of the full product. Leeper said that each customization mode is \"intuitive and user-friendly\", and both he and Rybicki especially enjoyed the trick-creation feature. Reviewers for \"Famitsu\" magazine praised the story mode, whose open world format they compared to the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series. Knutson and Perry enjoyed the multiplayer, particularly the online Firefight mode. Williams thought similarly and stated that \"the most notable disappointment\" was the lack of online play for non-PlayStation 2 owners. Harris found the board customization of the Game Boy Advance version to be poorly implemented, though in-depth. Despite his praise for the customization modes, Leeper admitted that his greatest enjoyment still came from \"seeking great lines\" and beating own scores.\nThe walking and driving controls were criticized. Bramwell claimed that these modes felt \"like they've been attached with an old stick of glue that's about as adhesive as baby oil\". Knutson agreed, though he praised the novelty of these diversions. He stated that \"the \"Tony Hawk\" series has always had exceptional controls\" and that \"Underground\", overall, was no exception. Perry felt that the feature increased levels' replay value. Similarly, \"Famitsu\" reviewers noted that, although the fast pace was extremely challenging at times, the high difficulty provides a sense of accomplishment when jumps and tricks are performed correctly. Williams found the GameCube version's controls mediocre, albeit manageable. Damon Brown from \"GameSpot\" said that the mobile version's restrictive controls\u2014many tricks require three button inputs\u2014were that version's only caveat.\nSales and accolades.\n\"Underground\" won Best Sports Game at the 2003 Game Critics Awards hosted by Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). The 2004 MTV Video Music Awards introduced a new category, Best Video Game Soundtrack, which \"Underground\" won. During the AIAS' 7th Annual Interactive Achievement Awards, \"Underground\" received nominations for Console Action Sports Game of the Year, Outstanding Achievement in Game Design, and Outstanding Achievement in Licensed Soundtrack.\nIn Europe the week after the release, the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube versions were respectively the fifth, sixth, and eighth-best selling games for those consoles. It would remain uninterrupted in the top twenty of every week until January 24, 2004, for the Xbox and GameCube and February 21 for the PlayStation 2, inclusive. As of December 2007, the PlayStation 2 version had sold 2.11 million copies in the United States. The GameCube version made Nintendo's Player's Choice list by selling 250,000 copies in the United States. Its PlayStation 2 version also received a \"Platinum\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 300,000 copies in the United Kingdom.\nSequel.\nNeversoft and Activision released a sequel, \"Underground 2\", on October 4, 2004, for Windows, GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, Game Boy Advance, and PlayStation Portable consoles. The plot continues that of \"Underground\" and focuses on the player character and their team sabotaging an opposing team. The gameplay, structure, and level design are very similar to those of \"Underground\", but \"Underground 2\" features new tricks and gameplay mechanics, like the Natas spin, the ability to plant customized stickers in levels with the \"sticker slap\", a slow-motion \"Focus\" mode, and the ability to earn points by having a tantrum after falling. The plot is set in new locations, including Boston, New Orleans, Berlin, Barcelona, and Skatopia."}
{"id": "732781", "revid": "49382372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732781", "title": "Baja Verapaz Department", "text": "Baja Verapaz () is a department in Guatemala. In 2018, the population of the department was 299,476. The capital is Salam\u00e1. 78.5% of the department\u2019s population identifies as Maya, with 53% belonging to the Achi linguistic group.\nBaja Verapaz contains the Mario Dary Biotope Preserve, preserving the native flora and fauna of the region, especially the endangered national bird of Guatemala, the Resplendent Quetzal."}
{"id": "732784", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732784", "title": "Lady Uddin", "text": ""}
{"id": "732785", "revid": "864270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732785", "title": "Lady Goudie", "text": ""}
{"id": "732786", "revid": "10202399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732786", "title": "Allan Clarke (footballer)", "text": "Allan John Clarke (born 31 July 1946), nicknamed \"Sniffer\", is an English former professional footballer who played in the Football League for Walsall, Fulham, Leicester City, Leeds United and Barnsley, and won 19 international caps for England.\nCareer.\nEarly career.\nClarke was born in Short Heath, Willenhall, Staffordshire. He is the third of seven children. Clarke joined Walsall in 1961 as an apprentice, playing his debut for the Saddlers in October 1963, against Reading. Whilst at the club he scored 46 goals in 82 appearances. He was transferred to Fulham in March 1966 for a fee of \u00a335,000. Such was his early promise that Leicester City paid \u00a3150,000 for Clarke in 1968, a then British football transfer fee record. Frank Large moved to Fulham from Leicester as part of the deal. Clarke spent just one season at Leicester City, in which he scored the winning goal in the semi-final of the 1969 FA Cup, knocking out the team he had supported as a boy \u2013 West Bromwich Albion. He also played in the FA Cup final and was man of the match, despite Leicester City losing 1\u20130 to Manchester City.\nLeeds United.\nOn 24 June 1969, Leeds United manager Don Revie paid \u00a3165,000 to Leicester City for Clarke's services. For the second time, Clarke had topped the British football transfer fee record.\nClarke scored 26 goals in his first season at Leeds and earned the nickname \"Sniffer\", because of his predatory instincts of \"sniffing out\" scoring opportunities. Leeds United chased a dream \"treble\" of League championship, FA Cup and European Cup though ultimately they won nothing. Clarke hit the post in the FA Cup Final at Wembley (with strike partner Mick Jones following up to score the rebound) and then went on a run through several Chelsea defenders in the replay to set up a goal for Jones again, but Leeds United still lost. The title had already gone to Everton who had clinched the trophy several weeks before the end of the season, and the European Cup campaign ended with defeat to Celtic in the semi-final (0\u20131 at Elland Road and 1\u20132 at Hampden Park).\nClarke was in the Leeds United side that won its second Fairs Cup in 1971, scoring in the final against Juventus. Leeds United reached the FA Cup Final again in the competition's centenary year, and at Wembley they faced the Cup holders, Arsenal. Clarke scored the only goal of the game with a diving header from a Jones cross early in the second half. He had hit the crossbar with another diving header earlier in the game. Unfortunately for Clarke and Leeds, they lost the League title and the chance of emulating Arsenal's previous season \"double\" when they lost to Wolverhampton Wanderers two days after winning the FA Cup.\nClarke played again at Wembley \u2013 and lost \u2013 when Leeds United were beaten 1\u20130 by Sunderland in the 1973 FA Cup Final. Clarke was again Leeds United's top scorer as Leeds United won the league title in 1974, including a run of 29 opening matches without defeat. Leeds United lost the 1975 European Cup Final to Bayern Munich 2\u20130 and were denied a clear penalty when Clarke was tackled from behind and felled by Franz Beckenbauer in the penalty area.\nAfter this match the Revie side began to break up; their manager had left in 1974 to take the England job, and Clarke himself left the club in 1978 after 351 appearances and 151 goals, with a knee injury curtailing his ability to play at top-flight level. He scored in the 1977 FA Cup semi-final, but the game ended in a 2\u20131 win by Manchester United.\nInternational career.\nClarke was called up for England's 1970 World Cup squad in Mexico, despite being uncapped. He made his debut for his country against Czechoslovakia in the heat and pressure of a World Cup first-round match. Clarke scored the only goal of the match, from the penalty spot. He remains the most recent England player to make his international debut in a World Cup finals match. Over the next five years he appeared a total of 19 times for England, scoring ten goals.\nIn 1973, he was in the England team which needed to beat Poland at Wembley to qualify for the 1974 World Cup. A goal down, England were awarded a penalty from which Clarke scored, but other than that, he was among many England players to be thwarted by the Polish goalkeeper Jan Tomaszewski. A 1\u20131 draw was not enough, and England did not go through to play in the 1974 World Cup.\nManagerial career.\nClarke was appointed Barnsley player-manager on 1 June 1978, and under him they won promotion to the old third Division in May 1979, Clarke scoring 12 goals himself that season including a hat-trick against Port Vale on Boxing Day. On 29 December 1979, Barnsley lost 7\u20130 at Reading, and Clarke decided to end his playing career. He took his players down Woolley Colliery to show them what they could have been doing for a living. Clarke then began to bring in new players such as Trevor Aylott and Derrick Parker and Ian Evans and Barnsley finished mid-table. Clarke left Barnsley in September 1980 to manage Leeds United. Leeds finished 9th under Clarke at the end of his first season as manager, but the following season, they were beaten 5\u20131 at Swansea on the opening day, and only won once until October. Leeds were relegated and Clarke was sacked on 25 June 1982. He then became manager at Scunthorpe United between February 1983, and 24 August 1984, when he and the chairman both resigned. He led Scunthorpe to promotion to the Third Division in May 1983, but a year later they were relegated.\nClarke had another spell at Barnsley between 1 July 1985 and 8 November 1989. Despite having no money to spend, low gates, and being forced to sell players such as David Hirst and John Beresford, Clarke led Barnsley to the fifth round of the FA Cup twice, when they were knocked out by Arsenal in 1987 and Everton in 1989. At the end of 1988\u201389 season, Barnsley finished just two points off securing a play-off place, losing only twice in the last 17 games. However, in the following season, after a bright start, a bad run saw Barnsley move, by 4 November, to fifth-from-bottom. Four days later Clarke was sacked. He was Lincoln City caretaker manager for six months, being replaced by Steve Thompson on 30 November 1990.\nLife outside football.\nFrom 1993 until he reached retirement age, Clarke was a travelling salesman for MTS Nationwide, a firm based at Wakefield, West Yorkshire. He has, however, remained an outspoken critic of the game, and like all the Leeds United players of the Revie era, has remained fiercely protective of the reputation of both the manager and the club. He has suffered from arthritic knees in recent years. Clarke now lives in Scunthorpe, Lincolnshire.\nThe Clarke footballing brothers.\nAllan was the second of five brothers to play the professional game \u2013 four of whom played for Walsall across three decades.\nFrank was the only Clarke brother not to represent Walsall, playing for Shrewsbury Town, Queens Park Rangers, Ipswich Town and Carlisle United; Derek played for Walsall, Oxford United and Orient; Kelvin played for Walsall; and the youngest sibling, Wayne Clarke, played for Walsall towards the end of his career.\nHonours.\nLeicester City\nLeeds United\nIndividual"}
{"id": "732787", "revid": "41723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732787", "title": "Princess Jelisaveta of Serbia and Yugoslavia", "text": ""}
{"id": "732789", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732789", "title": "Lady Buscombe", "text": ""}
{"id": "732790", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732790", "title": "Lady Thornton", "text": ""}
{"id": "732793", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732793", "title": "Lady Miller of Chilthorne Domer", "text": ""}
{"id": "732795", "revid": "37052726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732795", "title": "Uh", "text": ""}
{"id": "732796", "revid": "30211467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732796", "title": "Chimaltenango Department", "text": "Chimaltenango is a department of Guatemala. The capital is Chimaltenango.\nGeography.\nLocated to the east are Guatemala Department, home to Guatemala City, and Sacatep\u00e9quez Department, while also bordered by Quich\u00e9 Department and Baja Verapaz Department to the north, Escuintla Department and Suchitep\u00e9quez Department to the south, and Solol\u00e1 Department to the west. The capital of Chimaltenango is located about 54 kilometers away from Guatemala City.\nIn addition to the city of Chimaltenango, the department contains the towns of Santa Apolonia (known for its ceramics), San Juan Comalapa, and Patz\u00fan (known for its elaborate Corpus Christi celebrations in June). Chimaltenango is also home to the Maya civilization ruins of Iximch\u00e9 and Mixco Viejo, in addition to many smaller sites.\nDemographics.\nAs of the 2018 census, the population of Chimaltenango department was 615,776. The majority of the people in the department are of Cakchiquel Maya descent. The department has an area of 1,979\u00a0km\u00b2.\nThere are several humanitarian aid groups that provide services in Chimaltenango.\nMunicipalities.\nThe department abbreviation is CMT."}
{"id": "732798", "revid": "10643005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732798", "title": "Electoral district (Canada)", "text": "An electoral district in Canada is a geographical constituency upon which Canada's representative democracy is based. It is officially known in Canadian French as a ' but frequently called a ' ('county'). In Canadian English it is also colloquially, and more commonly known as a riding or constituency.\nEach federal electoral district returns one Member of Parliament (MP) to the House of Commons of Canada; each provincial or territorial electoral district returns one representative\u2014called, depending on the province or territory, Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA), Member of the National Assembly (MNA), Member of Provincial Parliament (MPP) or Member of the House of Assembly (MHA)\u2014to the provincial or territorial legislature.\nBeginning with the 2025 federal election, there have been 343 federal electoral districts in Canada. In provincial and territorial legislatures, the provinces and territories each set their own number of electoral districts independently of their federal representation. The province of Ontario used to define most of its provincial electoral districts to align with federal boundaries; no other province does so, and even Ontario maintains a few variances from federal boundaries. However the practice stopped in 2024, when the Ford government did not follow the 2022 Canadian federal electoral redistribution and held the 2025 Ontario general election using the same 2012 Canadian federal electoral redistribution boundaries used in the previous provincial election. The ward boundaries of Toronto City Council also correspond to provincial electoral district boundaries. They are numbered with the provincial names in brackets.\nElections Canada is the independent body set up by Parliament to oversee Canadian federal elections, while each province and territory has its own separate elections agency to oversee the provincial and territorial elections.\nTerminology.\nIn Canada, the most commonly used colloquial term for electoral district is riding in English, and comt\u00e9 in French (meaning \"county\"). The usage of both terms reflect the fact of electoral divisions being organized around counties in the 1800s. While both these terms were used in England an France and their respective spheres of cultural influence as divisions for feudal or local governance, their usage to denote electoral division is unique to Canada. \nThe word \"riding\", from Old English and Old Norse \"*\u00feri\u00f0ing\", meaning one-third (compare \"farthing\", literally \"one-fourth\"), is an English term denoting the three sub-divisions of Yorkshire each with its own local administration. The origin of ridings stem from the ancient county of Yorkshire being subdivided into the North, West and East ridings when Yorkshire was ruled by the Vikings in the late 9th century. Following the tradition of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, the electoral districts of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada prior to Canadian Confederation in 1867 and of Ontario and Quebec upon confederation were organized based on counties used for local government. Counties with sufficient population for more than one representative were further divided into ridings. \nAt the time of Canadian Confederation, the first schedule of the \"British North America Act\" (in 1982 retitled the \"Constitution Act, 1867\") specifically named Ontario's original 82 electoral districts to be used for both the dominion and provincial elections held that year, with details of how the twelve counties with multiple seats are to be divided. While riding meant one-third, it was applied to counties with two electoral districts as well. In fact, only the Country of York (at Confederation consisted of the area of present day York Region and City of Toronto, excluding the downtown area) were divided into three ridings, the East Riding, West Riding, and North Riding of York, as Yorkshire was divided, possibly by design to pay tribute to its origin. \nIn some of Canada's earliest censuses, in fact, some citizens in the Ontario ridings of Bothwell, Cardwell, Monck and Niagara listed their electoral district as their \"county\" of residence instead of their actual county.\nAlthough the term \"riding\" is no longer used officially to indicate an electoral district, it remains the colloquial term most commonly used in English Canada. Soon after Confederation, the urban population grew\u2014and more importantly, most city dwellers gained the franchise after property ownership was no longer required to gain the vote, and the term was adopted even for urban constituencies. A political party's local organization is generally known as a riding association; the legal term is \"electoral district association\" or EDA at the federal level, and constituency association in most provinces.\nHistorical multi-member districts.\nWhile electoral districts at both the federal and provincial levels are now exclusively single-member districts, multiple-member districts have been used in the past. The federal riding of Ottawa elected two members from 1872 to 1933. The federal riding of Halifax elected two members from the 1867 to 1966 as prescribed in the British North America Act. The federal riding of Victoria elected two members from 1872 to 1903. As well, eight other federal ridings elected multiple (two) members at different times.\nAs well, every province plus the territories of Yukon and North-West Territories at one time or another used multi-seat districts. The use of multi-member districts usually led to the use of plurality block voting but occasionally other forms of voting were used in the multi-seat districts. \nIn the 1914 and 1915 Manitoba elections, Winnipeg was divided into three districts. Each time each district elected two members using a separate contest for each seat. \nFrom 1920 to 1949 Winnipeg used single transferable vote (STV) to elect 10 MLAs in a single city-wide district. And then the city was made into three four-member districts, again with the seats in each district filled through STV. St. Boniface elected two MLAs in 1949 and 1953 through STV.\nAlberta had three provincial districts that at various times returned two, five, six or seven members: see Calgary, Edmonton and Medicine Hat. Prior to 1924 these seats were filled through plurality block voting but from 1924 to 1956 the seats were filled through single transferable voting (STV). The Medicine Hat district reverted to being a single-member district prior to the 1930 election.\nSaskatchewan used multi-member provincial districts from 1921 to 1967. Saskatoon, Regina and Moose Jaw used multiple-member districts from 1921 to 1967. These seats were filled through plurality block voting. District magnitude in each place varied from two to four between 1921 and 1964. Regina was broken up into two two-seat districts and two single-member districts in 1964; Saskatoon was given a fifth seat in the 1964. \nBritish Columbia provincially had a mix of multiple-member districts and single-member districts at the provincial level from 1871 to the 1991 election. Members were elected through plurality (first past the post or plurality block voting). The only exception were the 1952 and 1953 elections, when instant-runoff voting was used. In the case of multi-member districts, separate contests were used to elect separate MLAs in the same district.\nPrince Edward Island had two-member districts at the provincial level from Confederation to the 1996 election. MLAs in each were elected in each district using a separate contest for each seat.\nIn the case of New Brunswick, between 1935 and 1974, some ridings were multi member districts, electing more than one MLA in a district at each election. In 1935, districts ranged in size from two to four members. Block voting was used to fill the seats in each district. \nIn the case of Ontario, Toronto in 1886 and 1890 was a multi-member provincial district. limited voting was used to ensure mixed representation and voter satisfaction. From 1908 to 1914, the four Toronto districts elected two MLAs each, using a separate contest for each seat.\nWith just a few exceptions, voters in multiple-member districts were able to cast as many votes as there were seats in the district (block voting). Usually, under block voting, one single party took all the seats in the district. STV was used in Alberta and Manitoba multi-member districts from 1920s to 1950s. STV almost always produced mixed representation with no one-party sweep. \nAs mentioned, limited voting was used in Toronto when it was covered by a city-wide district in 1886 and 1890.\nIRV was used in all BC districts including the multi-member districts, in 1952 and 1953. This voting system ensured that the winner had the support of a majority of votes in each contest (although in some cases member elected with majority of votes still in play at the end of the vote count, instead of majority of votes cast originally), but the seat/post system and instant-runoff voting election system did not produce proportional representation.\nNaming conventions.\nElectoral district names are usually geographic in nature, and chosen to represent the community or region within the electoral district boundaries. Some electoral districts in Quebec are named for historical figures rather than geography, e.g., Louis-H\u00e9bert, Honor\u00e9-Mercier. Similarly in Alberta, provincial districts mix geographic names with those of historical personages (e.g., Edmonton-Decore after Laurence Decore, Calgary-Lougheed after Peter Lougheed and James Alexander Lougheed). This practice is no longer employed in the other provinces and territories.\nRedistribution - Boundary adjustment for federal electoral districts.\nElectoral district boundaries are adjusted to reflect population changes after each decennial census through a process formally known as redistribution. Depending on the significance of a boundary change, an electoral district's name may change as well. Any adjustment of electoral district boundaries is official as of the date the changes are legislated, but is not put into actual effect until the first subsequent election. Thus, an electoral district may officially cease to exist, but will continue to be represented \"status quo\" in the House of Commons until the next election is called. This, for example, gives new riding associations time to organize, and prevents the confusion that would result from changing elected MPs' electoral district assignments in the middle of a Parliament.\nOn some occasions (e.g., Timiskaming\u2014French River, Toronto\u2014Danforth), a riding's name may be changed without a boundary adjustment. This usually happens when it is determined at a later date that the existing name is not sufficiently representative of the district's geographic boundaries. This is the only circumstance in which a sitting MP's riding name may change between elections.\nRedistribution Occurrences.\nAt Canadian Confederation, the boundaries were defined by the \"British North America Act, 1867\" (renamed in 1982 as the \"Constitution Act, 1867\"). \nSeats allocations to provinces based on the immediate prior decennial census, and consequently the electoral boundaries, were updated in 1872, 1882, 1892, 1903, 1914, 1924, 1933, 1947 and 1952 by statutes titled \"Representation Act, [YEAR]\". \nSeats were further added to provide representation for new provinces at the elections held in 1874 (for Prince Edward Island), 1887 (For the Northwest Territories), 1908 (for Alberta and Saskatchewan) and 1949 (for Newfoundland). \nThe redistribution process was significantly revised by the \"Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act\" passed in November 1964. Non partisan electoral boundaries commissions were to be established to revise the electoral district boundaries in each province. The descriptions of the electoral districts resulting from the process are included in a \"Representation Order\" prepared by the Chief Electoral Officer, given legal effect by proclamation of the Governor-in-Council and published in the Gazette. Due to the lateness of the passage of the legislation and the longer period required for the work of the commissions, the population data from the 1961 census was not reflected until the proclamation of the \"1966 Representation Order\" and did not take effect until the 1968 federal election.\nElectoral boundaries were update by \"Representation Orders\" issued in 1966, 1976, 1987, 1996, 2003, 2013 and 2023.Such changes come into force \"on the first dissolution of Parliament that occurs at least seven months after the day on which that proclamation was issued\".\nSeats allocation on principle of representation by population.\nThe electoral districts for the first federal election in 1867 were prescribed on the principle of representation by population. Quebec was allocated 65 to retain the 65 seats Canada East in the Parliament of the Province of Canada prior to confederation. Seats were allocated to other three provinces by dividing the average population of Quebec's 65 electoral districts to determine the number of seats for other provinces. The \"British North America Act\" also specified that distribution and boundary reviews should occur after each 10 year census. \nThe formula currently in effect for seat allocations to provinces was adopted in 2022. It starts by calculating an electoral quotient, based on the average of the growth rate of the provinces since the time of the last redistribution, the previous redistribution's electoral quotient is then multiplied by this average, and then the population of each individual province is divided by this electoral quotient then rounded up to determine the number of seats to which the province is officially entitled. Additionally, one seat is automatically allocated to each of Canada's three territories.\nDeviations from representation by population.\nTwo special rules are prescribed in the in effect to maintain the number of seats allocated to provinces with declining shares of the national population.\nThe Senatorial Clause, incorporated into the \"Constitution Act, 1867\" (as section 51A) in 1915, prescribed that a province's number of seats in the House of Commons can never be lower than the province's representation in the Senate. \nThe Grandfather Clause, first enacted in the \"Representation Act, 1985\", guarantees each province no fewer seats than it had at a particular point in history. The 1985 legislation was designed to limit rapid increase of the total number of MPs expected under the previous formular. To mitigate the likely corresponding decrease, a special provision was included to set each province's baseline number to their seat count in 33rd Parliament that was in session in 1985. The baseline numbers were further updated to the provinces' seat counts in the 43rd parliament (in session 2019 - 2021) by the government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in 2022 through the passing of the \"Preserving Provincial Representation in the House of Commons Act\" . As a result, the Chief Electoral Officer announced the new allocation of seats in July 2022 with a total 343 seats. \nThe Representation Rule, enacted in 2012 by the \"Fair Representation Act\", further prescribes that no province that had a higher share of seats than its population share in the last redistribution can have its share of seats drop below its population share. In 2008 the government of Prime Minister Stephen Harper proposed an amendment to the process which would have given Alberta, British Columbia and Ontario, the three provinces whose electoral districts have an average size larger than those in Quebec, a total of 32 additional seats by applying Quebec's average of 105,000. In response to the ensuing opposition in Quebec, three new seats were allotted to Quebec as well. The measure was not pass before the 2011 election but was reintroduced and adopted in December 2011 and was put in effect through the 2012 redistribution process.\nA province may be allocated extra seats over its base entitlement to ensure that these rules are met. In 2022, for example, Prince Edward Island would have only received two seats according to the electoral quotient, but through the senatorial clause the province maintained its four seats in the Commons, equal to its four senators. New Brunswick similarly maintained ten seats under the senatorial clause. Quebec would have 71 seats by the electoral quotient alone, but through the historic seats provision the province maintained the 78 seats it had in the 43rd Parliament. Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland and Labrador also maintained seats under the historic seats provision.\nIn practice, the process results in most provinces maintaining the same number of seats from one redistribution to the next, due to the senatorial and historic seats provision. From 1985 onwards, only Ontario, Alberta and British Columbia, traditionally the country's three fastest-growing provinces, had gained seats in a redistribution. All other provinces still held the same number of seats that they held in 1985, and were thus already protected from losing any seats by the other clauses. The 2012 redistribution, which added three new seats in Quebec under the newly added representation rule, was the first and so far only time since 1985 that any of the other seven provinces had gained new seats.\nSome sources incorrectly state that a special provision guaranteeing a certain number of seats to Quebec is also applied. While such a provision was proposed in the failed Charlottetown Accord, no such rule currently exists\u2014Quebec's seat allotment in the House of Commons is in fact governed by the same adjustment clauses as all other provinces, and not by any provisions unique to Quebec alone. However, such provisions have existed at various times in the past. From 1867 to 1946 Quebec was allocated 65 seats, with the other provinces allocated seats based on their size relative to Quebec. The \"amalgam formula\" of 1976 set the number of Quebec seats to 75, which was to be increased by 4 after each decennial census. Other \"large\" provinces (over 2.5 million) would be assigned seats based on their relative population to Quebec. The amalgam formula was applied only once, based on the 1971 census. After the 1981 census it was realized that adding an additional four seats to Quebec every ten years would rapidly inflate the size of the House of Commons, so that formula was abandoned in favour of the 1985 Representation Act.\nBoundary review of federal electoral districts.\nWhen the province's final seat allotment is determined, an independent election boundaries commission in each province reviews the existing boundaries and proposes adjustments. Public input is then sought, which may then lead to changes in the final boundary proposal. For instance, the proposed boundaries may not accurately reflect a community's historical, political or economic relationship with its surrounding region; the community would thus advise the boundary commission that it wished to be included in a different electoral district.\nFor example, in the 2003 boundary adjustment, the boundary commission in Ontario originally proposed dividing the city of Greater Sudbury into three districts. The urban core would have remained largely unchanged as Sudbury, while communities west of the central city would have been merged with Algoma\u2014Manitoulin to form the new riding of Greater Sudbury\u2014Manitoulin, and those east and north of the central city would have been merged with Timiskaming to create the riding of Timiskaming\u2014Greater Sudbury.\nDue to the region's economic and transportation patterns, however, \"Timiskaming\u2014Greater Sudbury\" was particularly opposed by its potential residents\u00a0\u2014 voters in Sudbury were concerned about the weakening of their representation if the city were divided into one city-based riding and two large rural ones rather than two city-based ridings, while the Timiskaming District is much more strongly aligned with and connected to North Bay, to which it has a direct highway link, than to Sudbury. In a deputation to the boundary commission, Sudbury's deputy mayor Ron Dupuis stated that \"An electoral district must be more than a mere conglomeration of arbitrary and random groups of individuals. Districts should, as much as possible, be cohesive units with common interests related to representation. This makes a representative's job of articulating the interests of his or her constituency much easier.\" Instead, in the final report that was passed by the House of Commons, the Sudbury area's existing ridings of Sudbury and Nickel Belt were retained with only minor boundary adjustments, while the Timiskaming riding was merged with Nipissing. Despite the opposition that arose to the 2003 process, however, virtually the same tripartite division of the city was proposed in the boundary adjustment of 2012, although due to concerns around balancing the Northern Ontario region's population against its geographic size, the commission announced in 2013 that it would retain the existing electoral districts again.\nSimilarly, opposition arose in Toronto during the 2012 redistribution process, especially to a proposal which would have divided the Church and Wellesley neighbourhood, the city's primary gay village, between the existing riding of Toronto Centre and a new riding of Mount Pleasant along the length of Wellesley Street. In the final report, the northern boundary of Toronto Centre was shifted north to Charles Street.\nOnce the final report is produced, it is then submitted to Parliament, MPs may offer objections to the boundaries, but the boundary commissions are not compelled to make any changes as a result of the objections.\nBoundary adjustment for provincial and territorial electoral districts.\nThe boundary adjustment processes for electoral districts in provincial or territorial legislative assemblies follow provincial or territorial, rather than federal, law; they are overseen by each province's or territory's own election agency rather than by Elections Canada, and legislated by the provincial legislature rather than the federal parliament. Each province is free to decide its own number of legislative assembly seats, and is not required to comply with the federal quotas that govern its number of parliamentary districts.\nOntario.\nPrior to 1999, provincial electoral districts were defined independently of federal districts; at the time of the 1995 Ontario general election, the province had 103 seats in the Canadian House of Commons but 130 in its provincial legislature. For the 1999 Ontario general election, however, the government of Mike Harris passed legislation which mandated that seats in the provincial legislature would follow federal electoral district boundaries, both reducing the size of the legislature and eliminating the cost of the province conducting its own boundary adjustment process. After each federal boundary adjustment, seats in the legislative assembly would henceforth be automatically realigned to match the federal boundaries at the first subsequent provincial election.\nAlthough most electoral districts in the province still conform to federal boundaries, later amendments to the 1999 legislation have reauthorized the introduction of some differences from the federal map. In the Southern Ontario region, provincial districts remain in precise alignment with the federal ones; in the Northern Ontario region, however, because the region's slower growth would result in the gradual loss of seats compared to the more rapidly growing south, most districts still retain the same boundaries as the federal districts that were in place as of 2003, and are not readjusted to correspond to current federal boundaries. For the 2018 Ontario general election, further, two new uniquely provincial districts were added to increase representation for the far north of the province. As a result, the province currently has 121 seats in the House of Commons, but 124 seats in the provincial legislature. \nFollowing the 2022 federal electoral redistribution, Premier Doug Ford announced his government would break with tradition and not update the provincial boundaries to match those of the new federal ridings, meaning the majority of Ontario's provincial ridings will have different names and/or borders from their federal counterparts following the 2025 federal election.\nPrince Edward Island.\nWhen Prince Edward Island joined Confederation in 1873, it set a fixed formula in which each of the province's three counties was divided into five electoral districts per county, each of which elected two representatives to the provincial legislature. These districts were never adjusted for demographic changes, except in 1966 when the district for the capital city of Charlottetown was divided into two. After 1966, however, the electoral district boundaries again remained unchanged until 1996, when the province adopted new single-member districts. Under the new model, electoral districts are now adjusted every ten years, although most adjustments are geographically modest and the district's name is sometimes, but not always, the only substantive change that actually occurs.\nPolitical issues.\nBecause electoral district boundaries are proposed by an arms-length body, rather than directly by political parties themselves, gerrymandering is not generally seen as an issue in Canada. However, in 2006 the provincial government of Prince Edward Island was accused of gerrymandering after it rejected the independent boundary commission's report and instead proposed a new map that would have seen the cities of Charlottetown and Summerside each gain one additional seat, with two fewer seats allocated to rural areas of the province. The alternate map gave every incumbent member of the governing party a \"safe\" seat to run in, while the original report would have forced some of the party's MLAs to compete against each other in nomination contests.\nThe unequal size of electoral districts across Canada has sometimes given rise to discussion of whether all Canadians enjoy equal democratic representation by population. For example, the four federal electoral districts in Prince Edward Island have an average size of just 33,963 voters each, while federal electoral districts in Ontario, Alberta and British Columbia have an average size of over 125,000 voters each\u2014only slightly smaller than the \"entire\" population of Prince Edward Island.\nConversely, pure representation by population creates distinct disadvantages for some Canadians, giving rise to frequent debate about how to balance the population size of electoral districts against their geographic size. Whereas urban districts, such as Toronto Centre, Vancouver Centre or Papineau, may be as small as or less, more rural districts, such as Timmins-James Bay, Abitibi\u2014Baie-James\u2014Nunavik\u2014Eeyou or Desneth\u00e9\u2014Missinippi\u2014Churchill River may encompass tens or hundreds of thousands of square kilometres. Thus, while Canadians who reside in major urban centres typically live within walking distance of their federal or provincial representatives' constituency offices, a rural resident may not even be able to call their federal or provincial representative's constituency offices without incurring long-distance calling charges.\nFurther, a rural politician who represents dozens of geographically dispersed small towns must normally incur much greater travel expenses, being forced to drive for several hours, or even to travel by air, in order to visit parts of their own district\u2014and may even need to maintain more than one constituency office in order to properly represent all of their constituents. In Ontario, for example, the highest annual expense budgets among members of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario are consistently filed by the representatives for Mushkegowuk\u2014James Bay and Kiiwetinoong, the province's two largest and northernmost electoral districts; both must spend far more on travel to and from Toronto, travel within their own ridings and additional support staff in multiple communities within their ridings than any other legislator in the province.\nDemographics of ridings.\nA 2017 study found, that 41 of the 338 federal ridings at the time, have populations where visible minorities/non-Whites form the majority of the riding. Ontario and British Columbia have the largest number of ridings where visible minorities form the majority. Quebec has the most ridings with less than 5% visible minorities."}
{"id": "732801", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732801", "title": "Lady Sharp of Guildford", "text": ""}
{"id": "732803", "revid": "864270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732803", "title": "Lady Richardson of Calow", "text": ""}
{"id": "732804", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732804", "title": "Polyphasic Sleep", "text": ""}
{"id": "732805", "revid": "39374154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732805", "title": "Ahlfors", "text": "Ahlfors is a Finnish surname. Notable people with the surname include:"}
{"id": "732806", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732806", "title": "Lady O'Neill of Bengarve", "text": ""}
{"id": "732807", "revid": "9571027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732807", "title": "Wolfgang Grams", "text": "Wolfgang Werner 'Gaks' Grams (6 March 1953 \u2013 27 June 1993) was a member of the Red Army Faction (RAF), a German far-left terrorist organization. Grams went underground in 1984 and subsequently belonged to the command level of the RAF's third generation. During an attempt to arrest him by GSG\u202f9, the counter\u2011terrorism unit of the Federal Border Guard (\"Bundesgrenzschutz\", BGS), in Bad Kleinen, he was shot and, according to the findings of the Staatsanwaltschaft Schwerin (public prosecutor's office in Schwerin)\u2014reviewed multiple times by the courts\u2014died by suicide. The exact circumstances of his death remain disputed. Within parts of the political left, the view persists that Grams was deliberately killed by officers involved in the operation.\nLife.\nWolfgang Grams was born in Wiesbaden, West Germany. His father, Werner, had volunteered for service in the \"Waffen-SS\" during the Second World War. After 1945, he and his wife Ruth fled from the eastern territories. Wolfgang also had a brother named Rainer.\nIn his youth, the family lived near the Wiesbaden Army Airfield, and Grams took part in protests against the Vietnam War.\nWhile living in a commune, he was given the nickname \"Gaks.\" After the arrest of Andreas Baader and Gudrun Ensslin, he began visiting Red Army Faction (RAF) prisoners, believing the conditions of solitary confinement to be inhumane.\nGrams's name was later found in the notebook of an RAF member who was killed during an arrest attempt. He was held in custody for 153 days and received compensation in 1980 for his wrongful detention. He subsequently met Birgit Hogefeld, a leading member of the Red Army Faction (RAF), with whom he began a relationship, and the two eventually moved in together.\nOn 15 February 1987, the \"Tagesschau\" on ARD broadcast a bulletin on Grams and Hogefeld. He was described as tall, with blue-green eyes and a distinctive dark skin discoloration on his face. From 1984 onward, he lived underground. He returned home only once, in the autumn of 1990, to meet his parents in the Taunus region.\nLater DNA evidence linked Grams to the 1991 killing of Detlev Karsten Rohwedder.\nBad Kleinen operation.\nShooting and death.\nOn 27 June 1993, officers from the Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) and the GSG\u202f9 counter\u2011terrorism unit of the Federal Border Guard (\"Bundesgrenzschutz\", BGS) were deployed to arrest Grams and Hogefeld at the Bad Kleinen railway station. During the attempted arrest, Grams ran up the stairs toward the tracks, pursued by six GSG\u202f9 officers. He turned and fired ten shots at the officers on the platform, who returned fire. Two officers were injured, and GSG\u202f9 officer Michael Newrzella was struck by four bullets and died on the platform. Grams fell backward onto the track after being shot in the abdomen and remained lying there. In the immediate aftermath, he reportedly attempted to take his own life; he was airlifted to the Medizinische Universit\u00e4t zu L\u00fcbeck, where he died later that day.\nControversy and investigations.\nShortly after the operation, allegations emerged that Grams had not shot himself but had been executed with a close\u2011range shot to the head by a GSG 9 officer. Doubts later arose about the reliability of this claim and of an anonymous witness statement. Independent investigators from Switzerland concluded that the fatal shot had come from Grams' own weapon, suggesting suicide. Some forensic traces had been compromised; for example, the right hand of the deceased had been cleaned to obtain clear fingerprints, removing possible gunshot residue that could have supported a suicide finding. Despite these issues, the Staatsanwaltschaft Schwerin (public prosecutor's office in Schwerin) investigated the allegations and concluded in January 1994 that there were no indications supporting the execution claim. Grams' parents challenged this conclusion in court, but it was upheld by five different courts, including the European Court of Human Rights in 1999.\nPolitical consequences.\nInterior Minister Rudolf Seiters took responsibility for the poor conduct and handling of the operation and resigned in July of that year, as did Chief Federal Prosecutor Alexander von Stahl. Chancellor Helmut Kohl visited the GSG 9 unit, praised Officer Newrzella, and discouraged \"attempts to portray Grams \u2014 who had killed Newrzella \u2014 as a martyr.\""}
{"id": "732808", "revid": "33464454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732808", "title": "Suramin", "text": "Suramin is a medication used to treat African sleeping sickness and river blindness. It is the treatment of choice for sleeping sickness without central nervous system involvement. It is given by injection into a vein.\nCommon side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, skin tingling, and weakness. Sore palms of the hands and soles of the feet, trouble seeing, fever, and abdominal pain may also occur. Severe side effects may include low blood pressure, decreased level of consciousness, kidney problems, and low blood cell levels. It is unclear if it is safe when breastfeeding.\nSuramin was made at least as early as 1916. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. In the United States it can be acquired from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). In regions of the world where the disease is common suramin is provided for free by the World Health Organization (WHO).\nMedical uses.\nSuramin is used for treatment of human sleeping sickness caused by trypanosomes. Specifically, it is used for treatment of first-stage African trypanosomiasis caused by \"Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense\" and \"Trypanosoma brucei gambiense\" without involvement of central nervous system. It is considered first-line treatment for \"Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense\", and second-line treatment for early-stage \"Trypanosoma brucei gambiense\", where pentamidine is recommended as first line.\nIt has been used in the treatment of river blindness (onchocerciasis).\nPregnancy and breastfeeding.\nIt is unknown whether it is safe for the baby when a woman takes it while breastfeeding.\nAdverse reactions.\nThe most frequent adverse reactions are nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and a feeling of general discomfort. It is also common to experience various sensations in the skin, from crawling or tingling sensations, tenderness of palms and the soles, and numbness of hands, arm, legs or feet. Other skin reactions include skin rash, swelling and stinging sensation. Suramin can also cause loss of appetite and irritability. Suramin causes non-harmful changes in urine during use, specifically making the urine cloudy. It may exacerbate kidney disease.\nLess common side effects include extreme fatigue, ulcers in the mouth, and painful tender glands in the neck, armpits and groin. Suramin uncommonly affects the eyes causing watery eyes, swelling around the eyes, photophobia, and changes or loss of vision.\nRare side effects include hypersensitivity reactions causing difficulty breathing. Other rare systemic effects include decreased blood pressure, fever, rapid heart rate, and convulsions. Other rare side effects include symptoms of liver dysfunction such as tenderness in upper abdomen, jaundice in eyes and skin, unusual bleeding or bruising.\nSuramin has been applied clinically to HIV/AIDS patients resulting in a significant number of fatal occurrences and as a result the application of this molecule was abandoned for this condition.\nPharmacology.\nPharmacokinetics.\nSuramin is not orally bioavailable and must be given intravenously. Intramuscular and subcutaneous administration could result in local tissue inflammation or necrosis . Suramin is approximately 99-98% protein bound in the serum and has a half-life of 41\u201378 days average of 50 days; however, the pharmacokinetics of suramin can vary substantially between individual patients. Suramin does not distribute well into cerebral spinal fluid and its concentration in the tissues is equivalently lower than its concentration in the plasma. Suramin is not extensively metabolized and about 80% is eliminated via the kidneys.\nMechanism of action.\nThe mechanism of action for suramin is unclear, but it is thought that parasites are able to selectively uptake suramin via receptor-mediated endocytosis of drug that is bound to low-density lipoproteins and, to a lesser extent, other serum proteins. Once inside parasites, suramin combines with proteins, especially trypanosomal glycolytic enzymes, to inhibit energy metabolism.\nChemistry.\nThe molecular formula of suramin is C51H40N6O23S6. It is a symmetric molecule in the center of which lies a urea (NH\u2013CO\u2013NH) functional group. Suramin contains six aromatic systems \u2013 four benzene rings, sandwiched by a pair of naphthalene moieties \u2013 plus four amide functional groups (in addition to the urea) and six sulfonic acid groups. When given as a medication, it is usually delivered as the sodium sulfonate salt as this formulation is water-soluble, though it does deteriorate rapidly in air.\nThe synthesis of suramin itself and structural analogs is by successive formation of the amide bonds from their corresponding amine (aniline) and carboxyl (as acyl chloride) components. Various routes to these compounds have been developed, including starting from separate naphthalene structures and building towards an eventual unification by formation of the urea or starting with a urea and appending successive groups.\nHistory.\nSuramin was first made by the chemists Oskar Dressel, Richard Kothe and Bernhard Heymann at Bayer AG laboratories in Elberfeld, after research on a series of urea-like compounds. The drug is still sold by Bayer under the brand name Germanin. The chemical structure of suramin was kept secret by Bayer for commercial and strategic reasons, but it was elucidated and published in 1924 by Ernest Fourneau and his team at the Pasteur Institute.\nResearch.\nIt is also used as a research reagent to inhibit the activation of heterotrimeric G proteins in a variety of GPCRs with varying potency. It prevents the association of heteromeric G proteins and therefore the receptors guanine exchange functionality (GEF). With this blockade the GDP will not release from the G\u03b1 subunit so it can not be replaced by a GTP and become activated. This has the effect of blocking downstream G protein mediated signaling of various GPCR proteins including rhodopsin, the A1 adenosine receptor, the D2 receptor, the P2 receptor, and ryanodine receptors. Suramin is also an inhibitor of ABC-type and P-type ATPases, which acts competitively with ATP.\nSuramin was studied as a possible treatment for prostate cancer in a clinical trial.\nSuramin has been studied in a mouse model of autism and in a small phase I/II human trial. Secondary outcomes showed improvements in language, social interaction, and decreased restricted or repetitive behaviors.The safety and activity of low\u2010dose suramin showed promise as a novel approach to treatment of ASD in this small study. Results from a randomized clinical study found no statistically significant effects of suramin (in either 10mg or 20mg doses) versus placebo on boys with moderate to severe autism spectrum disorder.\nSuramin is a reversible and competitive protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTPases) inhibitor, also is the potent inhibitor of sirtuins, purified topoisomerase II and SARS-CoV-2 RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp)."}
{"id": "732809", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732809", "title": "Lady Warwick of Undercliffe", "text": ""}
{"id": "732810", "revid": "20611691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732810", "title": "Chiquimula Department", "text": "Chiquimula is one of the 22 departments of Guatemala, in Central America. The departmental capital is also called Chiquimula. The department was established by decree in 1871, and forms a part of the southeastern region of Guatemala. Physically, it is mountainous, with a climate that varies between tropical and temperate, depending on the location.\nHistory.\nAt the time of Spanish contact, Chiquimula was part of the indigenous kingdom of Chiquimulha, or Payaqui, governed from its capital at Copanti (now Copan, in Honduras). This kingdom also included portions of Honduras and El Salvador. The name Chiquimula is derived from the Nahuatl \"chiquimoltl\u0101n\", from \"chiquimolin\" meaning \"finches\" with the locative suffix \"-tl\u0101n\", to mean \"place of many finches\".\nChiquimula de la Sierra (\"Chiquimula in the Highlands\"), occupying the area of the modern department, was inhabited by Ch'orti' Maya at the time of the conquest. The first Spanish reconnaissance of this region took place in 1524 by an expedition that included Hernando de Ch\u00e1vez, Juan Dur\u00e1n, Bartolom\u00e9 Becerra and Crist\u00f3bal Salvatierra, amongst others. In 1526 three Spanish captains, Juan P\u00e9rez Dard\u00f3n, Sancho de Barahona and Bartolom\u00e9 Becerra, invaded Chiquimula on the orders of Pedro de Alvarado. The indigenous population soon rebelled against excessive Spanish demands, but the rebellion was quickly put down in April 1530. However, the region was not considered fully conquered until a campaign by Jorge de Bocanegra in 1531\u20131532 that also took in parts of Jalapa. The afflictions of Old World diseases, war and overwork in the mines and \"encomiendas\" took a heavy toll on the inhabitants of eastern Guatemala, to the extent that indigenous population levels never recovered to their pre-conquest levels.\nThe modern department was created by executive decree on 10 November 1871. The decree reduced the area covered by the administrative division of Chiquimula by removing that portion that now forms the modern department of Zacapa and part of the department of Izabal.\nGeography.\nChiquimula is located in the southeastern region of Guatemala. It is bordered by the department of Zacapa to the north and the departments of Jalapa and Zacapa to the west. To the south, Chiqimula is bordered by the department of Jutiapa and the republic of El Salvador. To the east, the department is bordered by the republic of Honduras.\nThe departmental capital is the city of Chiquimula, which is from Guatemala City.\nMountains cross the department from north to south, crossing from the border with Jalapa and joining the Sierra del Merend\u00f3n range, which extends into neighbouring Honduras and El Salvador. Chiquimula possesses two drainage basins, one flowing towards the Atlantic Ocean, the other towards the Pacific Ocean. The principal river in the department is the R\u00edo Grande, or Camot\u00e1n River, which flows in from Honduras, before becoming the Jocot\u00e1n River, and flowing into the Motagua River to eventually drain into the Caribbean Sea. In the south of the department, the most important rivers are the Anguiat\u00fa and the Ost\u00faa.\nThe department has numerous mineral deposits, and silver has been mined there since the Spanish colonial period.\nClimate.\nChiquimula is divided into two climatic zones; the municipalities of Concepci\u00f3n Las Minas, Esquipulas, Ipala, Olopa and Quetzaltepeque are temperate, while Camot\u00e1n, Chiquimula, Jocot\u00e1n, San Jacinto, San Jos\u00e9 La Arada and San Juan Ermita are tropical. In the temperate areas, the average temperature is ; in the tropical areas it reaches . Climate change has notably affected the department, with maximum temperatures reaching , and a decrease in rainfall contributing to scarcity of foodstuffs. The lowest recorded temperature between 2009 and 2013 was in 2010; during the same period, relative humidity varied between 74.5% and 76.6%. Average annual precipitation is .\nPopulation.\nAt the 2018 census, the population of Chiquimula was 415,063. In 2002, 83.33% of the population was non-indigenous and 16.67% was indigenous. The majority of the indigenous population are Ch'orti' Maya, with a very small number of Xinka and Garifuna. In 2006, 59.5% of the population of the department was living in poverty, with 27.7% of the population living in extreme poverty (included within the former percentage). Poverty levels tend to be higher in the northern portions of the department, and lower in the south. In 2002, the department of Chiquimula contained 2.7% of the national population, with a population density of , ranking it 10th of 22 departments for population density. In 2013, 25.5% of the population were recorded as illiterate, demonstrating a year-on-year reduction in illiteracy rates over the previous five years.\nIn 2002, 26% of the population of the department lived in urban areas, and 74% in rural areas. There were an average of 5.1 people per household; averaging 4.5 people per household in urban areas and rising to an average of 5.3 people per household in rural areas.\nEthnicity and language.\nBreakdown of population by ethnicity for the whole departmental population, and first language in those aged three and above, as recorded in the 2002 census. \nMortality.\nIn 2013, 2095 deaths were registered in the department, demonstrating a 1% drop on the previous year, and 2.9% of the national total:\nGovernance.\nAs with all Guatemalan departments, the regional government is headed by a governor appointed directly by the president of Guatemala.\nMunicipalities.\nSince its establishment as a department in the late 19th century, Chiquimula has been divided into eleven municipalities.\nEconomy.\nPrinciple products of the department of Chiquimula are cattle, rice, maize, beans, potato, coffee, cacao, peanuts and tropical fruits, ceramics, rope, leather and palm products. Palm handicrafts include the manufacture of a variety of baskets for different purposes.\nTourism.\nEsquipulas is one of the most important centres for religious pilgrimage in Central America, focused upon the Black Christ of Esquipulas contained in the basilica church, which has been venerated due to miracles attributed to the image.\nIn the news 2021.\nIn January 2021, a caravan of between 7,000 and 9,000 migrants from Honduras, who had departed from San Pedro Sula was heading towards the United States and broke through police lines at Vado Hondo, a village near the city of Chiquimula."}
{"id": "732812", "revid": "864270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732812", "title": "Lady Stern", "text": ""}
{"id": "732816", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732816", "title": "Baron Forsyth of Drumlean", "text": ""}
{"id": "732817", "revid": "77506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732817", "title": "Comte de Lautr\u00e9amont (Isidore Ducasse)", "text": ""}
{"id": "732819", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732819", "title": "Thomas Nettleship Staley", "text": "Thomas Nettleship Staley (17 January 1823 \u2013 1 November 1898) was a British bishop of the Church of England and the first Anglican bishop of the Church of Hawaii (called at the time Bishop of Honolulu).\nLife.\nThomas Nettleship Staley was born 17 January 1823 in Sheffield, Yorkshire, England. His father was the Wesleyan minister William Staley. Staley entered Queens' College, Cambridge in 1840, earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1844, and became a Fellow in 1847 after earning his Master of Arts degree. He was tutor at St Mark's College, Chelsea, from 1844 to 1848 and headmaster of St Mark's Practising School from 1848 to 1850 (whilst still lecturing in mathematics at St Mark's College) and then principal of the Collegiate School, Wandsworth, from 1850 to 1861. He married Catherine Workman Shirley in September 1850.\nHe was appointed by John Bird Sumner, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and consecrated on 15 December 1861, at the suggestion of Samuel Wilberforce and Queen Victoria, as the church's first Bishop of Honolulu, for the Kingdom of Hawaii. He departed on 17 August 1862 and arrived in Honolulu in October 1862, several weeks after the death of Albert, Prince of Hawaii, the only son of King Kamehameha IV and Queen Emma Kaleleon\u0101lani Naea.\nHis presence provoked conflict with the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions because they considered him a symbol of ritualism. The fact that he was a bishop also bothered the Calvinists who disliked any kind of religious hierarchy. In a letter to Rufus Anderson of the American Board, the British missionary William Ellis (who had visited the Hawaiian Islands in 1825) wrote that Staley was \"associated with that section of the Church of England from which the greatest number of perverts to Popery has proceeded, and between whom and the Roman Catholics the difference is reported to be slight ...\" Even the American writer Mark Twain criticized Staley as an agent of Britain.\nStaley publicly defended his actions as being non-political, but was considered symbolic of the struggle for influence on the islands. Although he was appointed to the King's Privy Council 1863\u20131864 and Board of Education in 1865, he denied ever giving political advice, or being behind any plots leading to British colonization of the islands. In December 1863 he held the memorial service for Kamehameha IV and later dedicated the Royal Mausoleum where the royal family was reburied. The next King Kamehameha V continued his support and the cornerstone for the Cathedral Church of Saint Andrew was laid in a ceremony in March 1867. On 13 June 1865, his young daughter was baptised at a temporary cathedral in Honolulu.\nStaley began two church-operated Saint Andrew's Priory School for Girls and \u02bbIolani School in Honolulu (originally named for Saint Alban). Staley was appointed Chaplain of Hawaii's Royal Order of Kamehameha I.\nHe corresponded with Charles Darwin regarding the decline in population of the native Hawaiians.\nStaley was frustrated with the political struggle and suggested he would like to resign. He hoped to be replaced by an American Episcopal bishop, but none could be found. He reluctantly retired in 1870 and was replaced by Alfred Willis; he was reported on 25 February to have already tendered his resignation. He resided in Croxall and died on 1 November 1898 at Bournemouth."}
{"id": "732820", "revid": "864270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732820", "title": "Lady Hanham", "text": ""}
{"id": "732821", "revid": "1316664153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732821", "title": "Chiquimula", "text": "Chiquimula is a city in Guatemala. It is the capital of the department of Chiquimula and the municipal seat for the surrounding municipality of the same name.\nIt is located some 174\u00a0km from Guatemala City and within Guatemala known as \"La perla del oriente\" (the pearl of the east).\nHistory.\nIn 1851 during the Battle of La Arada Guatemalan military won over El Salvador and Honduras military forces, which is why Chiquimula was named \"Ciudad Procer\" Hero City.\nPopulation.\nChiquimula is the most populous city of eastern Guatemala. The official population of the city was 37,602, according to the 2002 census. the population had increased to 111,505.\nSports.\nSacachispas football club play in the Liga Nacional de Guatemala, they top-highest football division in Guatemala. Their home stadium is the Estadio Las Victorias.\nThe club has also played in the \"Liga Mayor\", having reached their best position in the 1995\u201396 season, when they were runners-up. They have been playing in the second division since 2000."}
{"id": "732824", "revid": "7745122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732824", "title": "Snes", "text": ""}
{"id": "732826", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732826", "title": "Baroness Howells of Saint Davids", "text": ""}
{"id": "732828", "revid": "3634417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732828", "title": "Nikolay Loba\u00e7evski", "text": ""}
{"id": "732830", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732830", "title": "Lady Howells of Saint Davids", "text": ""}
{"id": "732832", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732832", "title": "Lady Howells of St Davids", "text": ""}
{"id": "732833", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732833", "title": "Lady Howells of St. Davids", "text": ""}
{"id": "732835", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732835", "title": "Lady Massey of Darwen", "text": ""}
{"id": "732836", "revid": "69007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732836", "title": "Chaminade University", "text": ""}
{"id": "732837", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732837", "title": "Baron Carlile of Berriew", "text": ""}
{"id": "732839", "revid": "59002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732839", "title": "Executive agreement", "text": "An executive agreement is an agreement between the heads of government of two or more nations that has not been ratified by the legislature as treaties are ratified. Executive agreements are considered \"politically binding\" to distinguish them from treaties which are \"legally binding\".\nIn the United States, executive agreements are made solely by the President of the United States. They are one of three mechanisms by which the United States enters into binding international obligations. Some authors consider executive agreements to be treaties under international law in that they bind both the United States and another sovereign state. However, under United States constitutional law, executive agreements are not considered treaties for the purpose of the Treaty Clause of the United States Constitution, which requires the advice and consent of two-thirds of the Senate to qualify as a treaty.\nSome other nations have similar provisions with regard to the ratification of treaties.\nIn general.\nExecutive agreements are often used in order to bypass the requirements of national constitutions for ratification of treaties. Many nations that are republics with written constitutions have constitutional rules about the ratification of treaties. The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe is based on executive agreements.\nIn the United States.\nFederal government.\nIn the United States, executive agreements are binding internationally if they are negotiated and entered into under the president's authority in foreign policy, as commander-in-chief of the armed forces, or from a prior act of Congress. For instance, as commander-in-chief, the president negotiates and enters into status of forces agreements (SOFAs), which govern the treatment and disposition of U.S. forces stationed in other nations. The president cannot, however, enter unilaterally into executive agreements on matters that are beyond their constitutional authority. In such instances, an agreement would need to be in the form of a congressional-executive agreement, or a treaty with Senate advice and consent.\nThe U.S. Supreme Court, in \"United States v. Pink\" (1942), held that international executive agreements validly made have the same legal status as treaties and did not require Senate approval. In \"Reid v. Covert\" (1957), while reaffirming the president\u2019s ability to enter into executive agreements, the court also held that such agreements cannot contradict existing federal law or the Constitution.\nThe Case\u2013Zablocki Act of 1972 requires the president to inform the Senate within 60 days of any executive agreement being made. No restriction was placed on presidential powers to make such agreements. The notification requirement enabled Congress to vote to cancel an executive agreement, or to refuse to fund its implementation.\nState government.\nGovernors or other statewide executive officers may sign onto joint agreements with their counterparts in other state governments which may not have the legal backing of their respective legislatures."}
{"id": "732842", "revid": "57939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732842", "title": "54 Alexandra", "text": "54 Alexandra is a carbonaceous asteroid from the intermediate asteroid belt, approximately 155 kilometers in diameter. It was discovered by German-French astronomer Hermann Goldschmidt on 10 September 1858, and named after the German explorer Alexander von Humboldt; it was the first asteroid to be named after a male.\nDescription.\nOn May 17, 2005, this asteroid occulted a faint star (magnitude 8.5) and the event was observed and timed in a number of locations within the U.S. and Mexico. As a result, a silhouette profile was produced, yielding a roughly oval cross-section with dimensions of 160 \u00d7 135\u00a0km (\u00b1 1\u00a0km). The mass of the asteroid can be estimated based upon the mutually perturbing effects of other bodies, yielding an estimate of .\nPhotometric observations of this asteroid during 1990\u201392 gave a light curve with a period of 18.14 \u00b1 0.04 hours and a brightness variation of 0.10 in magnitude. Alexandra has been studied by radar. It was the namesake and largest member of the former Alexandra asteroid family; a dynamic group of C-type asteroids that share similar orbital elements. Other members included 70 Panopaea and 145 Adeona. 145 Adeona was subsequently assigned to the Adeona family, with Alexandra and Panopaea being dropped.\nIn popular culture.\nIn the Swedish film Aniara, it is mentioned that 54 Alexandra is the closest celestial body which the off-course and out-of-control spacecraft will approach before it leaves the Solar System."}
{"id": "732844", "revid": "2304267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732844", "title": "Jutiapa Department", "text": " \nJutiapa Department is a department of Guatemala that borders along El Salvador and the Pacific Ocean. The capital is the city of Jutiapa. As of 2018, it has a population of 488,395. The department is divided into seventeen municipalities. Jutiapa is the country's southeasternmost department and officially the only department with no Mayan descendants native to the region. The main crops are sorghum, tobacco, onion and corn. The climate is dry. An important attraction is the cattle fair. It is at 405 m above sea level.\nThe population is ethnically \"Ladino\" (of European descent &amp; non Mayan-indigenous), though in the northern regions of Jutiapa there are few descendants that once belonged to the Xinca population. The Xinca people were of non-Mayan descent.\nThe coat of arms contains the cornucopia symbolizing Jutiapa as the barn of the East, supplying Guatemala with most of the grain consumed by the people. The horse and the cow represent the cattle; the books stand for educational and cultural advances. In the background sits La Cruz hill, the firm guardian of the departmental chief town, with the tower or antenna of a Jutiapa radio station. Behind the hill float the clouds, the sky and the sun of Jutiapa, \"The Sun City\". This coat of arms is placed on the flag between two laurel branches symbolizing the daily triumphs of the sons of Jutiapa. The flag is mainly white, showing in its center the coat of arms adapted and adroned, between two laurel branches.\nJutiapa was subject to CIA monitoring in the lead-up to the CIA's successful coup d'\u00e9tat deposing the democratically elected Guatemalan President Jacobo \u00c1rbenz."}
{"id": "732846", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732846", "title": "Lady Ashton of Upholland", "text": ""}
{"id": "732848", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732848", "title": "Robert Torricelli", "text": "Robert Guy Torricelli (born August 27, 1951) is an American attorney and former politician. A Democrat, Torricelli served as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from New Jersey's 9th district from 1983 to 1997 and as a United States senator from New Jersey from 1997 to 2003.\nHe is notable for his tenure as chair of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. In September 2002, Torricelli ended his Senate re-election campaign after having been formally admonished by the U.S. Senate in connection with a campaign finance scandal. He later founded Rosemont Associates and Woodrose Properties. Rosemont is an international consulting firm and Woodrose has developed and managed commercial and multi family real estate in New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Florida.\nEarly life and education.\nTorricelli was born in Paterson, New Jersey, the son of Betty (Lotz), a school librarian, and Salvatore Torricelli, a lawyer. He attended boarding school at Storm King School in Cornwall-on-Hudson, New York, where he earned the nickname \"the Torch\" for his aggressive campaigning style, by which he would be referred to throughout his later political career. After graduation from Storm King School, Torricelli attended Rutgers University, New Brunswick where he received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1974. He then earned his J.D. degree in 1977 from Rutgers Law School in Newark. He was admitted to the New Jersey bar in 1978 and later attended Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, earning a master's in public administration in 1980.\nCareer.\nTorricelli was an assistant to the Governor of New Jersey, Brendan Byrne, from 1975 to 1977. In 1978, he served as associate counsel to Vice President Walter Mondale, and managed the Carter-Mondale campaign in the Illinois primary. At the 1980 Democratic National Convention, he served as the director of the Rules Committee.\nU.S. Representative.\nIn 1982, Torricelli ran for U.S. Congress, defeating incumbent Republican Harold Hollenbeck. Torricelli served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1983 until 1997 representing New Jersey's 9th congressional district.\nTorricelli was a resident of New Milford, New Jersey during his first term in Congress.\nTorricelli was Democratic floor leader in the Persian Gulf War discussion regarding the adoption of the \"Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution\" in 1991 and gave the closing speech.\nIn 1988, Torricelli visited Cuba and stated, \"Living standards are not high, but the homelessness, hunger and disease that is witnessed in much of Latin America does not appear evident.\" He sponsored the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 which prohibits U.S. trade with Cuba. Torricelli stated that the act would \"wreak havoc on that island. He defended the legislation as necessary to force democratic refirm on the island and halt Castro\u2019s export of violent revolution in Latin America. After candidate Bill Clinton endorsed the legislation, President Bush signed it.\" Academic Helen Yaffe writes that between Toricelli's 1988 visit and the 1992 Act, he received significant campaign contributions from the Cuban American National Foundation.\nHe was chairman of the House subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere.\nU.S. Senator.\nTorricelli was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1996, defeating Republican Congressman Dick Zimmer by 291,511 votes to obtain the seat vacated by the retirement of Democratic Senator Bill Bradley. It was later found that six donors had made illegal contributions to Torricelli's campaign. In 2000, he headed the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee which regained the Democratic majority in the Senate. Torricelli was responsible for recruiting Senate candidates including Hillary Clinton. As a member of the Senate Finance Committee Torricelli amended the tax code to permit the partial deduction of college tuition for the first time. After 9/11, he amended legislation to authorize a new rail tunnel to NYC.\nA federal criminal investigation into Torricelli was dropped in early 2002. In the summer of 2002, however, Torricelli received a formal letter of admonishment from the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Ethics following an investigation into his alleged receipt of improper gifts from campaign donor David Chang, who had pleaded guilty to violating federal election laws. Torricelli apologized to voters for his behavior and delivered a speech in which he promised to take \"'full personal responsibility'\" for his actions. On September 30, 2002, Torricelli ended his 2002 re-election campaign after Republicans \"successfully made the incumbent's ethics troubles -- stemming from illegal 1996 campaign donations and questionable gifts -- a campaign issue...\" Shortly thereafter, the New Jersey Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the Democratic Party could legally replace Torricelli's name on the ballot with that of former U.S. Senator Frank Lautenberg.\nIn 2007, Torricelli drew public criticism despite federal rules allowing retired officials to give leftover campaign funds to political parties, candidates and charities when his leftover campaign funds, given to the Rosemont Foundation, were not funneled back to his political party. The Rosemont Foundation donates funds to animal welfare charities with particular emphasis on dog shelters.\nDuring his time in the Senate, Torricelli was a member of the Governmental Affairs Committee, the Finance Committee, and the Rules Committee.\nPost-congressional career.\nIn 2003, Torricelli was appointed by the U.S. Federal District Court as special master overseeing the environmental cleanup project of the Mutual Chemical site in Jersey City, New Jersey, owned by the Honeywell Corporation.\nTorricelli founded business and government affairs consulting firm Rosemont Associates. He is a partner in real estate firm Woodrose Properties, which is invested in over 50 multi family or commercial properties in 10 states. Torricelli has represented the Iranian opposition group, the MEK.\nPersonal life.\nTorricelli was married to Susan Holloway and has dated Bianca Jagger."}
{"id": "732849", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732849", "title": "Lord Armstrong-Jones", "text": ""}
{"id": "732851", "revid": "52048118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732851", "title": "Behind Enemy Lines (2001 film)", "text": "Behind Enemy Lines is a 2001 American action war film directed by John Moore in his directorial debut, and starring Owen Wilson and Gene Hackman. The film tells the story of Lieutenant Chris Burnett, an American naval flight officer who is shot down over Bosnia and uncovers genocide during the Bosnian War. Meanwhile, the rear admiral commanding the carrier strike group to which he is assigned is struggling to gain approval to launch a combat search and rescue mission to save Burnett. The plot is loosely based on a 1995 incident involving Scott O'Grady that occurred during the war.\nReleased on November 30, 2001 by 20th Century Fox, \"Behind Enemy Lines\" received generally mixed reviews from critics. It was a box office success, taking in $121.7 million worldwide against a $40 million budget.\nThe film launched a franchise that includes three sequels, all of them direct-to-video.\nPlot.\nDuring the Bosnian War, United States Navy flight officer Lieutenant Chris Burnett and pilot Lieutenant Jeremy Stackhouse are stationed on the aircraft carrier in the Adriatic Sea. Fed up with the battle readiness routine, Burnett is preparing to leave the Navy, and clashes with his commanding officer, Rear Admiral Leslie Reigart. On Christmas, Reigart assigns Burnett and Stackhouse to fly an aerial reconnaissance mission, which goes smoothly until they spot unusual activity in the demilitarized zone. Burnett persuades Stackhouse to fly their F/A-18F Super Hornet off-course for a closer look, unaware that they are photographing Serb Volunteer Guard soldiers burying massacred Bosniak civilians in mass graves. The local Bosnian Serb paramilitary commander, General Miroslav Lokar, is conducting a secret genocidal campaign against the Bosniak population, and orders the jet be shot down.\nAttempting to outmaneuver Lokar's surface-to-air missiles, Burnett and Stackhouse's jet is hit, forcing them to eject. Lokar and his men find the injured Stackhouse, who is executed by Sasha Ivanic, Lokar's personal assassin. Watching nearby, Burnett gives away his position and flees into the wilderness, and Lokar orders his deputy, Colonel Bazda, and Sasha to hunt him down. Burnett radios for help and receives an extraction point from Reigart, who is forced to stand down after Admiral Piquet, the commander of NATO naval forces in the region, warns him that rescuing Burnett in the demilitarized zone risks derailing the peace process. Burnett reaches the extraction point only to be informed that he must continue to another location, miles outside the demilitarized zone, in order to be rescued.\nSpotting Bazda's patrol, Burnett falls into a mass grave, and conceals himself under the corpses until the Serbs move on. To ensure Burnett's rescue, Reigart leaks news of the downed jet to Sky News, angering Piquet. Lokar realizes that the American jet's optical disc with the incriminating photographs may still be in the wreckage. Heading to the new extraction point, Burnett escapes Serb soldiers through a minefield. Pursued by Sasha, he encounters Bosniak guerrillas who offer him a ride to the town of Ha\u010d, which turns out to be a war zone. After the battle, Serb troops believe they have found Burnett's body, but Sasha recognizes a prison tattoo on the body, and determines that Burnett switched uniforms with a dead Serb guerrilla and escaped. To buy more time to catch Burnett, the Serbs present the corpse wearing Burnett's uniform to the media with his head covered, convincing NATO forces that Burnett has been killed, and the mission to rescue him is aborted just as he reaches the extraction point.\nRealizing why the Serbs shot him down, Burnett remembers a statue of an angel near where his ejection seat landed, and returns to find it. He reactivates the seat's rescue beacon, notifying his carrier group that he is still alive, but also alerting the Serbs to his location. Knowing he risks being relieved of command, Reigart prepares a Marine Force Recon task force to rescue Burnett, in defiance of Piquet's orders. On the way to kill Burnett and recover his body, Bazda steps on a landmine; Sasha abandons him to his fate, and the explosion alerts Burnett that someone is approaching. Sasha finds the ejection seat, but is ambushed by Burnett, who, despite taking a shot in the arm, fatally stabs him with the spike of a railroad flare. Lokar arrives with armored vehicles and infantry, but is held off by Reigart's task force. Retrieving the optical disc, Burnett is successfully rescued, much to the dismay of Lokar as his crime is now being exposed.\nThe photographs of the mass grave lead to Lokar's arrest and conviction for war crimes including genocide. Reigart's actions result in him being relieved of command and retiring from service, and Burnett continues his career in the Navy.\nProduction.\nIn December 1996, it was announced 20th Century Fox had greenlit \"Behind Enemy Lines\" from Davis Entertainment based on Scott O'Grady and the Banja Luka incident with David Nutter set to direct. In December 1999, it was announced commercial director John Moore had been hired to direct the film as his feature debut with James Van Der Beek attached to star. By July 2000, it was announced Van Der Beek had been replaced by Owen Wilson.\nThe film was shot at the Koliba Studios in Bratislava, Slovakia and on location in the Slovakian village of H\u00e1j (in the village of H\u00e1j there is also a prop of an angel from the film).\nIn exchange for U.S. military assistance in production, the script of the film was changed at the military's request. was the aircraft carrier featured in the film. Exterior naval footage was filmed on board the carrier. Interiors were filmed on , and on a film set. The release date was originally January 18, 2002, but this was moved up to November 30, 2001.\nHistorical inspiration.\nThe film bears some resemblance to the experiences of former U.S. Air Force Captain Scott O'Grady, who was shot down over Bosnia on June 2, 1995. He survived for six days before being rescued by U.S. Marines. O'Grady, who later became a children's author and motivational speaker, filed suit against both the producers of \"Behind Enemy Lines\" as well as \"Behind Enemy Lines: The Scott O\u2019Grady Story\", a 1998 documentary that Discovery Channel aired on his experience, for defamation of character, accusing the film's producers of invasion of privacy through the misappropriation of his name, likeness and identity, false representation and false advertising, and contending that those involved in both works produced them without his permission, and that the commercial value of his name was damaged by them. O'Grady's complaint indicated that among other things, he was troubled by the disobedience and profanity exhibited by the feature film's main character. O'Grady also accused Fox of using the documentary to promote the feature film and making a film about his ordeal without his permission. The film's characters and events differ from O'Grady's experience: he never entered populated areas, nor did he interact with civilians, and he did not engage in direct combat with enemy soldiers. Also, O'Grady never flew an F/A-18F, but rather an F-16 Fighting Falcon. The case was settled out of court.\nReception.\nBox office.\nThe film made $18.7 million in its opening week in the U.S., landing at the #2 spot and was held off the top spot by \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\". \"Behind Enemy Lines\" eventually grossed $121 million worldwide, of which $79 million was from North America. The budget was estimated to be $40 million.\nCritical response.\n\"Behind Enemy Lines\" received generally mixed reviews from critics. Review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 36% based on reviews from 132 critics, with a weighted average of 4.8/10 and the site's consensus stating \"The plot for \"Behind Enemy Lines\" is more jingoistic than credible, and the overload of flashy visual tricks makes the action sequences resemble a video game.\" Metacritic has assigned the film an average score of 49 out of 100 based on 29 reviews from mainstream critics, indicating \"mixed or average\" reviews. Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade \"B+\" on scale of A to F.\nRoger Ebert gave the film 1\u00bd stars out of four, likening it to a comedy: \"Its hero is so reckless and its villains so incompetent that it's a showdown between a man begging to be shot, and an enemy that can't hit the side of a Bosnian barn.\" Lisa Schwarzbaum in \"Entertainment Weekly\" described the film as one of the \"steel-toed, tin-eared, flat-footed, jingoistic military thrillers\".\nSequels.\n\"Behind Enemy Lines\" was followed by three direct-to-video spiritual successors. \"Behind Enemy Lines II: Axis of Evil\" was released in 2006, \"Behind Enemy Lines: Colombia\" was released in 2009 (this film was co-produced by WWE Studios) and \"SEAL Team 8: Behind Enemy Lines\" was released in 2014.\nTelevision pilot.\nThe Fox network ordered a pilot episode of a series loosely based on the film in February 2017 for consideration as part of the network's 2017\u201318 television season. Fox chose not to order further episodes after the pilot."}
{"id": "732853", "revid": "1208534726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732853", "title": "Lord Gascoyne-Cecil", "text": "Lord Gascoyne-Cecil may refer to:"}
{"id": "732855", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732855", "title": "Baron Gascoyne-Cecil", "text": ""}
{"id": "732857", "revid": "51793972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732857", "title": "Confetti", "text": "Confetti is small pieces or streamers of paper, mylar or metallic material, usually thrown at celebrations, especially parades and weddings. The origins are from the Latin \"confectum\", with \"confetti\" the plural of Italian \"confetto\", small sweet. Modern paper confetti trace back to symbolic rituals of tossing grains and sweets during special occasions, traditional for numerous cultures throughout history as an ancient custom dating back to pagan times, but adapted from sweets and grains to paper through the centuries.\nConfetti is manufactured in multiple colors, shapes and materials. A distinction is made between confetti and glitter; glitter is smaller than confetti (pieces usually no larger than 1\u00a0mm) and is universally shiny. Most table confetti is also shiny. While they are called metallic confetti they are actually metallized PVC. Most party supply stores carry paper and metallic confetti. Confetti is commonly used at social gatherings such as parties, weddings, and Bar Mitzvahs. The simplest confetti is simply shredded paper (see ticker-tape parade), and can be made with scissors or a paper shredder. Chads punched out of scrap paper are also common. A hole punch makes small round chads, and a ticket punch makes more elaborate chads. Most pieces of paper flats will flutter as tumblewings giving long flight times.\nIn the early 21st century the use of confetti as a cosmetic addition to trophy presentations at sporting events became increasingly common. In this case, larger strips of paper (typically measuring 20\u00a0mm \u00d7 60\u00a0mm) in colors appropriate to the team or celebration are used. For smaller volumes of confetti, ABS or PVC \"barrels\" are filled and the confetti is projected via a \"cannon\" (a small pressure vessel) using compressed air or carbon dioxide. For larger venues or volumes of confetti, a venturi air mover powered by carbon dioxide is used to propel significantly larger volumes of confetti greater distances.\nHistory.\nThe throwing of objects at parades is well-documented in Milan from the 14th century. The nobles would throw candies and flowers during the parades, while dames threw eggshells filled with essences and perfumes. Lower-class people mocked the nobles by throwing rotten eggs, and battles among enemy factions or districts became common. In 1597, the city governor Juan Fern\u00e1ndez de Velasco y Tovar imposed a ban on egg-throwing and \"squittaroli\" (spraying liquids in the street) along with other immoral behaviors. The custom disappeared for about a century, re-emerging in the 1700s in the form of thrown small candies, typically sugar-coated seeds. The seeds used were mostly coriander, a common plant in the area: the Italian name for confetti is \"coriandoli\", from the name of the herb.\nThe candies were expensive, and the lower classes often used small chalk balls instead, called \"benis de gess\" (chalk candy). Those were officially defined as the only material allowed to be thrown during the parades in an edict by the Prefect of Milan in 1808, but the battles fought with them in the 1800s became too large and dangerous, with hundreds of people involved, leading to a ban of the chalk pellets. Some circumvented the ban by throwing balls of mud.\nEtymology and Italian \"confetti\".\nThe English word \"confetti\" (to denote Jordan almonds) is adopted from the Italian confectionery of the same name, which was a small sweet traditionally thrown during carnivals. Also known as drag\u00e9e or comfit, Italian \"confetti\" are almonds with a hard sugar coating; their name equates to French \"confit\". The Italian word for paper confetti is \"coriandoli\", which refers to the coriander seeds originally contained within the sweet.\nBy tradition, Italian \"confetti\" (sugar coated almonds) are given out at weddings (white coating) and baptisms (blue or pink coating, according to the sex of the newborn baby) or graduations (red coating), often wrapped in a small tulle bag as a gift to the guests."}
{"id": "732858", "revid": "326639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732858", "title": "Church of Hawaii", "text": "The Church of Hawai\u02bbi, originally called the Hawaiian Reformed Catholic Church, was the state church and national church of the Kingdom of Hawai\u02bbi from 1862 to 1893. It was the ecclesiastical province of the Anglican Communion in Hawai\u02bbi, which later merged into the American Episcopal Church during the establishment of the Republic of Hawaii.\nHistory.\nAs a young prince, King Kamehameha IV had visited England and was impressed by the rich ceremony of the Church of England, compared to the dour simplicity of the American missionaries who educated him as a child. His queen consort Queen Emma had a British grandfather and was brought up in a house of a British Anglican doctor. Their 1856 wedding ceremony included Anglican prayers but had to be performed by the Congregationalist minister.\nIn 1859, Emma wrote to Victoria of the United Kingdom to request a clergyman from the English church. The King's foreign minister, Robert Crichton Wyllie, also made requests through diplomatic contacts. In 1860, Samuel Wilberforce suggested expanding the mission to include a bishop who could organize a new branch. William Ingraham Kip of the Episcopal Church in California also supported the idea, but the American Civil War prevented any help from them. The idea was approved by John Bird Sumner and British Foreign Secretary Lord John Russell. The first Bishop was Thomas Nettleship Staley, consecrated on December 15, 1861.\nThe sending of Staley caused friction with the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions even before he arrived in 1862; making him a bishop concerned the Congregationalists, who opposed any kind of religious hierarchy. Rufus Anderson, of the American Board, became a fierce critic, accusing him of ritualism. The officially chartered name of \"Hawaiian Reformed Catholic Church\" provoked criticism as \"papist\". After Kamehameha IV died, an elaborate funeral service was held which was compared to a Pontifical High Mass. Staley was even attacked by American writer Mark Twain, and others whom he called \"Puritans\".\nThe Church of Hawai\u02bbi became the official royal church, with land donated from the royal family's holdings, not the government. Emma was baptized, followed by a young David Kal\u0101kaua who would later also become king. The Royal Mausoleum was built with a private chapel, which contrasted to the simple unadorned graveyards preferred by earlier missionaries. Observance of the holidays of Christmas and Good Friday was begun. Since Kamehameha IV had died on the feast of Saint Andrew, the first cathedral constructed in Hawai\u02bbi by his brother the new King Kamehameha V was called the Saint Andrew's Cathedral. The cornerstone was laid in 1867, and it became the official residence of the bishop. Two associated schools were also started: Saint Andrew's Priory School for Girls, and a boys' school named for Saint Alban, which eventually became part of Iolani School.\nAfter the overthrow of the monarchy in 1893 and United States annexation in 1898, the Church of Hawai\u02bbi was dissolved and became the Episcopal Diocese of Hawai\u02bbi as territorial jurisdiction was transferred to the Episcopal Church in the United States of America."}
{"id": "732860", "revid": "51617605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732860", "title": "Iamblichus", "text": "Iamblichus ( ; ; ; ) was a Syrian Arab Neoplatonist philosopher who determined a direction later taken by Neoplatonism. Iamblichus was also the biographer of the Greek mystic, philosopher, and mathematician Pythagoras. In addition to his philosophical contributions, his is important for the study of the sophists because it preserved about ten pages of an otherwise unknown sophist known as the Anonymus Iamblichi. \nLife.\nAccording to the and Iamblichus' biographer, Eunapius, Iamblichus was born in Chalcis (later called Qinna\u0161r\u012bn) in Coele, now in northwest Syria. Iamblichus was descended from the Emesene dynasty. He initially studied under Anatolius of Laodicea and later studied under Porphyry, a pupil of Plotinus (the founder of Neoplatonism). Iamblichus disagreed with Porphyry about theurgy, reportedly responding to Porphyry's criticism of the practice in \"On the Mysteries of the Egyptians, Chaldeans, and Assyrians\".\nHe returned to Coele Syria around 304 to found a school in Apamea (near Antioch), a city known for its Neoplatonic philosophers. Iamblichus designed a curriculum for studying Plato and Aristotle, and wrote commentaries on the two which survive only in fragments. Pythagoras was his supreme authority, and he wrote the ten-volume \"Collection of Pythagorean Doctrines\" with extracts from several ancient philosophers; only the first four volumes and fragments of the fifth survive.\nIamblichus wrote the \"Exhortation to Philosophy\" in Apamea during the early fourth century. Considered a man of great culture and learning, he was renowned for his charity and self-denial and had a number of students. According to Johann Albert Fabricius, he died sometime before 333 during the reign of Constantine the Great.\nPhilosophy.\nIamblichus detailed Plotinus' Neoplatonic formal divisions, applied Pythagorean number symbolism more systematically, and (influenced by other Asian systems) interpreted Neoplatonic concepts mythically. Unlike Plotinus, who broke from platonic tradition by positing a separate soul, Iamblichus re-affirmed the soul's embodiment in matter and believed that matter was as divine as the rest of the cosmos.\nCosmology and theology.\nIamblichus placed the Monad at the head of his system, from which emanates the \"Nous\" (intellect, or demiurge) and the \"psyche\". Plotinus represented the \"Nous\" as three stages: objective being, subjective life, and realized intellect. Iamblichus divided them into two spheres: intelligible (the objects of thought) and intellective (the domain of thought).\nIamblichus and Proclus may have introduced a third sphere between the two worlds, separating and uniting them. The identification of \"nous\" with the demiurge in the Neoplatonic tradition was adopted and developed in Christian gnosticism. Augustine of Hippo follows Plotinus, identifying the \"nous\" with \"logos\" (the creative principle) as part of the Trinity.\nIamblichus multiplied the number of divine entities according to universal mathematical theorems. He conceived of gods, angels, demons and heroes: twelve heavenly gods (whose number increases to 36 or 360), 72 other gods proceeding from them, 21 chiefs and 42 nature-gods. His divine realm extends from the Monad to material nature, where the soul descends into matter and becomes embodied in human form. These superhuman beings influence natural events and communicate knowledge about the future, and are accessible with prayers and offerings. Iamblichus posited that numbers are independent, occupying a middle realm between the limited and unlimited. He believed that nature was bound by fate, differing from divine things which are not subject to fate and turn evil and imperfection to good ends; evil was generated accidentally in the conflict between the finite and the infinite.\nWorks.\nOnly a fraction of Iamblichus' books have survived; knowledge of his system is preserved in fragments of writings preserved by Stobaeus and others: notes by his successors (especially Proclus), his five extant books and sections of his work on Pythagoreanism. In addition to these, Proclus attributed to him the \"On the Mysteries of the Egyptians, Chaldeans, and Assyrians\", also known as \"The Theurgia\". Although stylistic and doctrinal differences exist between this book and Iamblichus' other works, it originated from his school at least. Iamblichus also completed a coherent polytheist theological system under the Egyptian pseudonym \"Abammon\".\nReception.\nIamblichus was praised by his followers, and contemporaries credited him with miraculous powers. The Roman emperor Julian, not content with Eunapius' modest eulogy that Iamblichus was inferior to Porphyry only in style, regarded him as second only to Plato and said that he would give all the gold in Lydia for one of his letters. During the 15th- and 16th-century revival of interest in his philosophy, Iamblichus' name was rarely mentioned without the epithet \"divine\" or \"most divine\"."}
{"id": "732861", "revid": "29463730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732861", "title": "Iamblichus (novelist)", "text": "Iamblichus (; 165\u2013180 AD) was an ancient Syrian Greek novelist. He was the author of the \"Babyloniaca\" (, , 'Babylonian Stories'), a romance novel in Greek. If not the earliest, it was at least one of the first productions of this kind in Greek literature.\nLife.\nIamblichus was an Emesene who achieved wide prominence in the 2nd century. He describes himself as being \"descended from the ancient dynasts\", i.e. the Sampsigeramids. Iamblichus had the knowledge of three languages: Assyrian, Babylonian and Greek.\nIamblichus was educated in Babylon, and didn't become acquainted with the Greek language until later in his life. After having lived at Babylon for a number of years, he was taken prisoner and sold as a slave to a Syrian, who, however, appears to have set him free again. He is said to have acquired such a perfect knowledge of Greek that he even distinguished himself as a rhetorician. For a time, he lived in Armenia, when it was ruled by the Roman client king; his fellow Emesene and distant relative Sohaemus.\nThe \"Babyloniaca\".\nIamblichus's novel was about two lovers, Rhodanes and Sinonis. Garmus, a legendary king of Babylon, forces Sinonis to marry him and throws Rhodanes into prison. The lovers manage to escape, and after many singular adventures, in which magic plays a considerable part, Garmus is overthrown by Rhodanes, who becomes king of Babylon.\nAccording to the Suda, it consisted of 39 books, but Photios, who gives a tolerably full epitome of the work, mentions only 16. A perfect copy of the work in manuscript existed down to the year 1671, when it was destroyed by fire. A few fragments of the original work have been preserved. The epitome of Photios and the fragments are collected in Chardon de la Rochette's \"Melanges de Critique et de Philologie\", Vol. 1, pp.\u00a018, 34 and 53, and in Franz Passow's \"Corpus Erotic.\", vol. i.; comp. Fabric. \"Bibl. Graec.\" vol. viii. p.\u00a0152; Gerardus Vossius, \"De Hist. Graec.\" p.\u00a0275, ed. Westermann."}
{"id": "732862", "revid": "22132037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732862", "title": "Peter Carington, Baron Carington of Upton", "text": ""}
{"id": "732863", "revid": "86381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732863", "title": "Dom2", "text": ""}
{"id": "732865", "revid": "7377492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732865", "title": "Lady Boothroyd", "text": ""}
{"id": "732866", "revid": "75188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732866", "title": "Russel Erxleben", "text": ""}
{"id": "732867", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732867", "title": "Swiss national football team", "text": ""}
{"id": "732869", "revid": "6488475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732869", "title": "Faversham Abbey", "text": "Faversham Abbey was a Cluniac style monastery immediately to the north-east of the town of Faversham, in north Kent, England.\nHistory.\nIt was founded by King Stephen and Queen Matilda in 1148. A party of monks from Bermondsey Abbey provided the nucleus and the first abbot.\nAt the Dissolution of the Monasteries, Sir Thomas Cheney assigned the abbey to Thomas Arden and it was considerably destroyed in 1538. Thereafter the site of the abbey came into the possession of the Sondes family and now lies within the grounds of Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School.\nThe Abbey was the burial place of King Stephen, Queen Matilda, and their eldest son, Eustace IV of Boulogne. Their bones were reportedly thrown into the nearby Faversham Creek when the abbey was demolished. Their empty tombs were unearthed in 1964 near what had been the centre of the choir. However, there is a canopy tomb with no contemporary inscription in the nearby Parish Church, where it is said that their bones were re-interred.\nThe Abbey was excavated in 1965 by a team led by the archaeologist Brian Philp. A full plan of the abbey was produced. At around in length, the abbey was shorter than Canterbury Cathedral, but longer than Rochester Cathedral. The cloister and monastic buildings were built on the northern side.\nThe abbey was built from a mix of chalk, flint, ragstone, greensand, and Caen stone. The roofing material appears to have been slate from south Devon with matches to materials obtained from sites near Modbury and Slapton Sands.\nArchaeology.\nIn May, 2019 Kent Archaeological Field School uncovered long by wide Roman building at Abbey Farm. According to the Dr Paul Wilkinson, the building contained broken stone walls. The walls covered huge amounts of box flue tiles, which were used to direct hot air up the indoor walls, glazed terracotta floors, an untouched underfloor with hypocaust heating and tons of ceramic roof tiles. Although the plaster painted from these walls were mostly white, plaster walls coloured with green, red and yellow panels were found in the hot sauna room on the north side of the building. The building was divided into two zones of activity \u2013 a bath house and a room for agricultural activity."}
{"id": "732871", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732871", "title": "Lord Rooker", "text": ""}
{"id": "732872", "revid": "74062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732872", "title": "Robert Guy Torricelli", "text": ""}
{"id": "732873", "revid": "32575524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732873", "title": "Base rate fallacy", "text": "The base rate fallacy, also called base rate neglect or base rate bias, is a type of fallacy in which people tend to ignore the base rate (e.g., general prevalence) in favor of the information pertaining only to a specific case. Base rate neglect is a specific form of the more general extension neglect.\nIt is also called the prosecutor's fallacy or defense attorney's fallacy when applied to the results of statistical tests (such as DNA tests) in the context of law proceedings. These terms were introduced by William C. Thompson and Edward Schumann in 1987, although it has been argued that their definition of the prosecutor's fallacy extends to many additional invalid imputations of guilt or liability that are not analyzable as errors in base rates or Bayes's theorem.\nFalse positive paradox.\nAn example of the base rate fallacy is the false positive paradox (also known as accuracy paradox). This paradox describes situations where there are more false positive test results than true positives (this means the classifier has a low precision). For example, if a facial recognition camera can identify wanted criminals 99% accurately, but analyzes 10,000 people a day, the high accuracy is outweighed by the number of tests; because of this, the program's list of criminals will likely have far more innocents (false positives) than criminals (true positives) because there are far more innocents than criminals overall. The probability of a positive test result is determined not only by the accuracy of the test but also by the characteristics of the sampled population. The fundamental issue is that the far higher prevalence of true negatives means that the pool of people testing positively will be dominated by false positives, given that even a small fraction of the much larger group will produce a larger number of indicated positives than the larger fraction of the much smaller group.\nWhen the prevalence, the proportion of those who have a given condition, is lower than the test's false positive rate, even tests that have a very low risk of giving a false positive \"in an individual case\" will give more false than true positives \"overall\".\nIt is especially counter-intuitive when interpreting a positive result in a test on a low-prevalence population after having dealt with positive results drawn from a high-prevalence population. If the false positive rate of the test is higher than the proportion of the \"new\" population with the condition, then a test administrator whose experience has been drawn from testing in a high-prevalence population may conclude from experience that a positive test result usually indicates a positive subject, when in fact a false positive is far more likely to have occurred.\nExamples.\nExample 1: Disease.\nHigh-prevalence population.\nImagine running an infectious disease test on a population \"A\" of 1,000 persons, of which 40% are infected. The test has a false positive rate of 5% (0.05) and a false negative rate of zero. The expected outcome of the 1,000 tests on population \"A\" would be:\nSo, in population \"A\", a person receiving a positive test could be over 93% confident () that it correctly indicates infection.\nLow-prevalence population.\nNow consider the same test applied to population \"B\", of which only 2% are infected. The expected outcome of 1000 tests on population \"B\" would be:\nIn population \"B\", only 20 of the 69 total people with a positive test result are actually infected. So, the probability of actually being infected after one is told that one is infected is only 29% () for a test that otherwise appears to be \"95% accurate\".\nA tester with experience of group \"A\" might find it a paradox that in group \"B\", a result that had usually correctly indicated infection is now usually a false positive. The confusion of the posterior probability of infection with the prior probability of receiving a false positive is a natural error after receiving a health-threatening test result.\nExample 2: Drunk drivers.\nImagine that a group of police officers have breathalyzers displaying false drunkenness in 5% of the cases in which the driver is sober. However, the breathalyzers never fail to detect a truly drunk person. One in a thousand drivers is driving drunk. Suppose the police officers then stop a driver at random to administer a breathalyzer test. It indicates that the driver is drunk. No other information is known about them.\nMany would estimate the probability that the driver is drunk as high as 95%, but the correct probability is about 2%.\nAn explanation for this is as follows: on average, for every 1,000 drivers tested,\nTherefore, the probability that any given driver among the 1 + 49.95 = 50.95 positive test results really is drunk is formula_1.\nThe validity of this result does, however, hinge on the validity of the initial assumption that the police officer stopped the driver truly at random, and not because of bad driving. If that or another non-arbitrary reason for stopping the driver was present, then the calculation also involves the probability of a drunk driver driving competently and a non-drunk driver driving (in-)competently.\nMore formally, the same probability of roughly 0.02 can be established using Bayes' theorem. The goal is to find the probability that the driver is drunk given that the breathalyzer indicated they are drunk, which can be represented as\nformula_2\nwhere \"D\" means that the breathalyzer indicates that the driver is drunk. Using Bayes's theorem,\nformula_3\nThe following information is known in this scenario:\nformula_4\nAs can be seen from the formula, one needs \"p\"(\"D\") for Bayes' theorem, which can be computed from the preceding values using the law of total probability:\nformula_5\nwhich gives\nformula_6\nPlugging these numbers into Bayes' theorem, one finds that\nformula_7\nwhich is the precision of the test.\nExample 3: Terrorist identification.\nIn a city of 1 million inhabitants, let there be 100 terrorists and 999,900 non-terrorists. To simplify the example, it is assumed that all people present in the city are inhabitants. Thus, the base rate probability of a randomly selected inhabitant of the city being a terrorist is 0.0001, and the base rate probability of that same inhabitant being a non-terrorist is 0.9999. In an attempt to catch the terrorists, the city installs an alarm system with a surveillance camera and automatic facial recognition software.\nThe software has two failure rates of 1%:\nSuppose now that an inhabitant triggers the alarm. Someone making the base rate fallacy would infer that there is a 99% probability that the detected person is a terrorist. Although the inference seems to make sense, it is actually bad reasoning, and a calculation below will show that the probability of a terrorist is actually near 1%, not near 99%.\nThe fallacy arises from confusing the natures of two different failure rates. The 'number of non-bells per 100 terrorists' (P(\u00acB | T), or the probability that the bell fails to ring given the inhabitant is a terrorist) and the 'number of non-terrorists per 100 bells' (P(\u00acT | B), or the probability that the inhabitant is a non-terrorist given the bell rings) are unrelated quantities; one is not necessarily equal\u2014or even close\u2014to the other. To show this, consider what happens if an identical alarm system were set up in a second city with no terrorists at all. As in the first city, the alarm sounds for 1 out of every 100 non-terrorist inhabitants detected, but unlike in the first city, the alarm never sounds for a terrorist. Therefore, 100% of all occasions of the alarm sounding are for non-terrorists, but a false negative rate cannot even be calculated. The 'number of non-terrorists per 100 bells' in that city is 100, yet P(T | B) = 0%. There is zero chance that a terrorist has been detected given the ringing of the bell.\nImagine that the first city's entire population of one million people pass in front of the camera. About 99 of the 100 terrorists will trigger the alarm\u2014and so will about 9,999 of the 999,900 non-terrorists. Therefore, about 10,098 people will trigger the alarm, among which about 99 will be terrorists. The probability that a person triggering the alarm actually is a terrorist is only about 99 in 10,098, which is less than 1% and very, very far below the initial guess of 99%.\nThe base rate fallacy is so misleading in this example because there are many more non-terrorists than terrorists, and the number of false positives (non-terrorists scanned as terrorists) is so much larger than the true positives (terrorists scanned as terrorists).\nMultiple practitioners have argued that as the base rate of terrorism is extremely low, using data mining and predictive algorithms to identify terrorists cannot feasibly work due to the false positive paradox. Estimates of the number of false positives for each accurate result vary from over ten thousand to one billion; consequently, investigating each lead would be cost- and time-prohibitive. The level of accuracy required to make these models viable is likely unachievable. Foremost, the low base rate of terrorism also means there is a lack of data with which to make an accurate algorithm. Further, in the context of detecting terrorism false negatives are highly undesirable and thus must be minimised as much as possible; however, this requires increasing sensitivity at the cost of specificity, increasing false positives. It is also questionable whether the use of such models by law enforcement would meet the requisite burden of proof given that over 99% of results would be false positives.\nA distinct mechanism amplifies this effect in multi-attribute screening. While matching 15 specific pre-determined attributes has probability 10\u221235 (one in 30 decillion), systems that flag individuals matching \"any\" 15 of 1,000 attributes have per-person false alert probabilities around 10\u22124\u2014a difference of 31 orders of magnitude arising from the combinatorics of threshold rules, not low base rates alone. In a city of one million, this produces approximately 226 false alerts; the probability of \"zero\" false alerts is roughly 10\u221299. Such systems exhibit sharp phase transitions at critical population sizes, beyond which failure becomes certain and cannot be prevented through threshold adjustment.\nExample 4: biological testing of a suspect.\nA crime is committed. Forensic analysis determines that the perpetrator has a certain blood type shared by 10% of the population. A suspect is arrested, and found to have that same blood type.\nA prosecutor might charge the suspect with the crime on that basis alone, and claim at trial that the probability that the defendant is guilty is 90%.\nHowever, this conclusion is only close to correct if the defendant was selected as the main suspect based on robust evidence discovered prior to the blood test and unrelated to it. Otherwise, the reasoning presented is flawed, as it overlooks the high prior probability (that is, prior to the blood test) that he is a random innocent person. Assume, for instance, that 1000 people live in the town where the crime occurred. This means that 100 people live there who have the perpetrator's blood type, of whom only one is the true perpetrator; therefore, the true probability that the defendant is guilty \u2013 based only on the fact that his blood type matches that of the killer \u2013 is only 1%, far less than the 90% argued by the prosecutor.\nThe prosecutor's fallacy involves assuming that the prior probability of a random match is equal to the probability that the defendant is innocent. When using it, a prosecutor questioning an expert witness may ask: \"The odds of finding this evidence on an innocent man are so small that the jury can safely disregard the possibility that this defendant is innocent, correct?\" The claim assumes that the probability that evidence is found on an innocent man is the same as the probability that a man is innocent given that evidence was found on him, which is not true. Whilst the former is usually small (10% in the previous example) due to good forensic evidence procedures, the latter (99% in that example) does not directly relate to it and will often be much higher, since, in fact, it depends on the likely quite high prior odds of the defendant being a random innocent person.\nExamples in law.\nO. J. Simpson trial.\nO. J. Simpson was tried and acquitted in 1995 for the murders of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ronald Goldman.\nCrime scene blood matched Simpson's with characteristics shared by 1 in 400 people. However, the defense argued that the number of people from Los Angeles matching the sample could fill a football stadium and that the figure of 1 in 400 was useless. It would have been incorrect, and an example of prosecutor's fallacy, to rely solely on the \"1 in 400\" figure to deduce that a given person matching the sample would be likely to be the culprit.\nIn the same trial, the prosecution presented evidence that Simpson had been violent toward his wife. The defense argued that there was only one woman murdered for every 2500 women who were subjected to spousal abuse, and that any history of Simpson being violent toward his wife was irrelevant to the trial. However, the reasoning behind the defense's calculation was fallacious. According to author Gerd Gigerenzer, the correct probability requires additional context: Simpson's wife had not only been subjected to domestic violence, but rather subjected to domestic violence (by Simpson) killed (by someone). Gigerenzer writes \"the chances that a batterer actually murdered his partner, given that she has been killed, is about 8 in 9 or approximately 90%\". While most cases of spousal abuse do not end in murder, most cases of murder where there is a history of spousal abuse were committed by the spouse.\nSally Clark case.\nSally Clark, a British woman, was accused in 1998 of having killed her first child at 11 weeks of age and then her second child at 8 weeks of age. The prosecution had expert witness Sir Roy Meadow, a professor and consultant paediatrician, testify that the probability of two children in the same family dying from SIDS is about 1 in 73 million. That was much less frequent than the actual rate measured in historical data Meadow estimated it from single-SIDS death data, and the assumption that the probability of such deaths should be uncorrelated between infants.\nMeadow acknowledged that 1-in-73\u00a0million is not an impossibility, but argued that such accidents would happen \"once every hundred years\" and that, in a country of 15 million 2-child families, it is vastly more likely that the double-deaths are due to M\u00fcnchausen syndrome by proxy than to such a rare accident. However, there is good reason to suppose that the likelihood of a death from SIDS in a family is significantly greater if a previous child has already died in these circumstances, (a genetic predisposition to SIDS is likely to invalidate that assumed statistical independence) making some families more susceptible to SIDS and the error an outcome of the ecological fallacy. The likelihood of two SIDS deaths in the same family cannot be soundly estimated by squaring the likelihood of a single such death in all otherwise similar families.\nThe 1-in-73\u00a0million figure greatly underestimated the chance of two successive accidents, but even if that assessment were accurate, the court seems to have missed the fact that the 1-in-73\u00a0million number meant nothing on its own. As an \"a priori\" probability, it should have been weighed against the \"a priori\" probabilities of the alternatives. Given that two deaths had occurred, one of the following explanations must be true, and all of them are \"a priori\" extremely improbable:\nIt is unclear whether an estimate of the probability for the second possibility was ever proposed during the trial, or whether the comparison of the first two probabilities was understood to be the key estimate to make in the statistical analysis assessing the prosecution's case against the case for innocence.\nClark was convicted in 1999, resulting in a press release by the Royal Statistical Society which pointed out the mistakes.\nIn 2002, Ray Hill (a mathematics professor at Salford) attempted to accurately compare the chances of these two possible explanations; he concluded that successive accidents are between 4.5 and 9 times more likely than are successive murders, so that the \"a priori\" odds of Clark's guilt were between 4.5 to 1 and 9 to 1 against.\nAfter the court found that the forensic pathologist who had examined both babies had withheld exculpatory evidence, a higher court later quashed Clark's conviction, on 29 January 2003.\nFindings in psychology.\nIn experiments, people have been found to prefer individuating information over general information when the former is available.\nIn some experiments, students were asked to estimate the grade point averages (GPAs) of hypothetical students. When given relevant statistics about GPA distribution, students tended to ignore them if given descriptive information about the particular student even if the new descriptive information was obviously of little or no relevance to school performance. This finding has been used to argue that interviews are an unnecessary part of the college admissions process because interviewers are unable to pick successful candidates better than basic statistics.\nPsychologists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky attempted to explain this finding in terms of a simple rule or \"heuristic\" called representativeness. They argued that many judgments relating to likelihood, or to cause and effect, are based on how representative one thing is of another, or of a category. Kahneman considers base rate neglect to be a specific form of extension neglect. Richard Nisbett has argued that some attributional biases like the fundamental attribution error are instances of the base rate fallacy: people do not use the \"consensus information\" (the \"base rate\") about how others behaved in similar situations and instead prefer simpler dispositional attributions.\nThere is considerable debate in psychology on the conditions under which people do or do not appreciate base rate information. Researchers in the heuristics-and-biases program have stressed empirical findings showing that people tend to ignore base rates and make inferences that violate certain norms of probabilistic reasoning, such as Bayes' theorem. The conclusion drawn from this line of research was that human probabilistic thinking is fundamentally flawed and error-prone. Other researchers have emphasized the link between cognitive processes and information formats, arguing that such conclusions are not generally warranted.\nConsider again Example 2 from above. The required inference is to estimate the (posterior) probability that a (randomly picked) driver is drunk, given that the breathalyzer test is positive. Formally, this probability can be calculated using Bayes' theorem, as shown above. However, there are different ways of presenting the relevant information. Consider the following, formally equivalent variant of the problem:\nIn this case, the relevant numerical information\u2014\"p\"(drunk), \"p\"(\"D\" | drunk), \"p\"(\"D\" | sober)\u2014is presented in terms of natural frequencies with respect to a certain reference class (see reference class problem). Empirical studies show that people's inferences correspond more closely to Bayes' rule when information is presented this way, helping to overcome base-rate neglect in laypeople and experts. As a consequence, organizations like the Cochrane Collaboration recommend using this kind of format for communicating health statistics. Teaching people to translate these kinds of Bayesian reasoning problems into natural frequency formats is more effective than merely teaching them to plug probabilities (or percentages) into Bayes' theorem. It has also been shown that graphical representations of natural frequencies (e.g., icon arrays, hypothetical outcome plots) help people to make better inferences.\nOne important reason why natural frequency formats are helpful is that this information format facilitates the required inference because it simplifies the necessary calculations. This can be seen when using an alternative way of computing the required probability \"p\"(drunk|\"D\"):\nwhere \"N\"(drunk \u2229 \"D\") denotes the number of drivers that are drunk and get a positive breathalyzer result, and \"N\"(\"D\") denotes the total number of cases with a positive breathalyzer result. The equivalence of this equation to the above one follows from the axioms of probability theory, according to which \"N\"(drunk \u2229 \"D\") = \"N\" \u00d7 \"p\" (\"D\" | drunk) \u00d7 \"p\" (drunk). Importantly, although this equation is formally equivalent to Bayes' rule, it is not psychologically equivalent. Using natural frequencies simplifies the inference because the required mathematical operation can be performed on natural numbers, instead of normalized fractions (i.e., probabilities), because it makes the high number of false positives more transparent, and because natural frequencies exhibit a \"nested-set structure\".\nNot every frequency format facilitates Bayesian reasoning. Natural frequencies refer to frequency information that results from \"natural sampling\", which preserves base rate information (e.g., number of drunken drivers when taking a random sample of drivers). This is different from \"systematic sampling\", in which base rates are fixed \"a priori\" (e.g., in scientific experiments). In the latter case it is not possible to infer the posterior probability \"p\"(drunk | positive test) from comparing the number of drivers who are drunk and test positive compared to the total number of people who get a positive breathalyzer result, because base rate information is not preserved and must be explicitly re-introduced using Bayes' theorem."}
{"id": "732874", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732874", "title": "Baroness Greenfield", "text": ""}
{"id": "732877", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732877", "title": "Lady Greenfield", "text": ""}
{"id": "732878", "revid": "63066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732878", "title": "Lord Sheldon", "text": ""}
{"id": "732879", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732879", "title": "Baron Sheldon", "text": ""}
{"id": "732881", "revid": "2304267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732881", "title": "Guatemala Department", "text": "Guatemala Department is one of the 22 departments of Guatemala. The capital is Guatemala City, which also serves as the national capital. The department consists of Guatemala City, its suburbs and other municipalities.\nThe department covers a surface area of , and had a population of 3,015,081 at the 2018 census."}
{"id": "732883", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732883", "title": "Lord Guthrie of Craigiebank", "text": ""}
{"id": "732885", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732885", "title": "Baron Guthrie of Craigiebank", "text": ""}
{"id": "732889", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732889", "title": "Baroness Howe of Idlicote", "text": ""}
{"id": "732893", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732893", "title": "Lady Howe of Idlicote", "text": ""}
{"id": "732894", "revid": "61431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732894", "title": "T\u00e4\u00f1re", "text": ""}
{"id": "732895", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732895", "title": "Baron Clark of Windermere", "text": ""}
{"id": "732898", "revid": "525927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732898", "title": "Dan Swan\u00f6", "text": "Dan-Erland Swan\u00f6 (born 10 March 1973), also known as Dan \"The Man\" Swan\u00f6, is a Swedish musician and record producer who is currently the vocalist, guitarist, ex-bassist and ex-drummer for the band Nightingale, lately vocalist, keyboardist and drummer for the band Witherscape, as well as the owner of Unisound. He achieved fame as the vocalist and songwriter of progressive death metal band Edge of Sanity.\nAs a multi-instrumentalist he is regarded as influential in the underground melodic death metal, black metal, progressive metal, death metal, progressive rock, and power metal communities. He is known for his progressive rock-influenced songwriting style and his frequent use of both clean and growled vocals.\nCareer.\nSwan\u00f6 has fronted a number of bands, including Edge of Sanity, Brejn Dedd, Unicorn, Infestdead and Route Nine. He has also been a member of Katatonia and Ribspreader, as well as playing drums and lead guitar in death metal band Bloodbath.\nSwan\u00f6 also participated in Steel, a one-off power metal project from Sweden that featured him and members of Opeth. Started in 1996, this collaboration emerged during the recording sessions for Opeth's \"Morningrise\" album. During a jam session, when the band were soundchecking the drums, they hit upon an idea to record a short piece for fun, entitled \"Guitars and Metal\". This gave birth to Steel. Subsequently, they were asked to record more songs, and when they did, the songs which were originally meant for a demo, actually appeared on a limited picture 7-inch EP titled \"Heavy Metal Machine\", released by Near Dark Productions. To this date, it remains their sole record. Featuring only two songs, \"Heavy Metal Machine\" sounds very much like a typical 1980s power metal band, with high-pitched vocals, shredding solos, pounding bass lines and 1980s-style sound effects (police sirens, etc.). However, the record is not meant to be taken as a serious power metal attempt, explaining Swan\u00f6's extremely high-pitched vocals. As a limited release, \"Heavy Metal Machine\" remains a collector's item and is hard to come by.\nHe has also contributed his vocal talents to Arjen Lucassen's Star One project. The two musicians are good friends, with Lucassen contributing guitar parts to Swan\u00f6's Nightingale project. Swan\u00f6 can also be heard on the albums \"Theli\" and \"A'arab Zaraq \u2013 Lucid Dreaming\" by the symphonic metal band Therion. He was a producer and contributing writer of the band Diabolical Masquerade, the now-defunct solo avant-garde black metal band of Anders Nystr\u00f6m a.k.a. Blakkheim (Katatonia, Bloodbath, ex-Bewitched). He also contributed some guitar solos, backing vocals on various Diabolical Masquerade albums, and played the drums on the album \"Nightwork\". He also produced and played the keyboards on the \"Memories from Nothing\" album by Swedish rock band Another Life, released on Vic Records.\nSwan\u00f6 has also released a solo progressive death metal album entitled \"Moontower\", on which he plays all instruments (guitar, bass, drums, keyboard) as well as providing all the vocal work.\nIn July 2007, he auditioned to be lead singer for the Israeli project Amaseffer but lost the part to Mats Lev\u00e9n.\nDuring 2009, Swan\u00f6 re-activated Odyssey, this time performing all instruments by himself. Swan\u00f6 recorded seven of his all-time favourite songs which was released in November 2010 on the album \"Reinventing the Past\", together with the three 1999 tracks as a bonus on Vic Records. His brother Dag played guest lead guitar on the song \"Gypsy\", a Uriah Heep cover.\nIn 2013, Swan\u00f6 released with his new project Witherscape the full studio album \"The Inheritance\", with Ragnar Widerberg as co-member, and the collaboration of, amongst other guest musicians, Novembers Doom's founder Paul Kuhr. It was followed a year after by the EP \"The New Tomorrow\". In 2016, the full studio album \"The Northern Sanctuary\" was released, via Century Media Records like its predecessors, featuring once again Paul Kuhr.\nSwan\u00f6 has a diverse vocal register, encompassing many styles, which include death growls; clean, melodic singing with a warm tone; dark gothic vocals; and thrash shouting.\nAs a peculiarity, he is a left-handed guitarist, but plays on right-handed guitars without reversing the strings.\nIn December 2020 Swan\u00f6 was a guest on episode 8 of the podcast \"Wir und ELANE\", hosted by members of the German band Elane. He spoke about several band experiences, the creation process of the first Nightingale album and the project which was called \"Second Sky\".\nUnisound Studio.\nUnisound Studio (also Unisound Recordings or Gorysound Studio) is a recording studio owned and operated by Dan Swan\u00f6. It used to be in Finsp\u00e5ng, Sweden, but was closed down in around 2001 because of his family. The studio was later relocated into Swan\u00f6's home in \u00d6rebro.\nFamily and work.\nDespite the large amount of releases to his name, Swan\u00f6 worked full-time in a music store (\"Musikb\u00f6rsen\") in \u00d6rebro, near his home in Sweden, rarely doing live performances with any of his bands. He has an older brother, Dag, who plays guitars and keyboards in Nightingale, formerly under the name of \"Tom Nouga\"."}
{"id": "732899", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732899", "title": "Lord Grocott", "text": ""}
{"id": "732900", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732900", "title": "Baron Grocott", "text": ""}
{"id": "732903", "revid": "17777255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732903", "title": "55 Pandora", "text": "55 Pandora is a fairly large and relatively bright asteroid in the asteroid belt. Pandora was discovered by American astronomer and Catholic priest George Mary Searle on September 10, 1858, from the Dudley Observatory near Albany, New York. It was his only asteroid discovery.\nIt is named after Pandora, the first woman in Greek mythology, who unwisely opened a box that released evil into the world. The name was apparently chosen by Blandina Dudley, widow of the founder of the Dudley Observatory, who had been involved in an acrimonious dispute with the director of the observatory, astronomer B. A. Gould. Gould felt that the name had an \"apt significance\". The asteroid shares its name with Pandora, a moon of Saturn.\nThis object is orbiting the Sun with a period of 4.58\u00a0years, a semi-major axis of , and an eccentricity of 0.15. Its orbital plane lies at an angle of 7.2\u00b0 to the plane of the ecliptic. Photometric observations of this asteroid at the Rozhen Observatory in Bulgaria during 2010 gave a light curve with a period of 4.7992 hours and a brightness variation of \"\u0394m\"=0.22 mag. This is consistent with a period of 4.804 hours and an amplitude of 0.24 obtained during a 1977 study. It has a cross-sectional size of ."}
{"id": "732906", "revid": "6285939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732906", "title": "The Gumps", "text": "The Gumps is a comic strip about a middle-class family. It was created by Sidney Smith in 1917, launching a 42-year run in newspapers from February 12, 1917, until October 17, 1959.\nAccording to a 1937 issue of \"Life\", \"The Gumps\" was inspired by Andy Wheat, a real-life person Smith met through his brother. \"Born forty-seven years ago [i.e., in 1890] in Bay St. Louis, Mississippi, Andy Wheat acquired his unusual physiognomy as the result of an infection following the extraction of a tooth, which eventually necessitated the removal of his entire lower jaw. Through Dr. Thomas Smith of Bloomingdale, Illinois, a dentist and a brother of Sidney Smith, Wheat met the cartoonist, who saw in him an ideal comic character. Wheat subsequently had his surname legally changed to \"Gump\" to match the cartoon character. His wife's name is Min, and he has two children, Chester and Goliath, now living in San Francisco, and an Uncle Bim who lives in Georgia. Gump's home is in Tucson, Arizona, but he also has a farm near his birthplace in Mississippi.\"\nCharacters and story.\nThe Gumps were utterly ordinary: chinless, bombastic blowhard Andy Gump (short for Andrew), who is henpecked by his wife, Min (short for Minerva); their sons Chester and baby Goliath (plus an unnamed daughter in college and an unnamed son in the Navy); wealthy Uncle Bim; and their annoying maid Tilda. They had a cat named Hope and a dog named Buck. The idea was envisioned by Joseph Patterson, editor and publisher of the \"Chicago Tribune\", who was important in the early histories of \"Little Orphan Annie\" and other long-run comic strips. Patterson referred to the masses as \"gumps\" and thought a strip about the domestic lives of ordinary people and their ordinary activities would appeal to the average American newspaper reader. He hired Smith to write and draw the strip, and it was Smith who breathed life into the characters. Smith was the first cartoonist to kill off a regular character: His May 1929 storyline about the death of Mary Gold caused a national sensation.\nThe Sunday page also included several toppers over the course of the run: \"Old Doc Yak\" (Dec 7, 1930 \u2013 Feb 25, 1934), \"Cousin Juniper\" (Jan 2, 1944\u20131955) and \"Grandpa Noah\" (1955).\nDebut.\n\"The Gumps\" made its debut in an unusual way. Cartoonist Sidney Smith had previously drawn and written \"Old Doc Yak\", a talking-animal strip that sustained only a brief run. The very last \"Old Doc Yak\" strip depicted Yak and his family moving out of their house, while wondering who might move into the house next. On Thursday, February 8, 1917, the last panel showed only the empty house. On Monday, February 12, 1917, after the Gumps were introduced in the space formerly occupied by \"Old Doc Yak\", they moved into the house formerly occupied by the Yak family. (\"Old Doc Yak\" would reappear as a topper for \"The Gumps\" Sunday page from 1930 to 1934.)\n\"The Gumps\" had a key role in the rise of syndication when Robert R. McCormick and Patterson, who had both been publishing the \"Chicago Tribune\" since 1914, planned to launch a tabloid in New York, as comics historian Coulton Waugh explained:\nReprints.\nHerb Galewitz assembled a selective compilation of the comic strips for the book, \"Sidney Smith's The Gumps\", published in 1974 by Charles Scribner's Sons. However, the strips in this book were assembled in a slipshod manner with no apparent restoration.\nIn 2012, IDW's imprint The Library of American Comics announced a new series reprinting daily strips, in the \"LoAC Essentials\". A \"Gumps\" volume titled \"The Saga of Mary Gold\" (1928\u201329) was published in March 2013.\nTributes.\nA gift from the \"Tribune\" management to Smith was a large statue of Andy Gump, which stood on Smith's Lake Geneva, Wisconsin, estate. After Smith died in 1935, the statue was moved to a city park. In 1943, the statue was acquired by the city of Lake Geneva, but it was destroyed in 1967 during a drunken riot. It was replaced with a new statue, which was stolen in 1989 and again replaced. A plaque honoring Smith was also stolen from Lake Geneva in 1952, but it was later found. The statue is currently on display at the Lake Geneva Museum.\nAndy Gump was the favored comic of Harry S. Truman he enjoyed it so much that he based his license plate off the strip\nHockey great Gump Worsley, born Lorne Worsley, was nicknamed for his resemblance to Andy Gump.\nJazz musician Min Leibrook, born Wilford Leibrook, received his nickname from Andy Gump's wife, Min.\nThe town of Bim, West Virginia is named for Uncle Bim Gump.\nA bunker on the 16th hole of the Hinsdale Golf Club in Clarendon Hills, IL is shaped in the likeness of Andy Gump.\nThe surgical removal of the mandible can result in a dysmorphism referred to as the \"Andy Gump deformity\" due to his character design apparently lacking a jaw.\nAdaptations.\nFilms.\nAs one of the earliest continuity strips, \"The Gumps\" was extremely popular, with newspaper readers anxiously following the convoluted storylines. By 1919, this popularity prompted an interest in film adaptations, and in 1920\u201321, with writing credited to Smith, animation director Wallace A. Carlson produced and directed more than 50 animated shorts, some no longer than two minutes, for distribution through Paramount.\nBetween 1923 and 1928, Universal Pictures produced at least four dozen \"Gumps\" two-reel comedies starring Joe Murphy (1877\u20131961), one of the original Keystone Cops, as Andy Gump, Fay Tincher as Min and Jack Morgan as Chester. Many of these shorts were directed by Norman Taurog, later famed as the leading director of Elvis Presley movies.\nIn the comic strip, Sidney Smith had Andy run for Congress in 1922 and for President in 1924 and in practically every succeeding election, one of the first of many comic strip and cartoon characters to run for office. In 1924, Smith wrote his characters into a novel, \"Andy Gump: His Life Story\", published in Chicago by Reilly &amp; Lee. In 1929, when Smith killed off Mary Gold, she was the first major comic strip character to die, and the \"Chicago Tribune\" had to hire extra staff to deal with the constant phone calls and letters from stunned readers.\nThe strip and its merchandising (toys, games, a popular song, playing cards, food products) made Smith a wealthy man. On his way home from signing a $150,000 a year contract in 1935, he crashed his new Rolls-Royce and died. Patterson replaced Smith with sports cartoonist Gus Edson. In the late 1940s and early 1950s, when actor Martin Landau was a cartoonist, he worked as Edson's assistant on \"The Gumps\", eventually drawing the Sunday strips for Edson.\nRadio.\n\"The Gumps\" launched a craze for continuity strips in newspapers. It also influenced radio and television programming. Radio/TV sitcoms and serialized dramas can all be traced back to \"The Gumps\", as detailed by broadcast historian Elizabeth McLeod in the \"Andy Gump to Andy Brown\" section of her popular culture essay, and her book, \"The Original Amos 'n' Andy: Freeman Gosden, Charles Correll, and the 1928\u201343 Radio Serial\" (McFarland, 2005).\nAt the \"Chicago Tribune\"'s radio station WGN, Freeman Gosden and Charles Correll signed on as staffers in 1925. WGN executive Ben McCanna believed that a dramatic serial could work on radio just as it did in newspapers. \"The Gumps\" first aired on WGN in 1931, then moved to CBS Radio for a four-year run (1934\u20131937), produced and directed by Himan Brown with scripts by Irwin Shaw.\nIn the early programs, Jack Boyle portrayed Andy Gump with Dorothy Denvir as Min, Charles Flynn as their son Chester and Bess Flynn, born 1899 in Tama, Iowa, as Tilda the maid. Flynn scripted for soap operas, including \"Bachelor's Children\", \"Martha Webster\" and \"We, the Abbotts\", and she also portrayed the title role on \"Martha Webster\". In 1935, Wilmer Walter played Andy Gump with Agnes Moorehead portraying Min during the last two years of the series when Lester Jay and Jackie Kelk were heard as Chester."}
{"id": "732909", "revid": "57939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732909", "title": "56 Melete", "text": "56 Melete is a large and dark main-belt asteroid. It is a rather unusual P-type asteroid, probably composed of organic-rich silicates, carbon and anhydrous silicates, with possible internal water ice. The asteroid orbits the Sun with a period of 4.18\u00a0years.\nMelete was discovered by Hermann Goldschmidt from his balcony in Paris, on 9 September 1857. Its orbit was computed by E. Schubert, who named it after Melete, the Muse of meditation in Greek mythology. It was originally confused for 41 Daphne before it was confirmed not to be by its second sighting on 27 August 1871. In 1861, the brightness of 56 Melete was shown to vary by German astronomer Friedrich Tietjen.\nMelete has been studied by radar. Photometric observations of this asteroid at the Palmer Divide Observatory in Colorado Springs, Colorado in 2007 gave a light curve with a period of 18.151 \u00b1 0.002 hours and a brightness variation of 0.15 \u00b1 0.02 in magnitude. This result is in agreement with a period of 18.1 hours independently reported in 1993 and 2007.\nTo date, two stellar occultations by Melete have been observed successfully (in 1997 and again in 2002)."}
{"id": "732910", "revid": "51857186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732910", "title": "Grantland Rice", "text": "Henry Grantland Rice (November 1, 1880 \u2013 July 13, 1954) was an American sportswriter, columnist, and poet from Tennessee known as the \"Dean of American Sports Writers\". He published three books of poetry, and coined the famous phrase that it was not important whether you \u201cwon or lost, but how you played the game.\u201d\nHis writing was known for its elegance and published in newspapers around the country, and broadcast on the radio. He and his writing are among the reasons that the roaring 1920s in the United States are sometimes referred to as the \"Golden Age of Sports\".\nIn 1924, he nicknamed the Notre Dame backfield the \"Four Horsemen\". In 1925 he replaced Walter Camp in selecting college football All-America teams. Rice set out to make heroes of sports figures who impressed him, most notably in baseball Babe Ruth, in boxing Jack Dempsey, in football Red Grange and Knute Rockne, in golf Bobby Jones and Babe Didrikson, and in tennis Bill Tilden.\nEarly life and education.\nRice was born on November 1, 1880 in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, the son of Bolling Hendon Rice, a cotton dealer, and Mary Beulah (n\u00e9e Grantland) Rice. His grandfather Major Henry W. Grantland was a Nashville cotton farmer and a Confederate veteran of the Civil War. As a young teenager, Rice attended military schools\u2014Tennessee Military Institute and Nashville Military Institute. After a year at Wallace University School, Rice attended Vanderbilt University in Nashville.\nAt Vanderbilt, Rice was a brother in the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. He studied Greek and Latin and graduated with a BA degree in classics as part of the class of 1901. Rice was tall and slender, over 6 feet tall and well under 140 pounds. He was a member of the football team for three years, and a shortstop on the baseball team. On the football team, he lettered in the year of 1899 as an end and averaged two injuries a year. He suffered a broken shoulder blade, a broken collar bone, and four broken ribs. On the baseball team, he was captain in 1901. Rice notes that pro baseball took off in the South in his senior year at Vanderbilt.\nSportswriter.\nRice's first job in 1901 was for the \"Nashville Daily News\". From 1902 to 1907 he worked for the \"Atlanta Journal\" and the \"Cleveland News\". Rice married Fannie Katherine Hollis on April 11, 1906; they had one child, the actress Florence Rice.\nHe became a sportswriter for the \"Nashville Tennessean\" in 1907, under owner-publisher Luke Lea. The job at the \"Tennessean\" was given to him by former Sewanee Tigers coach Billy Suter, who coached baseball teams against which Rice played while at Vanderbilt. \nAfterwards he obtained a series of prestigious jobs with major newspapers in the northeastern United States. In 1911 he was hired by the \"New York Evening Mail\", and in 1914 he began his Sportlight column in the \"New York Tribune\". He also provided monthly Grantland Rice Sportlights as part of Paramount newsreels from 1925 to 1954. He is best known for writing for \"Collier's\".\nHe and his writing are among the reasons that the 1920s in the United States are sometimes referred to as the \"Golden Age of Sports\". He became even better known after his columns were nationally syndicated beginning in 1930, and became known as the \"Dean of American Sports Writers\".\nRice's writing tended to be of an \"inspirational\" or \"heroic\" style, raising games to the level of ancient combat and their heroes to the status of demigods. According to author Mark Inabinett in his 1994 work, \"Grantland Rice and His Heroes: The Sportswriter as Mythmaker in the 1920s\", Rice very consciously set out to make heroes of sports figures who impressed him, most notably in baseball Babe Ruth, in boxing Jack Dempsey, in football Red Grange and Knute Rockne, in golf Bobby Jones and Babe Didrikson, and in tennis Bill Tilden. Unlike many writers of his era, Rice defended the right of football players such as Grange, and tennis players such as Tilden, to make a living as professionals, but he also decried the warping influence of big money in sports, once writing in his column:\nRice authored a book of poetry, \"Songs of the Stalwart\", which was published in 1917 by D. Appleton and Company of New York. His most famous poem is \"When the One Great Scorer comes to mark against your name; He marks not that you won or lost, but how you played the game.\"\nBaseball.\nRice coached the 1908 Vanderbilt baseball team. He dubbed the Nashville baseball stadium Sulphur Dell, and declared the 1908 Nashville vs. New Orleans game the \"greatest game ever played in Dixie.\" Rice authored Baseball Ballads in 1910. \nFootball.\nIn 1907, Rice saw what he would call the greatest thrill he ever witnessed in his years of watching sports during the Sewanee\u2013Vanderbilt football game: the catch by Vanderbilt center Stein Stone, on a double-pass play thrown near the end zone by Bob Blake. It set up the touchdown run by Honus Craig that beat Sewanee at the very end for the SIAA championship. Vanderbilt coach Dan McGugin in \"Spalding's Football Guide\"s summation of the season in the SIAA wrote, \"The standing. First, Vanderbilt; second, Sewanee, a mighty good second;\" and that Sewanee halfback Aubrey Lanier \"came near winning the Vanderbilt game by his brilliant dashes after receiving punts.\"\nHe is best known for being the successor to Walter Camp in the selection of College Football All-America Teams for beginning in 1925, and for being the writer who dubbed the great backfield of coach Rockne's 1924 Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team the \"Four Horsemen\" of Notre Dame. A Biblical reference to the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, this famous account was published in the \"New York Herald Tribune\" on October 18, describing the Notre Dame vs. Army game played at the Polo Grounds in New York City:\nThe passage added great import to the event described and elevated it to a level far beyond that of a mere football game. This passage, although famous, is far from atypical. Another famous passage celebrated Red Grange:\nA streak of fire, a breath of flame&lt;br&gt;\nEluding all who reach and clutch;&lt;br&gt;\nA gray ghost thrown into the game&lt;br&gt;\nThat rival hands may never touch;&lt;br&gt;\nA rubber bounding, blasting soul&lt;br&gt;\nWhose destination is the goal \u2014 Red Grange of Illinois!\nRice's all-time All-America backfield in 1939 was Jim Thorpe, Red Grange, Ken Strong, and Ernie Nevers. His all-time line was center Germany Schulz, guards Pudge Heffelfinger and Jack Cannon, tackles Fats Henry and Bill Fincher. Another all-time All-America selection in 1949 by Rice shows a backfield of Sammy Baugh, Thorpe, Grange, and Bronko Nagurski. His all time line was center Schulz, guards Heffelfinger and Herman Hickman, tackles Henry and Cal Hubbard, and ends Don Hutson and Bennie Oosterbaan.\nGolf.\nRice was an advocate for the emerging game of golf in the United States. He became interested in the sport in 1909 while covering the Southern Amateur at the Nashville Golf Club. Rice took lessons from the club's pro Charlie Hall. Rice began playing there regularly and said \"I never dreamed that golf would provide so must grist for my typewriter\". Golfer and athlete Bradley Walker was active in the Nashville Golf Club and became a close friend of Rice.\nRice edited American Golfer magazine beginning in 1920, until 1936. He wrote extensively about golfer Bobby Jones and considered him the greatest-ever putter. When the Augusta National Golf Club was formed, Rice was one of the eighty charter members. Rice is a member of the New York State Golf Association Hall of Fame.\nFirst World War.\nBefore leaving for service in World War I, he entrusted his entire fortune, about $75,000 (the equivalent of around $1.4 million today), to a friend. On his return from the war, Rice discovered that his friend had lost all the money in bad investments, and then had committed suicide. Rice accepted the blame for putting \"that much temptation\" in his friend's way. Rice then made monthly contributions to the man's widow throughout his life.\nRice fought in the 30th Division, lieutenant in the 115th Field Artillery. He spent fourteen months in military service.\nOne source recalls if you wanted to anger Rice, mention prizefighters who avoided fighting in World War I.\nDeath and legacy.\nRice died at the age 73 on July 13, 1954, following a stroke. Rice's autobiography \"The Tumult and the Shouting\", the title a reference to Kipling, was published in 1954. He is interred at Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx, New York City.\nLegacy.\nBy one estimate, Rice wrote more than 22,000 columns and more than 67,000,000 words.\nIn 1951, in recognition of Rice's 50 years in journalism, an anonymous donor contributed $50,000 to establish the Grantland Rice Fellowship in Journalism with The New York Community Trust. In 1954, the Football Writers Association of America (FWAA) established the Grantland Rice Trophy, an annual award presented (from 1954 to 2013) to the college football team recognized by the FWAA as the national champions. The Grantland Rice Bowl, an annual college football bowl game held from 1964 to 1977, was named in his honor, as was the Grantland Rice Award given to the winner. Rice was posthumously awarded the 1966 J. G. Taylor Spink Award by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. The award, presented the following year at the annual induction ceremony at the Baseball Hall of Fame, is given for \"meritorious contributions to baseball writing\".\nAt Vanderbilt, a four-year scholarship named for Rice and former colleague and fellow Vanderbilt alumnus Fred Russell is awarded each year to an incoming first-year student who intends to pursue a career in sportswriting. Recipients of the Fred Russell\u2013Grantland Rice Sportswriting Scholarship include author and humorist Roy Blount Jr.; Skip Bayless of Fox Sports and \"New York Times\" best-selling author, Andrew Maraniss. The press box in Vanderbilt Stadium at Vanderbilt University is dedicated to Rice and named after Rice's prot\u00e9g\u00e9, Fred Russell. For many years, a portion of one floor of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism was designated the \"Grantland Rice Suite\". Grantland Avenue in his hometown of Murfreesboro, Tennessee, was named in his honor.\nRice was mentioned in an \"I Love Lucy\" episode entitled \"The Camping Trip\", and was portrayed by actor Lane Smith, also a native of Tennessee, in \"The Legend of Bagger Vance\". On June 8, 2011, ESPN's Bill Simmons launched a sports and popular culture website titled Grantland, a name intended to honor Rice's legacy. It operated for a little more than four years until being shuttered by ESPN on October 30, 2015, several months after Simmons's departure."}
{"id": "732911", "revid": "20178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732911", "title": "Lady Golding", "text": ""}
{"id": "732914", "revid": "69007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732914", "title": "Wallace R. Farrington", "text": ""}
{"id": "732916", "revid": "63165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732916", "title": "Dr. Bill Frist", "text": ""}
{"id": "732918", "revid": "55876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732918", "title": "Baron Carey of Clifton", "text": ""}
{"id": "732922", "revid": "48262977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732922", "title": "List of Mazda engines", "text": "Mazda makes both piston and Wankel \"rotary\" engines. This page summarizes the various engine families and variations.\nPiston engines.\nAlthough Mazda is well known for their Wankel \"rotary\" engines, the company has been manufacturing piston engines since the earliest years of the Toyo Kogyo company. Early on, they produced overhead camshaft, aluminum blocks, and an innovative block containing both the engine and transmission in one unit. This section summarizes piston engine developments. Note that only Mazda's V-twin, Inline-4, and V6 configurations have made it to market. The company has engineered and completed a W12 engine by 1990 for use in their proposed Amati luxury car brand. Due to financial hardships during that time, the luxury brand was abandoned as well as those two engines.\nV-twin.\nLike several other Japanese makers, Mazda produced V-twin engines for their three-wheeled delivery vehicles of the 1950s. These were also used in some of the tiny keicars of the 1960s. These were essentially motorcycle engines, and were largely superseded by water-cooled straight-4 engines in a few years, except for in the Mazda R360 which remained in production until 1969 especially for the handicapped.\nInline-4.\nMazda's strength since the 1960s has been in its line of Inline-4 engines. Beginning with a tiny 358\u00a0cc kei car engine, one of the smallest ever made, Mazda continues to this day to be a leading developer of this type of engine. \nV6.\nMazda has created three families of in-house V6 engines. As of 2000, they build and use the Ford Duratec V6 design.\nInline-6.\nOffered since 2023 in the CX-90.\nWankel engines.\nMazda is the only producer of successful Wankel engines, positioning them as a prime sports car powerplant. All of Mazda's Wankels are based on their first design of the 1960s, though there have been significant developments over the four decades. After Mazda RX-8 production ceased in 2013, Mazda has carried on with testing prototypes to re-introduce the rotary as part of the \"SkyActiv\" lineup, dubbed SkyActiv R, displacing 1600 cc and featuring direct injection, laser ignition and forced induction."}
{"id": "732925", "revid": "55876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732925", "title": "Baron Wilson of Dinton", "text": ""}
{"id": "732928", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732928", "title": "Baron Boyce", "text": ""}
{"id": "732930", "revid": "279219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732930", "title": "Yakin brothers", "text": ""}
{"id": "732932", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732932", "title": "Baron Cullen of Whitekirk", "text": ""}
{"id": "732934", "revid": "212624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732934", "title": "Kederminster Library", "text": ""}
{"id": "732935", "revid": "31226026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732935", "title": "Tennessean", "text": "Tennessean refers to someone or something of, from, or related to the state of Tennessee, including:"}
{"id": "732936", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732936", "title": "Baron Triesman", "text": ""}
{"id": "732938", "revid": "49210123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732938", "title": "Abraham Yakin", "text": "Abraham Yakin (; 31 July 1924 \u2013 10 May 2020) was an Israeli artist.\nBackground.\nAbraham Yakin was born in Jerusalem. During the Second World War, he joined the Royal Navy and served three years in the Mediterranean Fleet. During this time he became acquainted with the art of Egypt, Greece, France and Italy. After the war, he returned to Jerusalem and joined the Haganah. At the same time, he started his artistic training at Bezalel Academy, where he studied with Jacob Steinhardt and Mordecai Ardon.\nWith Israel's declaration of independence, Yakin joined the Israel Defense Forces. He resumed his studies in 1950, and he had his first exhibition in 1953. In 1957 he married Hannah, an artist who had recently immigrated from the Netherlands. The couple divided their time between raising eight children, teaching art in Jerusalem, and exhibiting extensively in Israel, Europe and the United States.\nIn 1961 Abraham Yakin won the international Adolphe Neumann Prize in Paris. Works of Yakin are in the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, the Musee d'Art Juif, Paris, and several museums in the Netherlands."}
{"id": "732940", "revid": "525927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732940", "title": "Hannah Yakin", "text": "Hannah Yakin (; born \"Hannah van Hulst\"; 3 March 1933, in Amsterdam) is an Israeli artist.\nDuring World War II, Yakin developed her artistic talents, experiencing \"happy times in which necessity bore creativity\".\nAfter the war Yakin went to high school and studied art in Utrecht and in Paris with Paul Colin. In 1956 she emigrated to Israel where she met and married the artist Abraham Yakin. During the first years of her marriage she concentrated chiefly on the themes of pregnancy, birth-giving and motherhood. After 1965 she created two large series of etchings, one about evolution, the other about music and musicians. In 1978 she took up writing, this time in English. Some of her short stories were published in American and Canadian literary magazines. A number of her stories were recently broadcast by the BBC World Service. She has published three illustrated books in small editions, as collector's items."}
{"id": "732941", "revid": "63165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732941", "title": "Nashville Tennessean", "text": ""}
{"id": "732946", "revid": "52081052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732946", "title": "Benjamin Butler", "text": "Benjamin Franklin Butler (November 5, 1818 \u2013 January 11, 1893) was an American major general of the Union Army, politician, lawyer, and businessman from Massachusetts. Born in New Hampshire and raised in Lowell, Massachusetts, Butler was a political major general of the Union Army during the American Civil War and had a leadership role in the impeachment of U.S. president Andrew Johnson. He was a colorful and often controversial figure on the national stage and on the Massachusetts political scene, serving five terms in the U.S. House of Representatives and running several campaigns for governor before his election to that office in 1882.\nButler, a successful trial lawyer, served in the Massachusetts legislature as an antiwar Democrat and as an officer in the state militia. Early in the Civil War he joined the Union Army, where he first gained renown when he refused to return escaped slaves, designating them as contraband of war, an idea that the Lincoln administration endorsed and that played a role in making emancipation an official war goal. Later in the war, he was noted for his questionable military skills and his controversial command of New Orleans, which made him widely disliked in the South and earned him the \"Beast\" epithet. His commands were marred by financial and logistical dealings across enemy lines, some of which may have taken place with his knowledge and to his financial benefit.\nAt the request of General-in-Chief Ulysses S. Grant, President Abraham Lincoln relieved Butler from the posts he held in the Union Army after his failure in the First Battle of Fort Fisher, but he soon won election to the United States House of Representatives from Massachusetts. As a Radical Republican he considered President Johnson's Reconstruction agenda to be too weak, and he advocated harsher punishments of former Confederate leadership and stronger stances on civil rights reform. He was also an early proponent of impeaching Johnson. After Johnson was impeached in early 1868, Butler served as the lead prosecutor among the House-appointed impeachment managers in the Senate impeachment trial proceedings. Additionally, as Chairman of the House Committee on Reconstruction, Butler authored the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1871 and coauthored the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1875.\nIn Massachusetts, Butler was often at odds with more conservative members of the political establishment over matters of both style and substance. Feuds with Republican politicians led to his being denied several nominations for the governorship between 1858 and 1880. Returning to the Democratic fold, he won the governorship in the 1882 election with Democratic and Greenback Party support. He ran for president on the Greenback Party and the Anti-Monopoly Party tickets in 1884, having unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination as well.\nEarly years.\nBenjamin Franklin Butler was born in Deerfield, New Hampshire, the sixth and youngest child of John Butler and Charlotte Ellison Butler. His father served under General Andrew Jackson at the Battle of New Orleans during the War of 1812 and later became a privateer, dying of yellow fever in the West Indies not long after Benjamin was born. He was named after Founding Father Benjamin Franklin. His elder brother, Andrew Jackson Butler (1815\u20131864), served as a colonel in the Union Army during the Civil War and joined him in New Orleans. Butler's mother was a devout Baptist who encouraged him to read the Bible and prepare for the ministry. In 1827, at the age of nine, Butler was awarded a scholarship to Phillips Exeter Academy, where he spent one term. He was described by a schoolmate as \"a reckless, impetuous, headstrong boy\", and regularly got into fights.\nButler's mother moved the family in 1828 to Lowell, Massachusetts, where she operated a boarding house for workers at the textile mills. He attended the public schools there, from which he was almost expelled for fighting, the principal describing him as a boy who \"might be led, but could not be driven.\" He attended Waterville (now Colby) College in pursuit of his mother's wish that he prepare for the ministry, but eventually rebelled against the idea. In 1836, Butler sought permission to go instead to West Point for a military education, but he did not receive one of the few places available. He continued his studies at Waterville, where he sharpened his rhetorical skills in theological discussions and began to adopt Democratic Party political views. He graduated in August 1838. Butler returned to Lowell, where he clerked and read law as an apprentice with a local lawyer. He was admitted to the Massachusetts bar in 1840 and opened a practice in Lowell.\nAfter an extended courtship, Butler married Sarah Hildreth, a stage actress and daughter of Dr. Israel Hildreth of Lowell, on May 16, 1844. They had four children: Paul (1845\u20131850), Blanche (1847\u20131939), Paul (1852\u20131918) and Ben-Israel (1855\u20131881). Butler's business partners included Sarah's brother Fisher and her brother-in-law, W. P. Webster.\nIn 1844, Butler was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society.\nLaw and early business dealings.\nButler quickly gained a reputation as a dogged criminal defense lawyer who seized on every misstep of his opposition to gain victories for his clients, and also became a specialist in bankruptcy law. His trial work was so successful that it received regular press coverage, and he was able to expand his practice into Boston. George Riley worked at his Boston law office.\nButler's success as a lawyer enabled him to purchase shares in Lowell's Middlesex Mill Company when they were cheap. Although he generally represented workers in legal actions, he also sometimes represented mill owners. When he became more politically active, he advocated the passage of a law establishing a ten-hour day for laborers, but he also opposed labor strikes over the matter. He instituted a ten-hour work day at the Middlesex Mills.\nPre-Civil War political career.\nDuring the debates over the ten-hour day a Whig-supporting Lowell newspaper published a verse suggesting that Butler's father had been hanged for piracy. Butler sued the paper's editor and publisher for that and other allegations that had been printed about himself. The editor was convicted and fined $50, but the publisher was acquitted on a technicality. Butler blamed the Whig judge, Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar, for the acquittal, inaugurating a feud between the two that would last for decades and significantly color Butler's reputation in the state.\nButler, as a Democrat, supported the Compromise of 1850 and regularly spoke out against the abolition of slavery. At the state level, he supported the coalition of Democrats and Free Soilers that elected George S. Boutwell governor in 1851. This garnered him enough support to win election to the state legislature in 1852. His support for Franklin Pierce as president, however, cost him the seat the next year. He was elected a delegate to the 1853 state constitutional convention with strong Catholic support, and was elected to the state senate in 1858, a year dominated by Republican victories in the state. Butler was nominated for governor in 1859 and ran on a pro-slavery, pro-tariff platform. He lost to incumbent Republican Nathaniel Prentice Banks.\nIn the 1860 Democratic National Convention at Charleston, South Carolina, Butler initially supported John C. Breckinridge for president but then shifted his support to Jefferson Davis, believing that only a moderate Southerner could keep the Democratic party from dividing. A conversation he had with Davis prior to the convention convinced him that Davis might be such a man, and he gave him his support before the convention split over slavery. Butler ended up supporting Breckinridge over Douglas against state party instructions, ruining his standing with the state party apparatus. He was nominated for governor in the 1860 election by a Breckinridge splinter of the state party, but trailed far behind other candidates.\nCivil War.\nAlthough he sympathized with the South, Butler stated, \"I was always a friend of southern rights but an enemy of southern wrongs\" and sought to serve in the Union Army. His military career before the Civil War began as a private in the Lowell militia in 1840. Butler eventually rose to become colonel of a regiment of primarily Irish American men. In 1855, the nativist Know Nothing governor Henry J. Gardner disbanded Butler's militia, but Butler was elected brigadier general after the militia was reorganized. In 1857 Secretary of War Jefferson Davis appointed him to the Board of Visitors of West Point. These positions did not give him any significant military experience.\n1860.\nAfter Abraham Lincoln was elected president in November 1860, Butler traveled to Washington, D.C. When a secessionist South Carolina delegation arrived there he recommended to lameduck President James Buchanan that they be arrested and charged with treason. Buchanan rejected the idea. Butler also met with Jefferson Davis and learned that he was not the Union man that Butler had thought he was. Butler then returned to Massachusetts, where he warned Governor John A. Andrew that hostilities were likely and that the state militia should be readied. He took advantage of the mobilization to secure a contract with the state for his mill to supply heavy cloth to the militia. Military contracts would constitute a significant source of profits for Butler's mill throughout the war.\nPetitioning for military leadership appointment.\nButler also worked to secure a leadership position should the militia be deployed. He first offered his services to Governor Andrew in March 1861. When the call for militia finally arrived in April, Massachusetts was asked for only three regiments, but Butler managed to have the request expanded to include a brigadier general. He telegraphed Secretary of War Simon Cameron, with whom he was acquainted, suggesting that Cameron issue a request for a brigadier and general staff from Massachusetts, which soon afterward appeared on Governor Andrew's desk. He then used banking contacts to ensure that loans that would be needed to fund the militia operations would be conditioned on his appointment. Despite Andrew's desire to assign the brigadier position to Ebenezer Peirce, the bank insisted on Butler, and he was sent south to ensure the security of transportation routes to Washington. The nation's capital was threatened with isolation from free states because it was unclear whether Maryland, a slave state, would also secede.\n1861: Baltimore and Virginia operations.\nThe two regiments Massachusetts sent to Maryland were the 6th and 8th Volunteer Militia. The 6th departed first and was caught up in a secessionist riot in Baltimore, Maryland on April 19. Butler traveled with the 8th, which left Philadelphia the next day amid news that railroad connections around Baltimore were being severed. Butler and the 8th traveled by rail and ferry to Maryland's capital, Annapolis, where Governor Thomas H. Hicks attempted to dissuade them from landing. Butler landed his troops (who needed food and water), occupying the Naval Academy. When Hicks informed Butler that no one would sell provisions to his force, Butler pointed out that armed men did not necessarily have to pay for needed provisions, and he would use all measures necessary to ensure order.\nAfter being joined by the 7th New York Militia, Butler directed his men to restore rail service between Annapolis and Washington via Annapolis Junction, which was accomplished by April 27. He also threatened Maryland legislators with arrest if they voted in favor of secession, and he seized the Great Seal of Maryland, \"without which no legislation could become law.\" Butler's prompt actions in securing Annapolis were received with approval by the US Army's top general, Winfield Scott, and he was given formal orders to maintain the security of the transit links in Maryland. In early May, Scott ordered Butler to lead the operations that occupied Baltimore. On May 13 he entered Baltimore on a train with 1000 men and artillery, with no opposition. That was done in contravention of Butler's orders from Scott, which had been to organize four columns to approach the city by land and sea. General Scott criticized Butler for his strategy (despite its success) as well as his heavy-handed assumption of control of much of the civil government, and he recalled him to Washington. Butler shortly after received one of the early appointments as major general of the volunteer forces. His exploits in Maryland also brought nationwide press attention, including significant negative press in the South, which concocted stories about him that were conflations of biographical details involving not just Butler but also a namesake from New York and others.\nFort Monroe, Virginia.\nWhen two Massachusetts regiments had been sent overland to Maryland, two more were dispatched by sea under Butler's command to secure Fort Monroe at the mouth of the James River. After being dressed down by Scott for overstepping his authority, Butler was next assigned command of Fort Monroe and of the Department of Virginia. On May 27, Butler sent a force north to occupy the lightly defended adjacent town of Newport News, Virginia at Newport News Point, an excellent anchorage for the Union Navy. The force established and significantly fortified Camp Butler and a battery at Newport News Point that could cover the entrance to the James River ship canal and the mouth of the Nansemond River. Butler also expanded Camp Hamilton, established in the adjacent town of Hampton, Virginia, just beyond the confines of the fort and within the range of its guns.\nThe Union occupation of Fort Monroe was considered a threat to Richmond by Confederate General Robert E. Lee, and he began organizing the defense of the Virginia Peninsula in response. Confederate General John B. Magruder, seeking to buy time while awaiting men and supplies, established well-defended forward outposts near Big and Little Bethel, only from Butler's camp at Newport News as a lure to draw his opponent into a premature action. Butler took the bait, and suffered an embarrassing defeat at the Battle of Big Bethel on June 10. Butler devised a plan for a night march and operation against the positions but chose not to lead the force in person, for which he was criticized. The plan proved too complex for his inadequately trained subordinates and troops to carry out, especially at night, and was further marred by the failure of staff to communicate passwords and precautions. A friendly fire incident during the night gave away the Union position, further harming the advance, which was attempted without knowledge of the layout or the strength of the Confederate positions. Massachusetts militia general Ebenezer W. Peirce, who commanded in the field, received the most criticism for the failed operation. With the withdrawal of many of his men for use elsewhere, Butler was unable to maintain the camp at Hampton, although his forces retained the camp at Newport News. Butler's commission, which required approval from Congress, was vigorously debated after Big Bethel, with critical comment raised about his lack of military experience. But his commission was narrowly approved on July 21, the day of the First Battle of Bull Run, the war's first large-scale battle. The battle's poor outcome for the Union was used as cover by General Scott to reduce Butler's force to one incapable of substantive offense, and it was implicit in Scott's orders that the troops were needed nearer to Washington.\nIn August, Butler commanded an expeditionary force that, in conjunction with the United States Navy, took Forts Hatteras and Clark in North Carolina. That move, the first significant Union victory after First Bull Run, was lauded in Washington and won Butler accolades from President Lincoln. Butler was sent back to Massachusetts to raise new forces. That thrust Butler into a power struggle with Governor Andrew, who insisted on maintaining his authority to appoint regimental officers, refusing to commission (among others) Butler's brother Andrew and several of the general's close associates. The spat instigated a recruiting war between Butler and the state militia organization. The dispute delayed Butler's return to Virginia, and in November he was assigned to command ground troops in Louisiana.\nWhile in command at Fort Monroe, Butler had declined to return to their owners fugitive slaves who had come within his lines. He argued that Virginians considered them to be chattel property, and that they could not appeal to the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 because of Virginia's secession. \"I am under no constitutional obligations to a foreign country,\" he said, \"which Virginia now claims to be.\" Furthermore, slaves used as laborers for building fortifications and other military activities could be considered contraband of war. \"Lincoln and his Cabinet discussed the issue on May 30 and decided to support Butler's stance\". It was later made standard Union Army policy to not return fugitive slaves. This policy was soon extended to the Union Navy.\nNew Orleans.\nButler directed the first Union expedition to Ship Island, off the Mississippi Gulf Coast, in December 1861, and in May 1862 commanded the force that conducted the capture of New Orleans after its occupation by the Navy following the Battle of Forts Jackson and St. Philip. In the administration of that city he showed great firmness and political subtlety. He devised a plan for relief of the poor, demanded oaths of allegiance from anyone who sought any privilege from government, and confiscated weapons.\nHowever, Butler's subtlety seemed to fail him as the military governor of New Orleans when it came to dealing with its Jewish population, about which the general, referring to local smugglers, infamously wrote, in October 1862: \"They are Jews who betrayed their Savior, &amp; also have betrayed us.\"\nPublic health management.\nIn an ordinary year, it was not unusual for as much as 10 percent of the city's population to die of yellow fever. In preparation, Butler imposed strict quarantines and introduced a rigid program of garbage disposal. As a result, in 1862, only two cases were reported.\nCivil administration difficulties.\nSome of his acts were highly unpopular. Most notorious was Butler's General Order No. 28 of May 15, 1862, that if any woman should insult or show contempt for any officer or soldier of the United States, she may be treated similarly to a \"woman of the town plying her avocation,\" i.e., a prostitute. This was in response to various acts of verbal and physical abuse inappropriate for \"respectable\" women, including mocking the funeral cort\u00e8ge of a fallen soldier, spitting in the faces of U.S. officers, pouring chamber pots full of human excrement on patrolling U.S. soldiers, and, in one notorious case, pouring urine on Union Navy commander Admiral David Farragut.\n\"Butler's 'Woman Order' was immediately effective. Insults by word, look or gesture abruptly ceased... Throughout the South, however, the Woman Order evoked a universal shout of execration\". Butler's insistence on prosecuting the woman as any other person \"aiding the Confederacy\" provoked angry jeers from white residents of New Orleans, who amplified a narrative that he used his power to engage in the petty looting of New Orleanians. \"[F]or years after the Civil War steamships plying the lower Mississippi were furnished with chamber pots bearing the likeness of 'Beast Butler.\nHe was nicknamed \"Butler the Beast\" by Confederate General P. G. T. Beauregard (despite Beauregard's leaving his wife under Butler's personal care) or alternatively \"Spoons Butler\", the latter nickname deriving primarily from an incident in which Butler seized a 38-piece set of silverware from a New Orleans woman who attempted to cross Union lines while using a pass that permitted her to carry nothing more than the clothing on her person.\nCotton seizures.\nShortly after the Confiscation Act of 1862 became effective in September, Butler increasingly relied upon it as a means of grabbing cotton. Since the Act permitted confiscation of property owned by anyone \"aiding the Confederacy,\" Butler reversed his earlier policy of encouraging trade by refusing to confiscate cotton brought into New Orleans for sale. First, he conducted a census in which 4,000 respondents failing to pledge loyalty to the Union were banished. Their property was seized and sold at low auction prices in which his brother Andrew was often the prime buyer. Next, the general sent expeditions into the countryside with no military purpose other than to confiscate cotton from residents who were assumed to be disloyal. Once brought into New Orleans, the cotton would be similarly sold in rigged auctions. To maintain correct appearances, auction proceeds were dutifully held for the benefit of \"just claimants\", but the Butler consortium still ended up owning the cotton at bargain prices. Always inventive of new terminology to achieve his ends, Butler sequestered, or made vulnerable to confiscation, such \"properties\" in all of Louisiana beyond parishes surrounding New Orleans.\nCensorship of newspapers.\nButler censored New Orleans newspapers. When William Seymour, the editor of the \"New-Orleans Commercial Bulletin\", asked Butler what would happen if the newspaper ignored his censorship, an angry Butler reportedly stated, \"I am the military governor of this state \u2014 the supreme power \u2014 you cannot disregard my order, Sir. By God, he that sins against me, sins against the Holy Ghost.\" When Seymour published a favorable obituary of his father, who had been killed serving in the Confederate army in Virginia, Butler confiscated the newspaper and imprisoned Seymour for three months.\nExecution of William Mumford.\nOn June 7, 1862, Butler ordered the execution of William B. Mumford for tearing down a United States flag placed by Admiral Farragut on the United States Mint in New Orleans. In his memoirs, Butler maintained that \"[a] party headed by Mumford had torn down the flag, dragged it through the streets and spit on it, and trampled on it until it was torn to pieces. It was then distributed among the rabble, and each one thought it a high honor to get a piece of it and wear it.\" Butler added that these actions were \"against the laws of war and his country.\"\nBefore Mumford was executed, Butler permitted him to make a speech for as long as he wished, and Mumford defended his actions by claiming that he was acting out of a high sense of patriotism. Most, including Mumford and his family, expected Butler to pardon him. The general refused to do so, but promised to care for his family if necessary. (After the war, Butler fulfilled his promise by paying off a mortgage on Mumford's widow's house and helping her find government employment.) For the execution and General Order No. 28, he was denounced (December 1862) by Confederate President Jefferson Davis in General Order 111 as a felon deserving capital punishment, who, if captured, should be \"reserved for execution\".\nRecall.\nAlthough Butler's governance of New Orleans was popular in the North, where it was seen as a successful stand against recalcitrant secessionists, some of his actions, notably those against the foreign consuls, concerned Lincoln, who authorized his recall in December 1862. Butler was replaced by Nathaniel P. Banks. The necessity of taking sometimes radical actions and the support he received in Radical Republican circles drove Butler to change political allegiance, and he joined the Republican Party. He also sought revenge against the more moderate Secretary of State Seward, whom he believed to be responsible for his eventual recall.\nButler continues to be a disliked and controversial figure in New Orleans and the rest of the South.\nLouisiana Native Guard.\nOn September 27, 1862, Butler formed the first African-American regiment in the US Army, the 1st Louisiana Native Guard, and commissioned 30 officers to command it at the company level. This was highly unusual, as most USCT regiments were commanded by white officers only. \"Better soldiers never shouldered a musket,\" Butler wrote, \"I observed a very remarkable trait about them. They learned to handle arms and to march more easily than intelligent white men. My drillmaster could teach a regiment of Negroes that much of the art of war sooner than he could have taught the same number of students from Harvard or Yale.\" The regiment would serve Butler effectively during the Siege of Port Hudson. Butler organized three regiments totaling 3,122 soldiers and officers.\nArmy of the James.\nButler's popularity with the Radicals meant that Lincoln could not readily deny him a new posting. Lincoln considered sending him to a position in the Mississippi River area in early 1863, and categorically refused to send him back to New Orleans. In November 1863, he finally gave Butler command of the Department of Virginia and North Carolina based in Norfolk, Virginia. In January 1864, Butler played a pivotal role in the creation of six regiments of U.S. Volunteers recruited from among Confederate prisoners of war (\"Galvanized Yankees\") for duty on the western frontier. In May, the forces under his command were designated the Army of the James. On November 4, 1864, Butler arrived in New York City with 3,500 troops of the Army of the James. Secretary of War Edwin Stanton had \"requested that Grant send troops to New York City to help oversee the election there. Stanton's concern arose from the city's perennial political and racial divisions, which had erupted during the 1863 draft riots,\" and because of fear of Confederates coming from Canada to burn the city on Election Day. Grant selected Butler for the assignment. \"Even though he knew nothing about the plot [to burn the city] and did nothing to prevent it, Butler's mere presence with his 3,500 troops\" demoralized the leaders of the conspiracy, who postponed it until November 25, when it failed.\nThe Army of the James also included several regiments of United States Colored Troops. These troops saw combat in the Bermuda Hundred campaign (see below). At the Battle of Chaffin's Farm (sometimes also called the Battle of New Market Heights), the USCT troops performed extremely well. The 38th USCT defeated a more powerful force despite intense fire, heavy casualties, and terrain obstacles. Butler awarded the Medal of Honor to several men of the 38th USCT. He also ordered a special medal designed and struck, which was awarded to 200 African-American soldiers who had served with distinction in the engagement. This was later called the Butler Medal.\nBermuda Hundred campaign.\nIn the spring of 1864, the Army of the James was directed to land at Bermuda Hundred on the James River, south of Richmond, and from there attack Petersburg. This would sever the rail links supplying Richmond, and force the Confederates to abandon the city. In spite of Grant's low opinion of Butler's military skills, he was given command of the operation.\nButler's force landed on May 5, when Petersburg was almost undefended, but Butler became unnerved by the presence of a handful of Confederate militia and home guards. While he dithered, the Confederates assembled a substantial force under General P. G. T. Beauregard. On 13 May, Butler's advance toward Richmond was repulsed. On May 16, the Confederates drove Butler's force back to Bermuda Hundred, bottling up the Union troops in a loop of the James River. Both sides entrenched; the Union troops were safe but impotent, and Beauregard sent most of his troops as reinforcements to Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. Had Butler been more aggressive in early May, he might have taken Petersburg or even Richmond itself and ended the war a year early, although his two West Pointer corps commanders Maj. Gen \"Baldly\" Smith and Quincy Gilmore also did not perform well or make up for Butler's limitations as a general.\nDespite this fiasco, Butler remained in command of the Army of the James.\nFort Fisher and final recall.\nAlthough Grant had largely been successful in removing incompetent political generals from service, Butler could not be easily gotten rid of. As a prominent Radical Republican, Butler was a potential replacement for Lincoln as the party's presidential nominee. Lincoln had even asked Butler to be the 1864 nominee for vice president, as did Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Chase, who sought to replace Lincoln as president. In reply to Lincoln's offer, Butler said, \"Tell him ... I would not quit the field [resign as major general] to be Vice-President, even with himself as President, unless he will give me bond with sureties ... that he will die or resign within three months after his inauguration. Ask him what he thinks I have done to deserve the punishment ... of being made to sit as presiding officer over the Senate, to listen for four years to debates more or less stupid, in which I can take no part or say a word...\"\nThere was no good place to put Butler; sending him to Missouri or Kentucky would likely end in disaster, so it was considered safer to leave him where he was in Virginia. More worrying was that Butler was one of the highest ranking volunteer major generals in the Union army; next to Grant himself, he was the ranking field officer in the Eastern theater, and command of the Army of the Potomac would default to him in Grant's absence. For that reason, Grant remained with the army as much as possible and only made trips away from the front when it was absolutely necessary.\nIn December, troops from the Army of the James were sent to attack Fort Fisher in North Carolina with Butler in command. Butler devised a scheme to breach the defenses with a boat loaded with gunpowder, which failed completely. He then declared that Fort Fisher was impregnable and withdrew his troops without authorization. However, Admiral David Dixon Porter (commander of the naval element of the expedition) informed Grant that it could be taken easily if anyone competent were put in charge.\nThis mismanagement finally led to his recall by Grant in early 1865. As Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton was not in Washington at the time, Grant appealed directly to Lincoln for permission to terminate Butler, noting \"there is a lack of confidence felt in [Butler's] military ability\". Grant also voiced his suspicions about corruption going on in Butler's department, including smuggling of supplies to Lee's army, and that Butler arbitrarily arrested anyone who noticed what was going on, although, due to Butler's formidable political connections, nothing came of Grant's complaints. By this point, the presidential election was over, so the administration no longer had to be concerned about Butler's running for president, and, in General Order Number 1, Lincoln relieved him from command of the Department of North Carolina and Virginia and ordered him to report to Lowell, Massachusetts. Grant informed Butler of his recall on January 8, 1865, and named Major General Edward O. C. Ord to replace him as commander of the Army of the James. \"Embarrassed and outraged, Butler broke off all relations with Grant and set out to destroy him.\" In 1867, when it seemed that Grant might run for president, Butler \"employed detectives in an effort to prove that Grant was \"a drunkard, after fast horses, women and whores.\" Grant, he announced, was \"a man without a head or a heart, indifferent to human suffering and impotent to govern.\"\nRather than report to Lowell, Butler went to Washington, where he used his considerable political connections to get a hearing before the Joint Congressional Committee on the Conduct of the War in mid-January. At his hearing Butler focused his defense on his actions at Fort Fisher. He produced charts and duplicates of reports by subordinates to prove he had been right to call off his attack of Fort Fisher, despite orders from General Grant to the contrary. Butler claimed the fort was impregnable. To his embarrassment, a follow-up expedition led by Maj. Gen. Alfred H. Terry and Brig. Gen. Adelbert Ames (Butler's future son-in-law) captured the fort on January 15, and news of this victory arrived during the committee hearing; Butler's military career was over. He was formally retained until November 1865 with the idea that he might act as military prosecutor of Confederate President Jefferson Davis.\nColonization.\nGeneral Butler claimed that Lincoln approached him in 1865, a few days before his assassination, to talk about reviving colonization in Panama. Since the mid-twentieth century, historians have debated the validity of Butler's account, as Butler wrote it years after the fact and was prone to exaggerating his prowess as a general. Recently discovered documents prove that Butler and Lincoln did indeed meet on April 11, 1865, though whether and to what extent they talked about colonization is not recorded except in Butler's account.\nFinancial dealings.\nNegative perceptions of Butler were compounded by his questionable financial dealings in several of his commands, as well as the activities of his brother Andrew, who acted as Butler's financial proxy and was given \"almost free rein\" to engage in exploitative business deals and other \"questionable activities\" in New Orleans. Upon arriving in the city, Butler immediately began attempts to participate in the lucrative inter-belligerent trade. He used a Federal warship to send $60,000 in sugar to Boston where he expected to sell it for $160,000. However, his use of the government ship was reported to the military authorities, and Butler was chastised. Instead of earning a profit, military authorities permitted him to recover only his $60,000 plus expenses. Thereafter, his brother Andrew officially represented the family in such activities. Everyone in New Orleans believed that Andrew accumulated a profit of $1\u2013$2 million while in Louisiana. Upon inquiry from Treasury Secretary Chase in October 1862, the general responded that his brother actually cleared less than $200,000 (~$ in ). When Butler was replaced in New Orleans by Major General Nathaniel Banks, Andrew Butler unsuccessfully tried to bribe Banks with $100,000 if Banks would permit Andrew's \"commercial program\" to be carried out \"as previous to [Banks's] arrival.\"\nButler's administration of the Norfolk district was also tainted by financial scandal and cross-lines business dealings. Historian Ludwell Johnson concluded that during that period: \"... there can be no doubt that a very extensive trade with the Confederacy was carried on in [Butler's Norfolk] Department... This trade was extremely profitable for Northern merchants ... and was a significant help to the Confederacy... It was conducted with Butler's help and a considerable part of it was in the hands of his relatives and supporters.\"\nShortly after arriving in Norfolk, Butler became surrounded by such men. Foremost among them was Brigadier General George Shepley, who had been military governor of Louisiana. Butler invited Shepley to join him and \"take care of Norfolk.\" After his arrival, Shepley was empowered to issue military permits allowing goods to be transported through the lines. He designated subordinate George Johnston to manage the task. In fall 1864, Johnston was charged with corruption. However, instead of being prosecuted, he was allowed to resign after saying he could show \"that General Butler was a partner in all [the controversial] transactions,\" along with the general's brother-in-law Fisher Hildreth. Shortly thereafter, Johnston managed a thriving between-the-lines trade depot in eastern North Carolina. There is no doubt that Butler was aware of Shepley's trading activities. His own chief of staff complained about them and spoke of businessmen who \"owned\" Shepley. Butler took no action.\nMuch of the Butler-managed Norfolk trade was via the Dismal Swamp Canal to six northeastern counties in North Carolina separated from the rest of the state by Albemarle Sound and the Chowan River. Although cotton was not a major crop, area farmers purchased bales from the Confederate government and took them through the lines where they would be traded for \"family supplies.\" Generally, the Southerners returned with salt, sugar, cash, and miscellaneous supplies. They used the salt to preserve butchered pork, which they sold to the Confederate commissary. After Atlantic-blockaded ports such as Charleston and Wilmington were captured, this route supplied about ten thousand pounds of bacon, sugar, coffee, and codfish daily to Lee's army. Ironically, Grant was trying to cut off Lee's supplies from the Confederacy when Lee's provender was almost entirely furnished from Yankee sources through Butler-controlled Norfolk. Grant wrote of the issue, \"Whilst the army was holding Lee in Richmond and Petersburg, I found ... [Lee] ... was receiving supplies, either through the inefficiency or permission of [an] officer selected by General Butler ... from Norfolk through the Albemarle and Chesapeake Canal.\"\nButler's replacement, Major General George H. Gordon, was appalled at the nature of the ongoing trade. Reports were circulating that $100,000 in goods daily left Norfolk for Rebel armies. Grant instructed Gordon to investigate the prior trading practices at Norfolk, after which Gordon released a sixty-page indictment of Butler and his cohorts. It concluded that Butler associates, such as Hildreth and Shepley, were responsible for supplies from Butler's district pouring \"directly into the departments of the Rebel Commissary and Quartermaster.\" Some Butler associates sold permits for cross-line trafficking for a fee. Gordon's report received little publicity, because of the end of the war and Lincoln's assassination.\nPostbellum business and charitable dealings.\nButler greatly expanded his business interests during and after the Civil War, and was extremely wealthy when he died, with an estimated net worth of $7 million ($ million today). Historian Chester Hearn believed \"The source of his fortune has remained a mystery, but much of it came from New Orleans...\" However, Butler's mills in Lowell, which produced woolen goods and were not hampered by cotton shortages, were economically successful during the war, supplying clothing and blankets to the Union Army, and regularly paying high dividends. Successful postwar investments included a granite company on Cape Ann and a barge freight operation on the Merrimack River. After learning that no domestic manufacturer produced bunting, he invested in another Lowell mill to produce it, and convinced the federal government to enact legislation requiring domestic sources for material used on government buildings. Less successful ventures included investments in real estate in Virginia, Colorado, and the Baja Peninsula of western Mexico, and a fraudulent gold mining operation in North Carolina. He also founded the Wamesit Power Company and the United States Cartridge Company, and was one of several high-profile investors who were deceived by Philip Arnold in the famous Diamond hoax of 1872.\nButler put some of his money into more charitable enterprises. He purchased confiscated farms in the Norfolk, Virginia area during the war and turned them over to cooperative ventures managed by local African Americans, and sponsored a scholarship for African-Americans at Phillips Andover Academy. He also served for fifteen years in executive positions of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers, including as its president from 1866 through 1879.\nHis law firm also expanded significantly after the war, adding offices in New York City and Washington. High-profile cases he took included the representation of Admiral David Farragut in his quest to be paid by the government for prizes taken by the Navy during the war, and the defense of former Secretary of War Simon Cameron against an attempted extortion in a salacious case that gained much public notice.\nButler built a mansion immediately across the street from the United States Capitol in 1873\u20131874, known as the Butler Building. One unit of the building was constructed to be fireproof so that it could be rented as storage for valuable and irreplaceable survey records, maps, and engraving plates of the United States Coast Survey (renamed the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey in 1878), whose headquarters in the Richards Building was directly next door. The building was used by President Chester A. Arthur while the White House was being refurnished. On April 10, 1891, the Department of the Treasury purchased the building from Butler for $275,000, (~$ in ) and it became the headquarters of the U.S. Marine Hospital Service, with its Hygienic Laboratory (the predecessor of the National Institutes of Health) occupying its top floor.\nEarly postbellum political activities.\nAt the urging of his wife, Butler actively sought another political position in the Lincoln administration, but this effort came to an end with Lincoln's assassination in April 1865. Soon after he became president, however, Andrew Johnson sought Butler's legal advice as to whether he could prosecute Robert E. Lee for treason, even though General Grant had granted Lee parole at Appomattox. \"On April 25, 1865, Butler wrote a lengthy memorandum to Johnson explaining why the parole Lee received from Grant did not protect him from being prosecuted for treason... Butler argued that parole was merely a military arrangement that allowed a prisoner 'the privilege of partial liberty instead of close confinement... Indeed the Lieutenant General [Grant] had not authority to grant amnesty or pardon even if he had undertaken to do so.\nIn March 1866, Butler argued in the U.S. Supreme Court on behalf of the United States in \"Ex parte Milligan\", in which the Court held, against the United States, that military commission trials could not replace civilian trials when courts were open and where there was no war.\nUnited States House of Representatives (1867\u201375 and 1877\u201379).\nPopular from his reputation as a general, Butler turned his eyes to Congress and was elected in 1866 on a platform of civil rights and opposition to President Andrew Johnson's weak Reconstruction policies. He supported a variety of populist and social reform positions, including women's suffrage, an eight-hour workday for federal employees, and the issuance of greenback currency. In his stump speeches, Butler not only denounced Johnson, but also regularly called for his removal from office.\nButler served four terms (1867\u201375) before failing to be reelected (after hostile Republicans led by Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar succeeded in denying him renomination for his congressional seat in 1874). He was then elected in 1876 and served a single additional term. As a former Democrat, he was initially opposed by the state Republican establishment, which was particularly unhappy with his support of women's suffrage and greenbacks. The more conservative party organization closed ranks against him to reject his two attempts (in 1871 and 1873) to gain the Republican nomination for Governor of Massachusetts.\nImpeachment of Andrew Johnson.\nButler was an early and fierce supporter of impeaching President Johnson.\nAs a congressional candidate, by October 1866 Butler was traveling to multiple cities across the United States delivering speeches in which he promoted the prospect of impeaching Johnson. He detailed six specific charges that Johnson should be impeached for. These were:\nBy the end of November 1866, Congressman-elect Butler was promoting the idea of impeaching Johnson on the basis of eight articles. The articles that he proposed charged Johnson with:\nIn March 1867, Butler unsuccessfully lobbied to be appointed to the House Committee on the Judiciary, which was overseeing the first impeachment inquiry against Andrew Johnson. John Bingham, who had worked to combat many of the early efforts to impeach Johnson, strongly opposed the prospect of Butler's being appointed to that committee.\nAlthough Butler was not included on the select committee appointed to draft the articles of impeachment for Johnson after he was impeached in February 1868, he independently wrote his own article of impeachment. He did so at the urging of Thaddeus Stevens, a member of the select committee who felt that Radical Republicans on the select committee were conceding too much to moderates in limiting the scope of the violations of law that the articles of impeachment the committee was drafting would charge Johnson with. The article Butler wrote cited no clear violation of law, but instead charged Johnson with attempting, \"to bring into disgrace, ridicule, hatred, contempt, and reproach the Congress of the United States.\" The article was seen as having been written in response to speeches that Johnson had made during his \"Swing Around the Circle\". Butler's article was initially rejected by a 48\u201374 vote on March 2, 1868. However, it was subsequently adopted as the tenth article of impeachment by a 88\u201345 vote after it was reintroduced by the impeachment managers the following day. It was the only article of impeachment that any Republican congressman voted against.\nButler was elected by the House serve as be one of the managers (prosecutors) for the impeachment trial of Johnson before the Senate. Although Thaddeus Stevens was the principal guiding force behind the impeachment effort, he was aging and ill at the time, and Butler stepped in to become the main organizing force in the prosecution. The case was focused primarily on Johnson's removal of Secretary of War Edwin Stanton in violation of the Tenure of Office Act, and was weak because the constitutionality of the law had not been decided. The trial was a somewhat uncomfortable affair, in part because the weather was hot and humid, and the chamber was packed. The prosecution's case was a humdrum recitation of facts already widely known, and it was attacked by the defense's William Evarts, who drowned the proceedings by repeatedly objecting to Butler's questions, often necessitating a vote by the Senate on whether to allow the question. Johnson's defense focused on the point that his removal of Stanton fell within the bounds of the Tenure of Office Act. Despite some missteps by the defense and Butler's vigorous cross-examination of defense witnesses, the impeachment failed by a single vote. In the interval between the trial and the Senate vote, Butler searched without success for substantive evidence that Johnson operatives were working to bribe undecided Senators. After acquittal on May 16, 1868, of the first article voted on, Senate Republicans voted to adjourn for ten days, seeking time to possibly change the outcome on the remaining articles.\nLater on May 16, 1868, The House enabled an investigation by the impeachment managers into alleged \"improper or corrupt means used to influence the determination of the Senate\". Butler led this investigation, approving summons for several eyewitnesses the same day that the investigation was authorized. Butler looked into the possibility that four of the seven Republican senators who voted for acquittal had been improperly influenced in their votes. He uncovered some evidence that promises of patronage had been made and that money may have changed hands but was unable to decisively link these actions to any specific senator.\nOn May 26, 1868, Johnson was acquitted on the second and third articles voted on, and the trial was adjourned. On August 3, 1868, Johnson wrote that Butler was \"the most daring and unscrupulous demagogue I have ever known.\" Butler's performance as a prosecutor has been regarded as subpar, and this has been cited as a factor that contributed to Johnson's acquittal. After the trial resulted in an acquittal, Butler continued the impeachment managers' investigation into possible corrupt influence on the trial, conducting hearings on reports that Republican senators had been bribed to vote for Johnson's acquittal. He published the final report of the investigation on July 3, 1868, having failed to prove the alleged corruption that had been investigated.\nCivil Rights Act of 1871.\nButler wrote the initial version of the Civil Rights Act of 1871 (also known as the Ku Klux Klan Act). After his bill was defeated, Representative Samuel Shellabarger of Ohio drafted another bill, only slightly less sweeping than Butler's, that successfully passed both houses and became law upon Grant's signature on April 20. Along with Republican senator Charles Sumner, Butler proposed the Civil Rights Act of 1875, a seminal and far-reaching law banning racial discrimination in public accommodations. The Supreme Court of the United States declared the law unconstitutional in the 1883 Civil Rights Cases.\nRelationship with President Ulysses S. Grant.\nButler managed to rehabilitate his relationship with Ulysses Grant after the latter became president, to the point where he was seen as generally speaking for the president in the House. He annoyed Massachusetts old-guard Republicans by convincing Grant to nominate one of his prot\u00e9g\u00e9s to be collector of the Port of Boston, an important patronage position, and secured an exception for an ally, John B. Sanborn, in legislation regulating the use of contractors by the Internal Revenue Service for the collection of tax debts. In 1874, Sanborn would be involved in the Sanborn Contract scandal, in which he was paid over $200,000 (~$ in ) for collecting debts that would likely have been paid without his intervention.\nOther actions.\nIn 1871, Butler sponsored an appearance by suffragette Victoria Woodhull before a congressional committee. In her testimony, Woodhull argued that the 14th and 15th Amendments to the Constitution of the United States implicitly grant women the right to vote. During his tenure in Congress, Butler served for some time as the chairman of the House Committee on the Judiciary. During the 41st Congress, Butler served as the chairman of the House Select Committee on Reconstruction.\nIn a campaign speech in 1871, Butler spoke out in support of the Paris Commune. He described the working-class insurrection as \"possibly overshadowing the great act of emancipation by which this country liberated four millions of people.\" Butler's speech provided a rare example of a U.S. politician offering solidarity to the Communards.\nGovernor of Massachusetts (1883\u201384).\nUnsuccessful bids.\nButler made four unsuccessful attempts at being elected governor of Massachusetts between the years 1871 and 1879.\nIn 1871 and 1874, he attempted to receive the Republican nomination, but the more conservative party organization closed ranks against him to deny him the nomination.\nButler again ran unsuccessfully for governor of Massachusetts in 1878, this time as an independent with Greenback Party support. He had unsuccessfully also sought the Democratic nomination. He was denied the Democratic nomination by the party's leadership, which refused to admit him into the party. Despite this, Butler did receive the nomination of a populist rump group of Democrats that disrupted the main convention, forcing it to adjourn to another location. He was renominated by the populist Democrats in similar fashion in 1879. In both years, Republicans won against the divided Democrats.\nBecause Butler sought the governorship in part as a stepping stone to the presidency, he opted not to run for it again until 1882.\nTerm in office.\nIn 1882, Butler successfully litigated \"Juilliard v. Greenman\" before the Supreme Court. In what was seen as a victory for Greenback supporters, the case confirmed that the government had the right to issue paper currency for public and private debts.\nIn 1882, Butler again ran for governor of Massachusetts, this time being elected by a 14,000-vote margin after winning nomination by both Greenbacks and an undivided Democratic Party. As governor, Butler was active in promoting reform and competence in administration, in spite of a hostile Republican legislature and Governor's Council. He appointed the state's first Irish-American judge, its first African American judge, George Lewis Ruffin, and appointed the first woman to executive office, Clara Barton, to head the Massachusetts Reformatory for Women. He also graphically exposed the mismanagement of the state's Tewksbury Almshouse under a succession of Republican governors. Butler was somewhat notoriously snubbed by Harvard University, which traditionally granted honorary degrees to the state's governors. Butler's honorarium was denied because the Board of Overseers, headed by Ebenezer Hoar, voted against it.\nButler's bid for reelection in 1883 was one of the most contentious campaigns of his career. His presidential ambitions were well known, and the state's Republican establishment, led by Ebenezer and George Frisbie Hoar, poured money into the campaign against him. Running against Congressman George D. Robinson (whose campaign manager was a young Henry Cabot Lodge), Butler was defeated by 10,000 votes, out of more than 300,000 cast. Butler is credited with beginning the tradition of the \"lone walk\", the ceremonial exit from the office of Governor of Massachusetts, after finishing his term in 1884.\n1884 presidential campaign.\nButler parlayed his victory in the \"Juilliard v. Greenman\" decision into a run for president in 1884. Butler was nominated by the Greenback and Anti-Monopoly parties, but was unsuccessful in getting the Democratic nomination, which went to Grover Cleveland. Cleveland refused to adopt parts of Butler's platform in exchange for his political support, prompting Butler to run in the general election rather than withdrawing in deference to Cleveland. He sought to gain electoral votes by engaging in fusion efforts with Democrats in some states and Republicans in others, in which he took what were perceived in the contemporary press as bribes $25,000 from the campaign of Republican James G. Blaine. The effort was in vain: Butler polled 175,000 out of 10 million votes cast in the election, which Cleveland won.\nLater years and death.\nIn his later years Butler reduced his activity level, working on his memoir, \"Butler's Book\", which was published in 1892. \"Butler's Book\" has 1,037 pages plus a 94-page appendix consisting of letters. In it, \"Butler focused by far the majority of his attention on the war years, vigorously defending his often-maligned record.\" He arranged \"with his longtime friend and ally James Parton [author of \"General Butler in New Orleans\"] that Parton would finish the book if Butler died before it was done. (As it happens, Parton died first, in October 1891).\" Butler's biographer Richard S. West Jr. writes, \"The autobiography may be said to be generally true without being meticulously accurate\".\nButler died on January 11, 1893, of complications from a bronchial infection, two days after arguing a case before the Supreme Court. He is buried in his wife's family cemetery, behind the main Hildreth Cemetery in Lowell. The inscription on Butler's monument reads, \"the true touchstone of civil liberty is not that all men are equal but that every man has the right to be the equal of every other man\u2014if he can.\"\nHis daughter Blanche married Adelbert Ames, a Mississippi governor and senator who had served as a general in the Union Army during the war. Butler's descendants include the scientist Adelbert Ames Jr., suffragist and artist Blanche Ames Ames, Butler Ames, and George Plimpton.\nLegacy.\nAccording to biographer Hans L. Trefousse:\nButler was one of the most controversial 19th-century American politicians. Demagogue, speculator, military bungler, and sharp legal practitioner\u2014he was all of these; and he also was a fearless advocate of justice for the downtrodden, a resourceful military administrator, and an astonishing innovator. He was passionately hated and equally strongly admired, and if the South called him \"Beast,\" his constituents in Massachusetts were fascinated by him... As a leading advocate of radical Reconstruction, Butler played an important role in the conflict between president and Congress. His effectiveness was marred by the frequency with which engaged in personal altercations, and his conduct as one of the principal managers of the impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson was dubious. Nevertheless he deserves recognition as a persistent critic of southern terrorism and is one of the chief authors of the Civil Rights Act of 1875.\nBlack newspapers eulogized him \"consistently as a 'friend of the colored race,' 'a staunch and enthusiastic advocate' of Black progress, and 'one of the few American statesmen who have stood as a wall of defense in favor of equal rights for all American citizens.' ... The \"New England Torchlight\" put it simply: 'The white South hated him. The black South loved him.\nIdeology (\"Butlerism\").\nButlerism was a political term in the United States during the Gilded Age applied as a pejorative by its opponents that referred to the political causes of Butler. A populist movement, it was criticized for its \"spirit of the European mob,\" and appealed to support for women's suffrage, Irish nationalism, an eight-hour work day, monetary inflation, and the usage of greenbacks to pay off the national debt.\nThe ideology and political themes of Butlerism, which opposed civil service reform, advocated inflationary monetary policy, and assailed capitalism as exploiting workmen, clashed with the aims of liberal reformers in the Gilded Age. Its left-wing stances on monetary policy came at odds with the considerably more conservative members of the Republican Party, including Ulysses S. Grant and James G. Blaine. When Butler and Democratic congressman George H. Pendleton led a bipartisan wing of inflationists advocating the continued usage of greenbacks, Blaine emerged as the first member of Congress antagonizing the repudiation theory. After President Grant in 1874 vetoed Butler's \"inflation bill,\" \"Harper's Weekly\" published a cartoon by Thomas Nast depicting Grant, a supporter of sound money, as having \"bottled up\" Butlerism.\nIn spite of Butlerism's radical elements during its time, Butler during the presidency of Rutherford B. Hayes was closely aligned with the politics of the conservative Stalwart faction in his support for Ulysses S. Grant, due to their shared concern for civil rights, tendency to \"wave the bloody shirt,\" and antipathy towards the hardline civil service reform efforts. These aims were in turn harshly lamented by reformers, including Charles Francis Adams Jr., and Carl Schurz.\nOpponents of Butler derided the ideology as involving \"no principle which is elevating, it inspires no sentiment which is ennobling.\" In turn, defenders of Butlerism retorted:\nAttacks on Butlerism included one by Kentucky Democrat John Y. Brown in February 1874, who complained: \"If I wished to describe all that was pusillanimous in war, inhuman in peace, forbidden in morals, and infamous in politics, I should call it 'Butlerism. Brown subsequently faced a censure for his remarks, and bickering on the House floor soon followed."}
{"id": "732955", "revid": "1306352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732955", "title": "Poems", "text": ""}
{"id": "732956", "revid": "49842254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732956", "title": "Oprichnina", "text": "The oprichnina (, ; from Russian \"oprich\" ( meaning \"apart from\" or \"special\") was a state policy implemented by Tsar Ivan the Terrible in Russia between 1565 and 1572. The policy included mass repression of the boyars (Russian aristocrats), including public executions and confiscation of their land and property. In this context the term can also refer to:\nThe term \"oprichnina\", which Ivan coined for this policy, derives from the Russian word \"oprich\" ( 'apart from', 'except').\nCauses.\nIn 1558, Tsar Ivan IV started the Livonian War. A broad coalition, which included Poland, Lithuania and Sweden, became drawn into the war against Russia. The war became drawn-out (it continued until 1583) and expensive; raids by Crimean Tatars, Polish and Lithuanian invasions, famines, a trading blockade and escalating costs of war ravaged Russia.\nIn 1564, Prince Andrey Kurbsky defected to the Lithuanians and commanded the Lithuanian army against Russia, devastating the Russian region of Velikiye Luki. Tsar Ivan began to suspect other aristocrats of readiness to betray him.\nHistorians Vasily Klyuchevsky (1841\u20131911) and (1876\u20131952) explained the oprichnina in terms of Ivan's paranoia and denied larger social aims for the oprichnina. However, historian Sergey Platonov (1860\u20131933) argued that Ivan IV intended the oprichnina as a suppression of the rising boyar aristocracy. Professor Isabel de Madariaga (1919\u20132014) expanded this idea to explain the oprichnina as Ivan's attempt to subordinate all independent social classes to the autocracy.\nEstablishment.\nOn December 3, 1564, Ivan IV departed Moscow on pilgrimage. While such journeys were routine for the throne, Ivan neglected to set in place the usual arrangements for rule in his absence. Moreover, an unusually large personal guard, a significant number of boyars, and the treasury accompanied him.\nAfter a month of silence, Ivan finally issued two letters from his fortifications at Aleksandrova Sloboda on January 3, 1565. The first addressed the elite of Moscow and accused them of embezzlement and treason. Further accusations concerned the clergy and their protection of denounced boyars. In conclusion, Ivan announced his abdication. The second letter addressed the population of Moscow and claimed \"he had no anger against\" its citizenry. Divided between Aleksandrova Sloboda and Moscow, the boyar court was unable to rule in the absence of Ivan and feared the wrath of the Muscovite citizenry. Envoys departed for Aleksandrova Sloboda to beg Ivan to return to the throne.\nIvan IV agreed to return on condition that he might prosecute people for treason outside legal limitations. He demanded the right to execute and confiscate the land of traitors without interference from the boyar council or from the church. To pursue his investigations, Ivan decreed the establishment of the oprichnina (originally a term for land left to a noble widow, separate from her children's land). He also raised a levy of 100,000 rubles to pay for the oprichnina.\nOrganization.\nThe oprichnina consisted of a separate territory within the borders of Russia, mostly in the territory of the former Novgorod Republic in the north. This region included many of the financial centers of the state, including the salt region of Staraya Russa and prominent merchant towns. Ivan held exclusive power over the oprichnina territory. The Boyar Council ruled the zemshchina ('land'), the second division of the state. Until 1568, the oprichnina relied upon many administrative institutions under zemshchina jurisdiction. Only when conflict between the zemshchina and oprichnina reached its peak did Ivan create independent institutions within the oprichnina.\nIvan also stipulated the creation of a personal guard known as the oprichniki (, , meaning 'men of oprichnina'; singular: \"oprichnik\"). The corps also served as police, and soldiers. Originally it was a thousand strong. Some scholars believe that Ivan's second wife, the Circassian Maria Temryukovna, first had the idea of forming the organization. This theory comes from Heinrich von Staden, a German oprichnik. Upon acceptance, the new oprichniki were required to swear an oath of allegiance:\nI swear to be true to the Lord, Grand Prince, and his realm, to the young Grand Princes, and to the Grand Princess, and not to maintain silence about any evil that I may know or have heard or may hear which is being contemplated against the Tsar, his realms, the young princes or the Tsaritsa. I swear also not to eat or drink with the zemshchina, and not to have anything in common with them. On this I kiss the cross.\nThe noble oprichniki Aleksei Basmanov and Afanasy Viazemsky oversaw recruitment. Nobles and townsmen free of relations to the zemshchina or its administration were eligible for Ivan\u2019s new guard. Henri Troyat has emphasized the lowly origin of the oprichnina recruits. However, historian Vladimir Kobrin has contested that a shift to the lower classes constituted a late development in the oprichnina era. Many early oprichniki had close ties to the princely and boyar clans of Russia.\nTerritorial divisions under the oprichnina led to mass resettlement. When the property of zemshchina nobles fell within oprichnina territory, oprichniki seized their lands and forced the owners onto zemshchina land. The oprichnina territory included primarily service estates. Alexander Zimin and Stepan Veselovsky have argued that this division left hereditary landownership largely unaffected. However, Platonov and other scholars have posited that resettlement aimed to undermine the power of the landed nobility. Pavlov has cited the relocation of zemshchina servicemen from oprichnina territories onto heredity estates as a critical blow to the power of the princely class. The division of hereditary estates diminished the influence of the princely elites in their native provinces. The worst affected was the province of Suzdal which lost 80% of its gentry.\nThe oprichniki enjoyed social and economic privileges under the oprichnina. While zemshchina boyars lost both hereditary and service land, the oprichniki retained hereditary holdings that fell in zemshchina land. Moreover, Ivan granted the oprichnina the spoils of a heavy tax levied upon the zemshchina nobles. The rising oprichniki owed their allegiance to Ivan, not heredity or local bonds.\nOperations.\nThe first wave of persecutions targeted primarily the princely clans of Russia, notably the influential families of Suzdal. Ivan executed, exiled, or tortured prominent members of the boyar clans on questionable accusations of conspiracy. 1566 saw the oprichnina extended to eight central districts. Of the 12,000 nobles there, 570 became oprichniks, and the rest were expelled. They had to make their way to the zemshchina in mid-winter; peasants who helped them were executed. In a show of clemency, Ivan recalled a number of nobles to Moscow. The Tsar even called upon zemshchina nobles for a zemskii sobor concerning the Livonian War. Ivan posed the question whether Russia should surrender the Livonian territories to recently victorious Lithuania or maintain the effort to conquer the region. The body approved war measures and advanced emergency taxes to support the draining treasury.\nHowever, the zemskii sobor also forwarded a petition to end the oprichnina. The Tsar reacted with a renewal of the oprichnina terror. He ordered the immediate arrest of the petitioners and executed the alleged leaders of the protest. Further investigations tied Ivan Federov, leader of the zemshchina duma, to a plot to overthrow Tsar Ivan; Federov was removed from court and executed shortly thereafter.\nThe overthrow of King Erik XIV of Sweden in 1568 and the death of Ivan's second wife in 1569 exacerbated Ivan's suspicions. His attention turned to the northwestern city of Novgorod. The second largest city in Russia, Novgorod housed a large service nobility with ties to some of the condemned boyar families of Moscow. Despite the sack of the city under Ivan III, Novgorod maintained a political organization removed from Russia\u2019s central administration. Moreover, the influence of the city in the northeast had increased as the city fronted the military advance against the Lithuanian border. The treasonous surrender of the border town Izborsk to Lithuania also caused Ivan to question the faith of border towns.\nIvan IV and an oprichniki detachment instituted a month-long terror in Novgorod (the Massacre of Novgorod). The oprichniki raided the town and conducted executions among all classes. As the Livonian campaign constituted a significant drain on state resources, Ivan targeted ecclesiastical and merchant holdings with particular fervor. After Novgorod, the oprichniki company turned to the adjacent merchant city Pskov. The city received relatively merciful treatment. The oprichniki limited executions and focused primarily upon the seizure of ecclesiastical wealth. According to a popular apocryphal account, Nicholas Salos of Pskov the fool-for-Christ prophesied the fall of Ivan and thus motivated the deeply religious Tsar to spare the city. Alternatively, Ivan may have felt no need to institute a terror in Pskov due to his prior sack of the city in wake of the Izborsk treason. The dire financial condition of the state and the need to bolster the war treasury likely inspired the second raid.\nModern theories suggest that the motivating purpose for the organization and existence of the oprichniki was to oppress people or groups opposed to the Tsar. Known to ride black horses and led by Ivan himself, the group was known to terrorize civilian populations. Sometimes called the \"cromeshnina\" (selected) because they were a hand-picked body, the oprichniki dressed in black garb, similar to a monastic habit, and carried attached to their saddles a severed dog's head (to sniff out treason and enemies of the Tsar), or an actual wolf's head and a broom (to sweep them away). The wolf's head was also symbolic of the hounds of hell tearing at the heels of the Tsar's enemies. The logistics of acquiring the canine heads was quite gruesome. Due to the lack of taxidermy, the severed and drained heads would only remain frozen for the winter months of the year. To maintain their image, the oprichnik required a constant supply of fresh heads. Ivan himself carried a fearsome canine head made of iron with jaws that would open and snap shut as his horse galloped.\nThe oprichniki were ordered to execute anyone disloyal to Ivan and used various methods of torture to do so, including quartering, boiling, impalement, and roasting victims tied to poles over an open fire.\nOprichniki were devout Christians of the Eastern Orthodox Church similarly to the Tsar himself.\nWhen Ivan declared himself the \"Hand of God\", he selected 300 of the oprichniki to be his personal \"brotherhood\" and live in his castle at Aleksandrovskaia Sloboda near Vladimir. At 4 a.m., these select oprichniki attended a sermon given by Ivan, then performed the day's ritual executions. The oprichniki sought to lead an externally ascetic lifestyle, like the monks they emulated, but it was punctuated by acts of cruelty and debauchery. \nIn the Novgorod incident, the oprichniks killed an estimated 1500 \"big people\" (nobles), although the actual number of victims is unknown.\nThe persecutions began to target the oprichnina leadership itself. The tsar had already refused Basmanov and Viazemsky participation in the Novgorod campaign. Upon his return, Ivan condemned the two to prison, where they died shortly thereafter. Pavlov links Ivan's turn against the higher echelons of oprichniki to the increasing number of the lower-born among their ranks. Ivan may have reacted to the apparent discontent among the princely oprichniki over the brutal treatment of Novgorod. Furthermore, class disparity may have set the lower recruits against the princely oprichniki. As Ivan already suspected the older oprichniki on the issue of Novgorod, the lower-born recruits may have advanced the new persecutions to increase their influence in the oprichnina hierarchy.\nDisbandment.\n1572 saw the fall of the oprichnina state structure. The zemshchina and oprichnina territories were reunited and placed under rule of a reformed Boyar Council, which included members from both sides of the divided apparatus.\nScholars have cited diverse factors to explain the dissolution of the oprichnina. When the Crimean Tatars burnt Moscow in 1571 during the Russo-Crimean War, the oprichniki failed to offer serious resistance. The success of the Tatars may have shaken the Tsar's faith in the effectiveness of the oprichnina. Ivan may have found state division ineffective in a period of war and its significant social and economic pressures. Alternatively, Ivan may have deemed the oprichnina a success; the weakening of the princely elite having been achieved, the Tsar may have felt that the terror had simply outlived its usefulness.\nLegacy.\nScholar Robert O. Crummey and Platonov have emphasized the social impact of the mass resettlements under the oprichnina. The division of large estates into smaller oprichnik plots subjected the peasants to a stricter landowning dominion. Furthermore, a new itinerant population emerged as state terror and the seizure of lands forced many peasants from their lands. The increase in itinerants may have motivated the ultimate institutionalization of serfdom by the Russian throne. The oprichnina coincided with the major social and economic crisis in Russia and, according to some contemporary and historical accounts, contributed to it.\nHistorian Isabel de Madariaga has emphasized the role of the oprichnina in the consolidation of aristocratic power. Resettlement drastically reduced the power of the hereditary nobility. Oprichniki landowners who owed their loyalty to the throne replaced an aristocracy that might have evolved independent political ambitions. Alternatively, Crummey has summarized the social effects of the oprichnina as a failure. From this perspective, the oprichnina failed to pursue coherent social motives and instead pursued a largely unfocused terror. Such interpretations are derived from the 1960s works by Ruslan Skrynnikov who described the oprichnina as the reign of terror designed to root out every possible challenge to the autocracy:\nCultural depictions.\nIvan Lazhechnikov wrote the tragedy \"The Oprichniki\" (), on which Tchaikovsky based his opera \"The Oprichnik\". In turn, Tchaikovsky's opera inspired a 1911 painting by Apollinary Vasnetsov, depicting a city street and people fleeing in panic at the arrival of the oprichniki.\nOprichniki Malyuta Skuratov, Alexei Basmanov and his son Fyodor Basmanov are main characters in \"Ivan the Terrible\", a classic historical epic film (released in two parts in 1944 and 1946) directed by Sergei Eisenstein.\nIn modern media:"}
{"id": "732958", "revid": "14916843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732958", "title": "Wallace Rider Farrington", "text": "Wallace Rider Farrington (May 3, 1871 \u2013 October 6, 1933) was an American journalist who served as the sixth Territorial Governor of Hawaii, serving from 1921 to 1929. Prior to his term, he was editor of \"The Honolulu Advertiser\" and \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" newspapers.\nLife.\nFarrington was born in Orono on May 3, 1871. He graduated the University of Maine in 1891. An avid traveler, he found himself in Honolulu, Hawaii in 1894 and was persuaded to stay to become the editor of the \"Honolulu Advertiser\". He left the newspaper after three years of service to become the editor of the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\". Interested in local politics, he was elected Mayor of Honolulu.\nIn 1915, Farrington organized the Honolulu Ad Club. One of his invited guest speakers was Warren Harding, a Republican Senator from Ohio. Farrington introduced Harding as \"the future president of the United States.\" Harding replied that if Farrington's prediction came true, he would name Farrington governor of the Territory of Hawaii.\nThree months after taking office as U.S. President in 1921, Harding fulfilled his promise, appointing Farrington as the Territorial Governor of Hawaii. His tenure was controversial, as he followed the previous Governor in favouring the Whites. \nFarrington served as a Republican through 1929 when he retired from public life. Suffering from heart disease, he died on October 6, 1933.\nFarrington was memorialized with the dedication of Wallace Rider Farrington High School in the historic Kalihi district of Honolulu. The school adopted \"The Governors\" as its nickname and mascot, in honor of the school's namesake. Also named after him are Farrington Street in lower Manoa Valley, Farrington Highway which stretches from Pearl City to the leeward coast of Oahu, and Farrington Hall (demolished in the 1970s) at the University of Hawaii, Manoa where he served as chairman of the University of Hawaii Board of Regents from 1914 to 1920.\nFamily.\nFarrington was the father of Joseph Rider Farrington, a member of the Senate of the Territory of Hawaii and the territory's delegate to the United States Congress. Joseph Farrington died in office and was succeeded by his wife, Mary Elizabeth Pruett Farrington, who carried on the Farrington name. He was buried in Oahu Cemetery."}
{"id": "732960", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732960", "title": "Baron Hutton", "text": ""}
{"id": "732961", "revid": "21902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732961", "title": "Lord Saville", "text": ""}
{"id": "732964", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732964", "title": "Baron Saville of Newdigate", "text": ""}
{"id": "732965", "revid": "44127043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732965", "title": "Olof Erland", "text": "Olof Erland (16 February 1944 - 23 May 2013) was a politician in the autonomous \u00c5land Islands.\nMarried to Viveka Eriksson"}
{"id": "732968", "revid": "48736052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732968", "title": "The Human Equation", "text": "The Human Equation is the sixth album from the progressive rock project Ayreon by Dutch musician Arjen Anthony Lucassen, released on 25 May 2004 via Inside Out Music. As with other Ayreon albums, it features guest appearances from several musicians previously unrelated to the project, including James LaBrie of Dream Theater, Mikael \u00c5kerfeldt of Opeth, Eric Clayton of Saviour Machine, and Devin Townsend, performing music arranged and written by Lucassen.\nAs with nearly every Ayreon album, it is a concept album with each character being portrayed by one singer. However unlike previous albums, \"The Human Equation\" is not a sci-fi story but takes place almost entirely in the mind of a character called Me (played by LaBrie) who is in a coma after a car crash, with each song consisting of one day spent in coma. While his Wife (Marcela Bovio) and Best Friend (Lucassen) are at his side in the real world, Me, trapped in his own mind, encounters representations of his own feelings and recalls his life from his childhood to his crash.\nThe album was released in three different editions: a regular edition with two CDs, a Special Edition with two CDs and a DVD, and a Limited Deluxe Edition with two CDs, a DVD and a 36-page booklet. The album peaked at #7 at Dutch Albums Chart and at #50 at Germany Albums Top 50. The single \"Day Eleven: Love\" peaked at #39 at Dutch Singles Chart. The album was also released on vinyl in December 2012.\n\"The Human Equation\" is one of the few Ayreon albums in which Lucassen did not write all the lyrics (the others are \"Into the Electric Castle\" and \"The Theory of Everything\"): Townsend wrote all lyrics for his character Rage, while Heather Findlay of Mostly Autumn and Devon Graves of Deadsoul Tribe also wrote some of the lyrics for their characters, Love and Agony. The albums marks the first collaboration between Lucassen and Bovio, selected by Lucassen via an internet female singing contest to play Wife. The following year, Bovio and Lucassen created together progressive/symphonic metal band Stream of Passion.\nConcept and storyline.\nThe album explores the idea of psychological rebirth, and follows the story of a man who, after falling into a coma following a car crash, is confronted with his past, his emotions, and his current situation as he lays trapped inside his own mind. The circumstances surrounding the crash are mysterious, as the man (\"Me\", portrayed by James LaBrie) ploughed into a tree on a deserted road in broad daylight. Following this, he slips into a twenty-day coma, with each day represented by a single song. Each song follows a slightly different format, though there are major common themes, such as the presence of Me's manifest emotions in his dream world including Fear (Mikael \u00c5kerfeldt), Reason (Eric Clayton), and Pride (Magnus Ekwall); the presence of Me's Wife (Marcela Bovio) and Best Friend (Arjen Anthony Lucassen) at his bedside; and the past events that Me is forced to reflect on.\nThe plot builds from Me\u2019s early broken state to his eventual rebirth as a new and better man. His own dark past, in which he suffered beneath an abusive Father (Mike Baker), was driven to become merciless by school bullies, and eventually betrayed his closest friend for his own benefit; is intertwined with the plot surrounding Wife and Best Friend, eventually revealing the cause of the crash: Me had witnessed the two sharing an intimate moment, and had swerved his car into a tree in his despair. The three eventually come clean and forgive each other, leading Me to conquer his negative emotions and escape his nightmarish prison.\nThe story terminates with a sci-fi twist in contrast to the psychodrama of the album, but reminiscent of earlier Ayreon releases. The final song cuts suddenly to silence as it crescendoes to a climax, and a computerised voice announces the shut-down of the . The voice of Forever of the Stars then speaks the final words of the album (\"Emotions...I remember...\"), tying its events into the overall Ayreon plot that began with \"The Final Experiment\".\nThe Theater Equation.\nThe Theater Equation is a video release of a live performance of \"The Human Equation\" in 2015.\nTrack listing.\n\"Disc 2 has ten four-second and one nine-second hidden tracks which introduce \"Day Twelve: Trauma\".\""}
{"id": "732970", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732970", "title": "Madam Rosemerta", "text": ""}
{"id": "732971", "revid": "39761822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732971", "title": "Dekalog", "text": "Dekalog (, also known as Dekalog: The Ten Commandments and The Decalogue) is a 1989 Polish drama television miniseries directed by Krzysztof Kie\u015blowski and co-written by Kie\u015blowski with Krzysztof Piesiewicz, with music by Zbigniew Preisner. It consists of ten one-hour films, inspired by the decalogue of the Ten Commandments. Each installment explores characters facing one or several moral or ethical dilemmas as they reside in an austere housing project in 1980s Poland.\nExhibited in its entirety at the 46th Venice International Film Festival, the series, Kie\u015blowski's most acclaimed work, was said in 2002 to be \"the best dramatic work ever done specifically for television\" and has won numerous international awards, though it did not receive wide release outside Europe until the late 1990s. It is one of fifteen films listed in the category \"Values\" on the Vatican film list. In 1991, filmmaker Stanley Kubrick wrote an admiring foreword to the published screenplay, wherein he stated that \"Dekalog\" was the only film masterpiece he could think of.\nProduction.\nThe series was conceived when screenwriter Krzysztof Piesiewicz, who had seen a 15th-century artwork illustrating the Commandments in scenes from that time period, suggested the idea of a modern equivalent. Filmmaker Krzysztof Kie\u015blowski was interested in the philosophical challenge, and also wanted to use the series as a portrait of the hardships of Polish society, while deliberately avoiding the political issues he had depicted in earlier films. He originally meant to hire ten different directors, but decided to direct the films himself. He used a different cinematographer for each episode except III and IX, in both of which Piotr Soboci\u0144ski was director of photography.\nThe large cast includes both famous and unknown actors, many of whom Kie\u015blowski also used in his other films. Typically for Kie\u015blowski, the tone of most of the films is melancholic, except for the final one, which is a black comedy, featuring two of the same actors, Jerzy Stuhr and Zbigniew Zamachowski, as in \"\".\nThemes.\nThe ten films are titled simply by number, e.g. \"Dekalog: One\". According to film critic Roger Ebert's introduction to the DVD set, Kie\u015blowski said that the films did not correspond exactly to the commandments, and never used their names himself. Though each film is independent, most of them share the same setting in Warsaw, and some of the characters are acquainted with each other. Each short film explores characters facing one or several moral or ethical dilemmas as they live in a large housing project in 1980s Poland. The themes can be interpreted in many different ways; however, each film has its own literality:\nRecurring character of Artur Barci\u015b.\nA nameless character played by Polish actor Artur Barci\u015b appears in all but episodes 7 and 10. He observes the main characters at key moments, and never intervenes.\nMilk.\nMilk is a recurring element in the following seven episodes:\nReception.\n It won the 1991 BAFTA TV Award for Best International Programme and the Bodil Award for Best European Film. The film also won the \"Best Foreign Film\" award from French Syndicate of Cinema Critics.\nThe series was praised by renowned film critics including Roger Ebert and Robert Fulford, as well as influential filmmaker Stanley Kubrick.\nIn the 2002 \"Sight &amp; Sound\" poll to determine the greatest films of all time, \"Dekalog\" and \"A Short Film About Killing\" received votes from four critics and three directors, including Ebert, New Yorker critic David Denby, and director Mira Nair. Additionally, in the \"Sight &amp; Sound\" poll held the same year to determine the top 10 films of the previous 25 years, Kieslowski was named #2 on the list of Top Directors, with votes for his films being split between \"Dekalog,\" \"Three Colors Red/Blue\", and \"The Double Life of Veronique\".\nIn the 2012 polls \"Dekalog\" received six votes from critics including Kenneth Turan and one vote from director Milcho Manchevski as the \"Greatest Film of All Time\".\n\"The Village Voice\" ranked \"The Decalogue\" at No. 112 in its Top 250 \"Best Films of the Century\" list in 1999, based on a poll of critics. In January 2002, the film was listed among the Top 100 \"Essential Films\" of all time by the National Society of Film Critics. The film ranked #36 in \"Empire\" magazine's \"The 100 Best Films of World Cinema\" in 2010.\nIn a 2025 Criterion Closet Video, Director Brady Corbet called \"The Decalogue\" \"[M]aybe the greatest achievement in the history of cinema.\"\nLonger feature films.\nKie\u015blowski expanded \"Five\" and \"Six\" into longer feature films (\"A Short Film About Killing\" and \"A Short Film About Love\"), using the same cast and changing the stories slightly. This was part of a contractual obligation with the producers, since feature films were easier to distribute outside Poland. In 2000, the series was released on five DVDs, each containing two parts of about 2 hours."}
{"id": "732975", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732975", "title": "Primary Domain Controller", "text": ""}
{"id": "732976", "revid": "5723718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732976", "title": "Schleicher (Hammond, Indiana)", "text": "Schleicher is a small neighborhood in the southern portion of Hammond, IN. It is south of I-80/94, with US Route 41 (Indianapolis BLVD) bordering it to the east, Columbia AVE to the west, and the Little Calumet River to the south, separating Hammond from Munster, IN.\nSchleicher is also the home of Optimist Baseball Fields, located on the western side of the neighborhood where James Whitcomb Riley Elementary (closed in 2005) once stood.\nSchleicher is dominated by standard slab, single family homes. Students in this neighborhood attend Frank O'Bannon Elementary and Donald E. Gavit Middle/High School."}
{"id": "732977", "revid": "43059617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732977", "title": "Gilles Caouette", "text": "Gilles Caouette (; February 16, 1940 \u2013 August 13, 2009) was a Canadian politician and member of Parliament.\nCaouette was born in Rouyn-Noranda, Quebec. His father, R\u00e9al Caouette, was a prominent Social Credit politician, and leader of the \"Ralliement cr\u00e9ditiste\" and later the Social Credit Party of Canada.\nGilles followed in his father\u2019s footsteps, and ran unsuccessfully for election to the House of Commons of Canada as a \"Ralliement cr\u00e9ditiste\" or Social Credit candidate three times (1963, 1964 and 1965). He finally won election from Charlevoix in the 1972 election with a margin of 159 votes.\nGilles was defeated in the 1974 election, and in a 1975 by-election in Hochelaga.\nHis father died in 1976, resulting in a by-election in the T\u00e9miscamingue riding that his father had held since 1962. Gilles won the May 24, 1977 by-election, and returned to the House of Commons. On June 24, 1977, R\u00e9al\u2019s successor as Social Credit party leader, Andr\u00e9-Gilles Fortin, died at the age of 33. Gilles became acting party leader on June 29. He had intended to run at the party's leadership convention but refused to run and resigned as interim leader when the party's executive council decided to hold the convention earlier rather than later and hold it in Winnipeg, Manitoba instead of Quebec where most party members (and all of its Members of Parliament) lived. He was replaced as interim leader by Charles-Arthur Gauthier.\nCaouette ran in the 1979 election but lost his seat in the House of Commons.\nOutside politics he worked as an administrator, draftsman, research director, and as a technician.\nReferences.\nSource: History of the Federal Electoral Ridings since 1867"}
{"id": "732979", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732979", "title": "Joseph R. Farrington", "text": "Joseph Rider Farrington (October 15, 1897 \u2013 June 19, 1954) was an American newspaper editor and statesman who served in the United States Congress as delegate for the Territory of Hawai'i.\nEducation and military career.\nFarrington was born in Washington, D.C., to Wallace Rider Farrington, the future Territorial Governor of Hawai'i. While still an infant, he moved to Honolulu, Hawai'i with his parents where his father began work as an editor for the \"Honolulu Advertiser\" and later the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\" newspapers. Farrington attended Punahou School and, upon graduating, studied at the University of Wisconsin. He dropped out of college in June 1918 to enlist in the United States Army. He was commissioned a second lieutenant of field artillery in September 1918 and discharged the following December. He returned to the University of Wisconsin\u2013Madison and graduated in 1919.\nNewspaper career.\nAs soon as he obtained his degree in Wisconsin, Farrington became a reporter on the staff of the \"Public Ledger\" in Philadelphia. He served three years as a member of its Washington bureau. He then returned to Honolulu to follow in his father's footsteps and entered the newspaper business. He became a reporter and then editor of the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\". In 1939, Farrington succeeded his father to become president and general manager of the \"Honolulu Star-Bulletin\", an office in which he served until his death.\nPolitical career.\nFarrington began a part-time political career as secretary to the Hawai'i Legislative Commission in 1933. The following year he was elected to the Hawaii Territorial Senate, an office he served in through 1942. On January 3, 1943, Farrington was sworn in as a Republican delegate to Congress. Farrington was a supporter of Hawaiian statehood and help advise the early post-war efforts for admission. He died in office in Washington, D.C., on June 19, 1954, of an apparent heart attack. His wife, Elizabeth P. Farrington, was elected to replace him in Congress. Farrington was buried in the Oahu Cemetery in Nuuanu Valley in Honolulu."}
{"id": "732980", "revid": "27199084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732980", "title": "Croxteth", "text": "Croxteth is a suburb of Liverpool, Merseyside, England, and a Liverpool City Council Ward. Although housing in the area is predominantly modern, the suburb has some notable history. At the 2011 census it had a population of 14,561.\nEtymology.\nThe name \"Croxteth\" appears to be of Old Norse origin. The name appears to mean \"Croc's landing place\" or \"river-bend landing place\", derived from the elements \"Croc\" (personal name) or Old Norse \"kr\u00f3kr\" (\"river-bend\") + Norse \"st\u01eb\u00f0\" (\"landing-place, jetty\"). Or else, the second element may be \"sta\u00f0r\" (\"place\").\nHistory.\nThe suburb is in the north of Liverpool and borders Norris Green, Gilmoss, Fazakerley and West Derby. The \"Dog and Gun\" public house (demolished in 2005) was a historic hostelry, likely associated with the hunt from Croxteth Hall.\nThe first tranche of housing in Croxteth was built to rehouse families from the Scotland Road area of the city that was subject to mass demolition during the construction of the second Mersey Tunnel. Within the past twenty years very large areas of Croxteth Park and a City Council playing field have been sold for housing development to create a huge housing estate, noted for its lack of local amenities. \nFrom the A580 road (the Liverpool-East Lancashire Road, abbreviated to and known commonly as East Lancs Road) passing Malpas Road to St. Swithens including the much talked about haunting of Gillmoss School. Croxteth was one of the first \"suburbs of Liverpool\".\nThe first houses in the Croxteth estate were in fact built in the immediate post war period to house skilled workers from Slough and Rugby who had been brought in to the English Electric and Napier factories (on the East Lancs Road), and families from the dockland inner-city areas who had lost their homes through bombing and slum demolition. The second tunnel came much later. The first families arrived in 1951 to live in an estate that was without roads, pavements, shops, pubs or buses. However, in the wake of World War II during the late 1940s and early 1950s, massive residential extensions at Croxteth, alongside similar and indistinguishable development of neighbouring Norris Green, resulted in what together, are now regarded as the largest municipal housing estate in Europe.\nTransport.\nCroxteth is close to the \"A580 East Lancashire Road\", to the north, and the M57 motorway.\nThe area is served by the Merseytravel bus routes to Liverpool City Centre, Page Moss, Broadgreen Hospital, Fazakerley Hospital and Knowsley Industrial Estate.\nThe nearest station is Fazakerley railway station, approximately away in on the Kirkby branch of Merseyrail's Northern Line.\nA proposed light rail system, Merseytram was intended to serve Croxteth. Approved in 2002, it would have linked Kirkby and Croxteth to Liverpool City Centre via West Derby, West Derby Road, the Royal Liverpool University Hospital and a city centre loop. The \"Merseytram Line 1 Transport and Works Act\" was approved by the then Secretary of State for Transport Alistair Darling in December 2004 and construction of the route was expected to begin with the \"M-Pact\" consortium of GrantRail and Laing O\u2019Rourke selected to do so from 2005. However, due to cost overruns and other associated difficulties, the scheme was cancelled in November 2009.\nEducation.\nThe area is serviced by two secondary schools (11\u201318); Dixons Croxteth Academy (mixed) and St John Bosco Arts College (Catholic Girls). In 2010, a third school, Croxteth Community Comprehensive (Mixed), closed due to poor academic standards and falling pupils numbers, despite local protests and the school achieving higher academic standards in OFSTED reports and on average higher student grades than De La Salle. In June 2008 it was revealed a new \u00a320m \"super-school\" would be built on the site of De La Salle. However, this proposal has since been scrapped.\nNotable residents.\nFormer England footballer Wayne Rooney and his wife Coleen (n\u00e9e McLoughlin) grew up and met in the area. Coleen was a pupil at St John Bosco School and Wayne attended De La Salle School (now Dixons Croxteth Academy).\nOne-time England footballer Francis Jeffers also attended De La Salle School.\nDistance runner Robert Pope, who became the first person to complete the 15,600-mile Forrest Gump run, was born and raised in the area."}
{"id": "732984", "revid": "28903366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732984", "title": "1349 (band)", "text": "1349 is a Norwegian black metal band from Oslo, Norway, formed in 1997. The band's name is a reference to the year the Black Death reached Norway.\nHistory.\n1349 formed in 1997 and comprises several former members of the band Alvheim. Drummer Frost is also a member of Satyricon.\nIn recognition of 1349's influences, the band performed a cover of Mayhem's \"Buried by Time and Dust\" on their debut album, \"Liberation\". At 1349's live shows, the band has also covered Celtic Frost, whom vocalist Ravn cites as his principal influence.\n1349 tours on a regular basis. The band's live shows often begin with Frost and guitarist Archaon breathing fire. In 2006, 1349 toured the US with Celtic Frost. Ravn also appeared on the Celtic Frost album \"Monotheist\" (2006), performing guest vocals on the CD digipack bonus track, \"Temple of Depression\". In 2007, during the French Hellfest festival, 1349 was slated to play during the day, but asked to reschedule their appearance to play in the dark instead. During 1349's appearance at the Oslo Inferno Metal Festival in March 2008, the band was joined on stage by Celtic Frost frontman Tom Gabriel Fischer for a rendition of the Celtic Frost song \"The Usurper\". In September 2008, 1349 toured with Carcass, Suffocation, Aborted and Rotten Sound on the Exhume to Consume Tour.\nA music video for \"Sculptor of Flesh\" was made following the release of \"Hellfire\" (2005). The video, directed by Judd Tilyard, alternates between footage of the band performing the song in Norway and clips of surgery filmed in Australia.\nDuring late 2008, 1349 recorded its fourth album, \"Revelations of the Black Flame\". The album was co-mixed by Tom Gabriel Fischer, and was released in Europe on 25 May 2009. \"Revelations of the Black Flame\" marked a change in direction for the band, as songs on the album were slower than previous releases, and there were also some dark ambient and industrial-tinged tracks.\nAt the beginning of 2010 the band signed a contract with Indie Recordings for the release of its fifth album in Europe, with Prosthetic Records distributing the album in North America.\n1349 toured with Cannibal Corpse, Skeletonwitch, and Lecherous Nocturne on the Evisceration Plague Tour, in April\u2013May 2010. The band also performed at the Wacken Open Air and Summer Breeze Open Air festivals in August 2010.\n1349 released its fifth album, \"Demonoir\", on 26 April 2010. The album shows a return to 1349's earlier sound, before \"Revelations of the Black Flame\", while continuing the low-fi production and ambient sensibilities of \"Revelations\". 1349 toured Canada and the United States with Tom Gabriel Fischer's project Triptykon in October 2010. A deluxe box set of \"Demonoir\" was released in October 2011. The band's first live DVD, titled \"Hellvetia Fire \u2013 The Official 1349 Bootleg\", was released on 24 October 2011 by Candlelight Records. It was filmed at Bikini Test La Chaux De Fonds in Switzerland in 2005.\nIn October 2013, the band began recording their sixth studio album, called \"Massive Cauldron of Chaos\". On 10 December, the band announced that the record was finished, and it was released on 29 September 2014, via Indie Recordings.\nIn February 2017, it was announced that 1349 have now signed to Season of Mist and are now said to be in the process of writing their seventh studio album, which is set to be released in 2019. The first new single from the as yet untitled new album, 'D\u00f8dskamp' was released digitally on 14 January 2019. On 31 July 2019 it was revealed that the band's seventh Studio album would be titled 'The Infernal Pathway'. It was released on 18 October 2019. According to recent updates on the band\u2019s instagram profile in April 2024, they are now in the process of recording their eighth studio album. On 3 May, 2024 the band released the first single from their upcoming album titled \u2018Ash of Ages\u2019. On 9 July 2024, they released a second track \u2018Shadow Point\u2019 as well as full details of their eighth studio album, which will be titled \u2018The Wolf &amp; the King\u2019, and was released on October 4, 2024."}
{"id": "732989", "revid": "5094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732989", "title": "Speech disfluency", "text": "A speech disfluency, also spelled speech dysfluency, is any of various breaks, irregularities, or non-lexical vocables which occur within the flow of otherwise fluent speech. These include \"false starts\", i.e. words and sentences that are cut off mid-utterance; phrases that are restarted or repeated, and repeated syllables; \"fillers\", i.e. grunts, and non-lexical or semiarticulate utterances such as \"uh\", \"erm\", \"um\", and \"hmm\", and, in English, \"well\", \"so\", \"I mean\", and \"like\"; and \"repaired\" utterances, i.e. instances of speakers correcting their own slips of the tongue or mispronunciations (before anyone else gets a chance to). \nDefinition.\nA disfluence or nonfluence is a non-pathological hesitance when speaking, the use of fillers (\u201clike\u201d or \u201cuh\u201d), or the repetition of a word or phrase. This needs to be distinguished from a fluency disorder like stuttering with an interruption of fluency of speech, accompanied by \"excessive tension, speaking avoidance, struggle behaviors, and secondary mannerism\".\nFillers.\nFillers are parts of speech which are not generally recognized as purposeful or containing formal meaning, usually expressed as pauses such as \"uh\", \"like\" and \"er\", but also extending to repairs (\"He was wearing a black\u2014uh, I mean a blue, a blue shirt\"), and articulation problems such as stuttering. Use is normally frowned upon in mass media such as news reports or films, but they occur regularly in everyday conversation, sometimes representing upwards of 20% of \"words\" in conversation. Fillers can also be used as a pause for thought (\"I arrived at, um\u20143 o'clock\"), and when used in this function are called hesitation markers or planners.\nLanguage-dependence.\nResearch in computational linguistics has revealed a correlation between native language and patterns of disfluencies in spontaneously uttered speech. Besides that research, there are other subjective accounts reported by individuals.\nAccording to one commentator, Americans use pauses such as \"um\" or \"em\", the Irish commonly use the pause \"em\", the British say \"uh\" or \"eh\", the French use , the Germans say (pronounced \"eh\" or \"er\"), the Dutch use , Japanese use \u3042\u3042 , \u3042\u306e\u3046 or \u3048\u3048\u3068 , the Spanish say (also used in Hebrew) and (normally meaning 'like'), and Latin Americans but not the Spanish use (normally meaning 'this'). Besides and , the Portuguese use or .\nIn Mandarin, and are used, meaning 'that' or 'this', respectively. Arabic speakers say , the pronunciation of which is close to \"yaa'ni\", or , (literally 'he means'; there is no grammatical gender-neutral third person) and Turkish say in addition to (without the found in Arabic) and .\nDespite the differences between languages, pause fillers in different languages often sound similar because they tend to be the easiest and most neutral vowel sounds to make (such as the schwa), i.e., the sounds that can be pronounced with a relaxed tongue or jaw.\nResearch.\nRecent linguistic research has suggested that non-pathological disfluencies may contain a variety of meaning; the frequency of \"uh\" and \"um\" in English is often reflective of a speaker's alertness or emotional state. Some have hypothesized that the time of an \"uh\" or \"um\" is used for the planning of future words; other researchers have suggested that they are actually to be understood as full-fledged function words rather than accidents, indicating a delay of variable time in which the speaker wishes to pause without voluntarily yielding control of the dialogue. There is some debate as to whether to consider them a form of noise or as a meaning-filled part of language, but disfluency can improve language understanding by signalling that the speaker may be about to say something new or complex.\n\"Hmm\".\nHmm is an exclamation (an emphatic interjection) typically used to express reflection, uncertainty, thoughtful absorption, or hesitation. Hmm is technically categorized as an interjection, like \"um\", \"huh\", \"ouch\", \"erm\", and \"wow\". The first \"h\"-sound is a mimic for breathing out, and the second \"m\"-sound, since the mouth is closed, is representing that the person is not currently sure what to say (\"erm\" and \"um\" are used similarly). The pause filler indicates that the person is temporarily speechless, but still engaged in thought. The variety of tones, pitches, and lengths used add nuances in meaning.\nEtymology.\nThe expression is used in many different languages; however, the origin of \"hmm\" is difficult to find, mainly because \"the word is so natural that it may have arisen at any time\", as highlighted by Anatoly Liberman, a linguist at the University of Minnesota and an expert on word origins. It is possible Neanderthals might have used \"hmm\". Nicholas Christenfeld, a psychologist at the University of California, San Diego, and an expert on filled pauses, attests \"hmm\" is popular largely since it is such a neutral sound and that \"it's easier to say than anything else\". The earliest attestations of \"hmm\" are from Shakespeare, \"I cried hum\u00a0... But markt him not a word\" (1598 Shakespeare Henry IV, Pt. 1 iii. i. 154). It may be a vocable that grew out of lexicalized throat-clearing.\nUse as a filler word.\n\"Hmm\" is a \"filler\" word, like \"um\" and \"er\". Typically, \"hmm\" is uttered when the person is being especially conscious about whom they are talking with, and as a result are thinking deeply about what to say. Moreover, the use of \"hmm\" is often interactional and cognitive. The interactional function is to do with politeness: if someone is invited to a party and responds \"no\" without a filled pause, they might appear rude, but a reply of \"Hmm, sorry, no\" might appear much more polite, as it seems the speaker is giving the offer some thought, rather than abruptly declining.\nThoughtful absorption.\nThe use of \"hmm\" is typically used during \"thoughtful absorption\", which is when one is engrossed in their flow of ideas and associations, that lead to a reality-oriented conclusion. The utterance of \"hmm\" is key for listeners to understand that the speaker is currently engaged in thought; if the speaker thought silently instead, listeners may be unsure if the speaker had finished their utterance. \"Um\" and \"er\" are also used during thoughtful absorption; however, typically the extent of the absorption of thought is more limited since \"um\" and \"er\" are usually spoken mid-sentence and for shorter periods of time than \"hmm\". For this reason, thoughtful absorption is typically associated with the utterance of \"hmm\"."}
{"id": "732991", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732991", "title": "Miguel Abia Biteo Boric\u00f3", "text": "Miguel Abia Biteo Boric\u00f3 (11 January 1961 \u2013 6 December 2012) was an Equatoguinean politician. He was the 5th Prime Minister of Equatorial Guinea having served from 11 July 2004 to 14 August 2006. He was a member of the Bubi ethnic group.\nAbia Biteo was born in 1961 in Santiago de Bane, which is part of the island of Bioko Norte, in then Spanish Guinea. He was a part of the Bubi ethnic group, becoming one of the first Bubi politicians as they have previously not had an active role in politics. Abia Biteo lived and studied in the Soviet Union, where he became a mining engineer. After returning to Equatorial Guinea he began to work for the government and became one of the most powerful officials in his country's oil industry, becoming one of the signatories of the first oil agreements between Equatorial Guinea and American companies and help shaped the country's oil policy. During the 1990s he held the position of Director at the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons and was also Secretary of State in that ministry.\nHe was Minister of Finance from 1999 until 2000, when he was forced to resign following a corruption scandal. \nAbia Biteo served as Minister of State in charge of Relations with Parliament and Legal Affairs of the Presidency prior to being appointed Prime Minister on 11 July 2004; his government was announced on 14 July. He married Isabel Erauel Ivina, the daughter of the Mayor of Malabo, in 2005.\nPresident Obiang directed serious criticism at Abia Biteo during 2006, and his government resigned on 10 August 2006. Ricardo Mangue Obama Nfubea was appointed to succeed him on 14 August. \nAbia Biteo remained tortured in Black Beach prison in Malabo as of 2007 and died on 6 December 2012 apparently due to a cardiac arrest."}
{"id": "732992", "revid": "46591300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732992", "title": "Adlai Stevenson III", "text": "Adlai Ewing Stevenson III (October 10, 1930 \u2013 September 6, 2021) was an American attorney and politician from Illinois. A member of the Democratic Party, he served as a member of the United States Senate from 1970 to 1981. A member of the prominent Stevenson family, he also served as a member of the Illinois House of Representatives and Illinois Treasurer. He unsuccessfully ran for governor of Illinois in 1982 and 1986. He had been awarded Japan\u2019s Order of the Sacred Treasure with gold and silver stars and was an honorary Professor of Renmin University of China.\nEarly life, education, and early career (1930\u20131964).\nAdlai Stevenson III was born in Chicago to Ellen Stevenson and two-time Democratic Party presidential nominee Adlai Stevenson II. He attended Milton Academy in Massachusetts, Harrow School in England, and Harvard College. He received a law degree in 1957 from Harvard Law School. Stevenson was commissioned as a lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps in 1952, served in Korea and was discharged from active duty in 1954. He continued to serve in the Marine Reserve and was discharged in 1961 as a captain. In 1957, Stevenson went to work as a clerk for a Justice of the Supreme Court of Illinois and worked there until 1958 when he joined the law firm of Brown and Platt.\nEarly political career (1964\u20131970).\nState politics.\nIllinois House of Representatives.\nStevenson was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives in the 1964 Illinois House of Representatives election, which was held at-large due to the state's failure to redistrict. With 2,417,978 votes, he received the most votes of any candidate (by a margin of 7,613 more votes than the next candidate). More than half of ballots cast in the statewide general election included a vote for Stevenson.\nStevenson served in the Illinois House from 1965 to 1967. During his time in the state house, he won a Best Legislator award from the Independent Voters of Illinois.\nTreasurer of Illinois.\nIn 1966, Stevenson was elected treasurer of Illinois. As state treasurer, he quadrupled earnings on the investment of state funds while cutting the budget each year.\nUnited States Senate (1970\u20131981).\nElections.\n1970.\nFollowing the death of incumbent U.S. Senator Everett Dirksen in 1969, Stevenson ran for his seat. He faced former state representative Ralph T. Smith in the general election, who was appointed to the seat by Gov. Richard B. Ogilvie. Stevenson defeated Smith in a 1970 special election by 545,336 votes, to fill Dirksen's unexpired term.\n1974.\nIn 1974, Stevenson ran for re-election, and faced Republican George Burditt in the general election. He defeated Burditt by 726,612 votes.\nCommittee assignments.\nIn the Senate, Stevenson served on the Commerce Committee (Chairman of the Subcommittee on Science, Technology and Space), Banking Committee (Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Finance) and Intelligence Committee (Chairman, Subcommittee on the Collection and Production of Intelligence). He was the first Chairman of the United States Senate Select Committee on Ethics charged with implementing a code of ethics he helped draft. Stevenson was also chairman of a Special Senate Committee which led the first major reorganization of the Senate since its Committee system was formed in the early 19th Century.\nTenure.\nStevenson took his seat on November 17, 1970.\nVietnam War.\nStevenson opposed the Vietnam War. He condemned Democratic President Lyndon B. Johnson\u2019s Indochina policies and the violent police tactics at the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago, renewed his attacks on Republican President Richard Nixon\u2019s prosecution of the war. He also introduced legislation requiring an end to all aid to South Vietnam by June 30, 1975.\nWatergate scandal.\nStevenson was highly critical of Republican President Richard Nixon during the Watergate scandal. He called on Nixon to answer for the integrity of the country\u2019s leaders. \u201cAll of us \u2014 Republicans and Democrats \u2014 have an interest in clearing the record,\" he said a year before Nixon resigned in disgrace. \u201cThe faith of the people in their system and their leaders \u2014 a faith that has already been shaken enough \u2014 is at stake.\"\nLegislative accomplishments.\nStevenson authored the International Banking Act of 1978, the Stevenson\u2013Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 and its companion, the Bayh\u2013Dole Act, to foster cooperative research, organize national laboratories for technology utilization and commercialization, and permit private sector interests in government-funded research. He was the first chairman of the United States Senate Select Committee on Ethics charged with implementing a code of ethics he helped draft. Stevenson was also chairman of a special Senate committee that reorganized the Senate and served on the United States Senate Democratic Policy Committee. He also conducted the first in-depth congressional study of terrorism as chairman of the Subcommittee on the Collection and Production of Intelligence, leading to introduction of the Comprehensive Counter Terrorism Act of 1971. He warned of \"spectacular acts of disruption and destruction\" and an amendment that proposed reducing assistance for Israel by $200 million. His amendment received seven votes.\nViews on Israel.\nStevenson was initially a strong supporter of Israel, but was critical of the influence of American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) on US politics. Stevenson had sharp differences with the Israeli lobby on issues concerning the Middle East, including a 1979 vote to cut military assistance to Israel by 10 percent and support of a 1978 weapons sale to Saudi Arabia. AIPAC also criticized his meeting with PLO leader Yasser Arafat.\nIn a letter to Jewish leader Hyman Bookbinder in 1980, Stevenson wrote:\"It is the Israeli lobby, led by AIPAC, which I deplore. It does not speak for all Jewry, including Israeli Jewry. Yet it exercises an inordinate degree of influence with weak public officials. I deplore their subservience to the vagaries of a foreign government.\"\n1976 Presidential election.\nPresidential bid.\nStevenson was encouraged to run for president in 1976, which was fueled by Richard J. Daley of Chicago, who resented the senator\u2019s liberal reforms, but who recognized Stevenson as being a vote-getter. The senator declined to campaign, but as the nominating process got underway, Daley forces ran him as a favorite son candidate.\nVice presidential finalist.\nDespite this, former governor Jimmy Carter of Georgia locked up the nomination before the 1976 Democratic National Convention, in New York City. Stevenson was, however, one of the finalists for vice president at the convention, though Carter eventually chose U.S. Senator Walter Mondale from Minnesota.\nRetirement.\nStevenson opted to not run for reelection in 1980 and returned to Illinois to practice law.\nPost-Senate life and career (1981\u20132021).\nGubernatorial bids.\nStevenson ran for governor of Illinois in 1982 and 1986, losing both elections to James R. Thompson.\n1982.\nIn the 1982 campaign, Stevenson complained that Thompson was trying to portray him as an ineffectual elitist by famously stating, \"He is saying 'Me tough guy,' as if to imply that I\u2019m some kind of wimp.\" The initial vote count showed Stevenson winning; however, the final official count showed him losing by 0.14 percent. Stevenson promptly petitioned the Illinois Supreme Court for a recount and presented evidence of widespread election irregularities, including evidence of a failed punch card system for tabulation of votes. Three days before the gubernatorial inauguration, the court denied the recount in a 4-3 ruling, asserting that the Illinois recount statute was unconstitutional.\n1986.\nIn the 1986 statewide Democratic primaries, Democratic voters nominated allies of Lyndon LaRouche for lieutenant governor and secretary of state. Stevenson objected to their platform and refused to appear on the same ticket. Instead, he organized the Illinois Solidarity Party to provide an alternate slate for governor, lieutenant governor, and secretary of state, which was endorsed by Democratic Party of Illinois. Persuading Democrats to vote for most of the Democratic ticket as well as the Solidarity candidates for governor, lieutenant governor, and secretary of state was an unconventional strategy; however, Stevenson and the candidate for lieutenant governor position, Mike Howlett, won 40% of the vote.\nLater career.\nBusiness and cultural relations.\nAfter leaving the Senate, Stevenson was active in business and cultural relations with East Asia. He was chairman of SC&amp;M Investment Management Corporation, and co-chairman of HuaMei Capital Company (the first Chinese-American investment bank).\nNon-profit organizations.\nHe also held many positions with non-profit organizations in this area. He served as chairman of the National Association of Japan\u2013America Societies Society of Chicago, the Midwest U.S.-Japan Association, and the Midwest U.S.-China Association, and as president of the U.S. Committee of the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council (PECC). He was also co-chairman of the PECC's Financial Market Development Project, a member of the U.S.-Korea Wisemen Council, and sat on the board of directors of the Korea Institute for International Economic Policy. He was also chairman of the international Adlai Stevenson Center on Democracy housed at the family home, a national historic landmark, near Libertyville, Illinois. Stevenson was also a member of the ReFormers Caucus of Issue One.\nUNPA proposal.\nOn December 8, 2012, aged 82, Stevenson endorsed the proposal for the United Nations Parliamentary Assembly (UNPA), one of only six persons who served in the United States Congress ever to do so.\nDeath.\nStevenson died from complications of Lewy body dementia at his home in Chicago on September 6, 2021, at age 90.\nPersonal life.\nFamily.\nStevenson's great-grandfather Adlai E. Stevenson I was Vice President of the United States (1893\u20131897) during Grover Cleveland's second term. His grandfather Lewis Stevenson was Illinois secretary of state (1914\u20131917). His father, Adlai Stevenson II, was governor of Illinois, Ambassador to the United Nations, and two-time Democratic presidential nominee. Actor McLean Stevenson was his third cousin.\nMarriage and children.\nStevenson met his future wife, Nancy Anderson, in 1953 while he was in tank training at Fort Knox in preparation for his deployment to Japan and then Korea. The couple was married in 1955 at Nancy\u2019s home outside of Louisville. Together, they had four children. His son Adlai Stevenson IV is a business executive and former journalist. Though Adlai IV had expressed his intention to be \"Adlai the last,\" his son, Adlai Ewing Stevenson V, was born in the summer of 1994.\nAwards.\nStevenson has been honored with a number of awards, which include :"}
{"id": "732993", "revid": "39374154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732993", "title": "Sune Eriksson", "text": "Sune Eriksson (born 19 March 1939) is a politician who served as the Premier of \u00c5land Islands, an autonomous and unilingually Swedish territory of Finland."}
{"id": "732995", "revid": "153314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732995", "title": "African Institute Of Mathematical Sciences", "text": ""}
{"id": "732996", "revid": "43059617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732996", "title": "Andr\u00e9-Gilles Fortin", "text": "Andr\u00e9-Gilles Fortin (; November 13, 1943 \u2013 June 24, 1977) was a Canadian politician. Fortin was a member of the House of Commons of Canada for Lotbini\u00e8re. He was first elected in the 1968 federal election for the Ralliement Cr\u00e9ditiste, which in 1971 merged with the Social Credit Party of Canada.\nFortin was elected leader of the party on November 7, 1976, after his popular predecessor, R\u00e9al Caouette, was forced to resign due to illness. The party was then struggling, having lost almost all its support in the west and in decline in Quebec where its members were divided between support for Canadian federalism and for sovereignty association for Quebec, a position supported by Ren\u00e9 Matte whom Fortin defeated for the leadership. Fortin's efforts to rebuild the party were cut short when he was killed after only eight months as leader.\nFortin died in a car crash at about three in the morning on June 24, 1977, at the age of 33. It is believed that he fell asleep while driving and his car went off the highway, where it missed a bridge and jumped over a river, slamming into the embankment on the other side. The accident took place on the Trans-Canada Highway between Montreal and Quebec City. At the time of his death, he had two young children.\nR\u00e9al Caouette's son, Gilles Caouette, became acting leader of the party five days later.\nArchives.\nThere is a Andr\u00e9-Gilles Fortin fonds at Library and Archives Canada. Archival reference number is R7123."}
{"id": "732998", "revid": "49678260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732998", "title": "Project Pitchfork", "text": "Project Pitchfork are a German dark wave and electronic music group from Hamburg, Germany.\nHistory.\nFirst years (1990\u20131994).\nProject Pitchfork were formed by Peter Spilles and Dirk Scheuber. After agreeing to work together, they picked the project's name by choosing a random word from the dictionary. The band gave their first performance in Hamburg in February 1990 and released their demo, \"K.N.K.A\", in August. In May 1991, their debut album \"Dhyani\" was released. The band's second album, \"Lam-'Bras\" was released in February 1992 and yielded the first vocal appearance of Patrica Nigiani. Six months later, the band's third album, \"Entities\" was released. The band switched labels to Off Beat for their 1994 release \"Io\". The album featured two singles, \"Renascence\" and \"Carrion\", and marked the first time the band entered the German Charts. The album was followed by a lengthy German tour.\nThe development years and success (1995\u20132002).\nIn 1995, Project Pitchfork established their own label, Candyland Entertainment, through which they would release the majority of their material as well as some side projects and bands such as Philtron and Deep Red. 1995 also saw the release of two EPs, \"CH'I\" and \"Corps d'Amour\", and one album, \"Alpha Omega\". The year finished off with a tour supported by Rammstein. The next Project Pitchfork studio album \"\u00a1Chakra:Red!\" was released in 1997. It was the first album since \"Dhyani\" to be written as a group effort, rather than by Peter Spilles alone, and the first to include J\u00fcrgen Jansen as a permanent band member.\nImmediately after their first US tour in 1998, Project Pitchfork returned with concept album \"\", their first while signed to label EastWest, an imprint of the major label Warner Music. The album yielded three singles, \"Steelrose\", \"Carnival\", and \"I Live Your Dream\". With the support of EastWest, the band had greater resources available to produce videos for their music, which led to their being the first gothic industrial band to receive airplay on music TV in Germany. The video for \"Steelrose\" earned the band a nomination for an Echo Award for Best Video National.\nBetween 1998 and 2001 the band built out their own studio which gave them more time to develop their next release. In 2001, the band released their eighth studio album \"Daimonion\" and supported the album with a European tour. In 2002 the band released the \"NUN\" trilogy which consisted of album \"Inferno\" and EPs \"View From a Throne\" and \"Trialog\". This earned the band another nomination for an Echo Award, this time for Best Alternative Act National.\nRecent years (2003\u2013present).\nProject Pitchfork returned with album Kaskade in 2005. In February 2009 the band released \"Dream, Tiresias!\" which received praise from electronic music magazine, ReGen. In 2010 the band's follow up album \"Continuum Ride\" was released along with a video to support the song \"Beholder.\" \"Continuum Ride\" was inspired by the band's US tour in 2009, particularly their experience of Detroit, whose dilapidated skyline led to a more \"dark and destructive\" sound than that of their previous album. By 2011 Project Pitchfork ceased operating their Candyland label, having since begun releasing their work on the Trisol label.\nThe band released \"Quantum Mechanics\" in 2011 as well as a video for the album's second track, \"Lament\". Later that year the band released a compilation album titled \"First Anthology\". In 2013 the band released their fourteenth studio album, \"Black\", and a music video to accompany the song \"Rain\". In June 2014, the band announced via their official website a new album titled \"Blood\". To promote the record the band held a pre-release show in Hamburg. The album was released in September and featured a music video for \"Blood-Diamond (See Him Running)\" edited by Peter Spilles himself.\nIn 2016, Project Pitchfork released their \"Second Anthology\", a double CD that included one new track, several unreleased rarities, and many re-recorded and remastered tracks. Also in 2016, the band released the album \"Look Up, I\u2019m Down There\" to commemorate their 25th anniversary. The album was released in two versions: a standard CD release and a special, limited edition double CD with an 80-page art book containing complete lyrics and a short story by the fantasy author Bj\u00f6rn Springorum.\nIn 2018, the band released the album \"Akkretion\", the first of what was planned to be a trilogy of albums for release that year. On 12 October 2018, the second part of the trilogy, \"Fragment\", was released.\nStarting in 2019, Trisol began releasing reissues of all the band's material over the previous decade from \"Dream, Tiresias!\" through \"Look Up, I'm Down There\".\nOn 2 March 2021 the band announced that cofounder and keyboardist Dirk Scheuber had left the band.\nIn 2024 the band release \u201cElysium\u201d the third and final act of cosmic electro trilogy that started with \u201cAkkretion\u201d. To support the album release the band will commence a German tour in April 2024 with one date in the UK during May and will play various festivals."}
