{"id": "731201", "revid": "10202399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731201", "title": "Saab Ursaab", "text": "Ursaab (lit. \"Proto-Saab\"), also known as 92001 and X9248, was the first of four prototype cars made by Saab AB, which at that time was solely an aeroplane manufacturer, leading to production of the first Saab car, the Saab 92 in 1949. The car is now in the Saab Car Museum in Trollh\u00e4ttan. The name \"Ursaab\" means \"original Saab\".\nThe model was developed by a 16-person team led by engineer Gunnar Ljungstr\u00f6m and designer Sixten Sason.\nDesign.\nAn automobile design project was started in 1945 by Saab AB, a manufacturer of warplanes, with the internal name X9248. The design project became formally known as Project 92; the 92 being next in production sequence after the Saab 91, a single engine trainer aircraft. The aim was to design a car that would compete with small German cars like Opel Kadett, VW Beetle, DKW and Adler. The target consumer price was 3200 SEK. Bror Bjurstr\u00f6mer, who was then head of the design department, developed a 1:25 scale sketch and the overall design specifications, which included the following: a wheelbase of and total length of ; employment of a monocoque design; 50% less drag than other cars; 800 kilogram maximum weight; power from a transverse-mounted two-stroke engine; and front-wheel drive. The choice of rear-hinged doors was made by Gunnar Ljungstr\u00f6m (head of the development team) as he wanted to lessen the risk of damaging doors whilst driving out of a garage. The company made four prototypes, 92001 through to 92004, before designing the production model, the Saab 92, in 1949.\nDevelopment.\nDevelopment was started in Link\u00f6ping by a 16-person team led by engineer Gunnar Ljungstr\u00f6m and designer Sixten Sason. The immediately preceding Saab production code was for an aeroplane - the Saab 91 Safir. It was for this reason that the first car project was called the Saab 92. Normally the development would have been handled by the testing workshop, but it was busy with the Saab 91 Safir and the Saab 90 Scandia. Thus the tool workshop, which had a lighter workload at that juncture, was given the assignment.\nThe engineers responsible for making the prototype had no prior experience in making cars, and out of the 16 engineers only two had a driving licence. They needed information about the car manufacturing process, but had to simultaneously keep the project secret. A few visits were made to \"Nyk\u00f6pings Automobilfabrik\" (later ANA), but as the extent of their work involved the simple installation of bodies on imported ladder frame chassis, the engineers were not able to gather as much information as they had hoped. Also, since all available literature only described how cars were made before the war, they realised that much of the manufacturing process would have to be learned on their own. Close to SAAB's factory a junkyard provided the engineers with both parts and inspiration. They also purchased a number of cars to study, including a DKW, a Hanomag, an Opel Kadett and a Volkswagen.\nStructural integrity concerns led to other design decisions. The team tasked with that portion of the project was used to building aircraft where every opening was covered with a load-bearing hatch. Since this was not viable on an automobile, it was decided that the body structure should be strengthened through the use of a rear window that was as small as possible and which used a split-window design, and omission of a rear bootlid.\nBecause the car had to have a very low drag coefficient,0.3, which even today is considered very impressive, aerodynamic tests were part of the early evaluations. Thus, the body was of novel design and, with safety in mind, it provided damage-resistance in the event of an accident. Winter driving capability was enhanced via front-wheel-drive and wide wheel arches which allowed for snow accumulation without obstruction of the wheels.\nConstruction.\nUsing some carpenters from Motala, a full size mock-up in alder wood was built in the spring of 1946. The model was coloured black using shoe polish. Some extra workers were recruited from \"Thorells Kylarfabrik\" in Link\u00f6ping for building the steel body. Hand-shaping the 1.2\u00a0mm thick steel sheets proved to be difficult work. By summer 1946 the first prototype body was ready, hand beaten on a wooden jig. Shaping of the metal was done in Saab's secret factory 30 metres below ground.\nThe colour was a problem - the Managing Director wanted it painted black, but the vice MD wanted it blue. But the workshop had already purchased black paint, making it a moot point. The SAAB paint workshop did not have the capacity to handle the paint job so the builders contacted \"Aktiebolaget Svenska J\u00e4rnv\u00e4gsverkst\u00e4derna\" (ASJ), the Swedish railroad works in Arl\u00f6v. This firm was experienced in painting railway cars and buses. Having been told that their assistance was needed in painting a car, the company was initially reluctant to help since it was thought that the vehicle was a management car such as a DeSoto or something that would take a lot of time. However, when it was learned that the vehicle was a prototype of a new car, ASJ quickly took the job.\nThe prototype had a borrowed 13 kW (18 hp) two-cylinder two-stroke engine, which was placed transversely in the front of the vehicle. The first engine and gearbox came from a DKW vehicle, but they were later replaced with an engine and gearbox designed by Gunnar Ljungstr\u00f6m. The prototype engine blocks were made by Albinmotor. The head of the firm, Albin Larsson, was hesitant to take work since the cooling pipes in the engine block were considered to be complicated. After test driving the prototype, however, Larsson changed his mind.\nUrsaab was driven over , typically in utter secrecy, and usually on narrow and muddy forest roads and in early mornings or late nights. Today it is in the Saab museum in Trollh\u00e4ttan, with a cleaned grille and more roadworthy headlights. The name \"Ursaab\" means \"original Saab\".\nThe Ursaab design was improved by Sixten Sason in 1947, resulting in another prototype: the 92002. The most remarkable difference between 92001 and 92002 is the hood (bonnet). The earlier hood design and the use of a hood mechanism from an Opel Kadett made removal of the engine difficult, as one would have to turn it 90 degrees and bring out the drive package with the gearbox first. Inspired by American cars that had cascading front-ends, the redesigned hood allowed for improved access to the engine bay. After an additional four prototypes the design was ready for production as the Saab 92. Ursaab was first shown to the press on June 10, 1947 at Saab AB's headquarters."}
{"id": "731210", "revid": "46560641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731210", "title": "L (New York City Subway service)", "text": "The L 14th Street\u2013Canarsie Local is a rapid transit service in the B Division of the New York City Subway. Its route emblem, or \"bullet\", is colored since it serves the BMT Canarsie Line.\nThe L operates 24 hours daily between Eighth Avenue in Chelsea, Manhattan, and Rockaway Parkway in Canarsie, Brooklyn, making all stops along the full route. It also briefly enters Queens at Halsey Street, serving the neighborhood of Ridgewood. It is the first New York City Subway service to be automated using communications-based train control.\nThe L commenced its current route and service pattern upon completion of the Canarsie Line in 1928. Express trains formerly ran along the L's trackage in central Brooklyn, running along the BMT Fulton Street Line in eastern Brooklyn, but were discontinued in 1956. Since then, the L has been entirely local.\nThe L was originally the Brooklyn\u2013Manhattan Transit Corporation's 16 service. The 16 became the LL in 1967 and then the L in 1985. In the early 2000s, the L saw a dramatic increase in ridership since many neighborhoods along the route have experienced gentrification. From April 2019 to April 2020, late-night and weekend L service between Manhattan and Brooklyn was temporarily reduced as part of the 14th Street Tunnel shutdown, which sought to repair damage to the 14th Street Tunnel incurred by Hurricane Sandy in 2012.\nHistory.\nEarly history.\n1924\u20131967.\nThe L was originally given the LL designation when letters were assigned to the BMT division. From 1928 to 1967, the same service was assigned the BMT number 16.\nIn 1924, part of the eventual 14th Street\u2013Canarsie Line opened, called the \"14th Street\u2013Eastern District Line\" (commonly the \"14th Street\u2013Eastern Line\"), and was given the number 16. This was extended east, and in 1928 it was joined to the existing BMT Canarsie Line east of Broadway Junction. Since that time, the 14th Street\u2013Canarsie Line service has operated as it is today, except for an extension from Sixth Avenue to Eighth Avenue, which opened on May 30, 1931, to connect to the new Eighth Avenue Subway. The Eighth Avenue Terminal was originally built in IND style and has been restored to BMT style like Fulton Street and Broad Street. During rush hours, express service ran nonstop between Lorimer Street and Myrtle\u2013Wyckoff Avenues. (Locals usually ran from Eighth Avenue to Myrtle\u2013Wyckoff Avenues or Atlantic Avenue at these times.)\nBefore the 14th Street\u2013Eastern and Canarsie Lines were connected, the Canarsie part of the line already had a number, 14, running from Lower Manhattan via the Broadway Elevated and called the \"Canarsie Line\". When the 14th Street\u2013Eastern Line was connected in 1928, this was renamed the \"Broadway (Brooklyn) Line\", but continued to operate to Rockaway Parkway.\nStarting on September 23, 1936, express trains ran to Lefferts Boulevard via the connection with the Fulton Street Elevated at Atlantic Avenue. This connection was severed on April 30, 1956, then the service ran to Rockaway Parkway again, but was discontinued on August 23. The R27 to R38's roll signs had both L and LL for express and local service, even though the express never ran thereafter.\n1967\u20131985.\nOn November 26, 1967, with the opening of the Chrystie Street Connection, the BMT Eastern Division lines were given letters. The 14 to Canarsie was given the label (though the 14 main line was designated , continuing east from Broadway Junction towards Jamaica). On the other hand, the 16 became the LL. Canarsie service to Lower Manhattan was discontinued in 1968. When double letters were dropped on May 5, 1985, the LL became the L, and it still has that designation.\nSkip-stop service proposal.\nIn January 1991, skip-stop service was proposed to speed service during the height of rush hours in the peak direction which would have reduced the running time from 41 minutes to 37 minutes. Under this plan, the K designation, which was previously used as the Broadway Brooklyn Local from 1967 to 1976, and as the Eighth Avenue Local from 1985 to 1988, would be repurposed and would appear in a gray bullet similar to the color the L uses. Both services would have common stops at Rockaway Parkway, Broadway Junction (then called Eastern Parkway), Myrtle Avenue, Lorimer Street, First Avenue, Union Square, Sixth Avenue and Eighth Avenue. L trains would stop at East 105th Street, Livonia Avenue, Atlantic Avenue, Wilson Avenue, DeKalb Avenue, Morgan Avenue, Grand Street, and Bedford Avenue; K trains would stop at New Lots Avenue, Sutter Avenue, Bushwick Avenue\u2013Aberdeen Street, Halsey Street, Jefferson Street, Montrose Avenue, Graham Avenue and Third Avenue. This change was proposed as a service improvement alongside other changes that would have either reduced or eliminated service to balance the MTA's operational budget and would have been implemented in October 1991, pending approval from the MTA board.\nModernization and rehabilitation.\nRidership and CBTC.\nRidership on the L has increased dramatically since 2000 since many neighborhoods along the route have experienced gentrification. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's $443 million fleets of subway cars on the L was introduced in 2002, but by 2006 was already too small to handle growing ridership. The Transit Authority had projected that 212 Kawasaki-made R143 subway cars would be enough to accommodate ridership demands for years to come, but ridership has risen higher than expected. Therefore, sixty-four new R160A cars manufactured by Alstom were equipped with CBTC so they could run on the L.\nThe BMT Canarsie Line tracks underwent an extensive retrofit over to CBTC, a system that controls the trains via a computer onboard, as opposed manually operated by a human operator. This was completed in early 2009. While the retrofit has resulted in nearly two years of service changes and station closings, this system will eventually allow trains to run closer together and enables in-station \"countdown clock\" displays to note the exact time until the next train arrives. The line also used OPTO (one person train operation) beginning in June 2005, but a combination of public outcry regarding perceived safety issues, which increased after the July 2005 London tube bombings, heavy lobbying by the Transport Workers Union of America (TWU), as well as an arbitration ruling that MTA had breached its contract with TWU caused the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to end OPTO the following September. However, the MTA's successful implementation of countdown clocks on the L was the first in the system.\nOn April 27, 2003, midday L service was reduced to run every 8 minutes instead of every 6 minutes.\n14th Street Tunnel shutdown.\nStarting April 27, 2019, L service was limited between Third Avenue and Bedford Avenue on late nights and weekends to allow for repairs on the Canarsie Line tunnels under the East River, which were badly damaged by Hurricane Sandy in 2012. Trains in both directions operated on one tube between Third and Bedford Avenues while late night and weekend work was done on the other tube. The original plan was for a full 15-month closure with both tubes closed simultaneously west of Bedford Avenue, but the plans were revised in January 2019. On April 26, 2020, New York governor Andrew Cuomo announced the completion of the project, months ahead of schedule.\nRoute.\nService pattern.\nThe L uses the following lines with the same service pattern at all times.\nStations.\nThe L runs on the BMT Canarsie Line in its entirety."}
{"id": "731217", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731217", "title": "Joe Kelley", "text": "Joseph James Kelley (December 9, 1871 \u2013 August 14, 1943) was an American left fielder in Major League Baseball (MLB) who starred in the outfield of the Baltimore Orioles teams of the 1890s. Making up the nucleus of the Orioles along with John McGraw, Willie Keeler, and Hughie Jennings, Kelley received the nickname \"Kingpin of the Orioles\".\nIn his MLB career, Kelley played in the National League (NL) for the Boston Beaneaters (1891), Pittsburgh Pirates (1892), Baltimore Orioles (1892\u20131898), and Brooklyn Superbas (1899\u20131901), before he jumped to the upstart American League to play for the Baltimore Orioles (1902). He returned to the NL with Cincinnati Reds (1902\u20131906) and Boston Doves (1908). Kelley served as player-manager of the Reds (1902\u20131905) and Doves (1908). After extending his career in the minor leagues, he coached the Brooklyn Robins (1926), and scouted for the New York Yankees (1915\u20131916).\nKelley was regarded as an excellent batter, a good base runner, and a great leader. Over his seventeen-season MLB career, Kelley had a .317 batting average, and batted over .300 in eleven consecutive seasons. Kelley stole a career-high 87 bases in the 1896 season, which led MLB. He finished in the league's top ten in categories such as batting average, home runs, runs batted in (RBI), and stolen bases numerous times. He served as team captain of the Orioles and the Superbas. In recognition of his career achievements, Kelley was elected a member of the National Baseball Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee in 1971.\nEarly life.\nJoseph James Kelley was born on December 9, 1871, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to Patrick Kelly and Ann Kelly (n\u00e9e Carney) in Cambridge, Massachusetts on December 9, 1871. Kelley's parents emigrated to the United States from Ireland, and he had five siblings. According to the 1880 United States census, Patrick worked as a marble cutter.\nAs a child, Kelley was educated at a parochial grammar school and St. Thomas Aquinas College in Cambridge, where he starred for the school's baseball team as a pitcher. He worked for a local piano manufacturer and the John P. Lowell Arms Company. He practiced with the Harvard Crimson, the college baseball team of Harvard University, and played semi-professional baseball for the Lowell Arms Company.\nProfessional career.\nMinor leagues.\nKelley made his professional debut with the Lowell Indians of the New England League (NEL) in 1891, at age 19. During games he did not pitch, Lowell's manager put him in the lineup as an infielder. Kelley had a 10\u20133 win\u2013loss record and a NEL-leading .323 batting average with Lowell.\nBoston Beaneaters (1891).\nLowell folded in July. Three days later, Kelley signed with the Boston Beaneaters of the National League (NL). Kelley made his major league debut in August 1891 with the Beaneaters. After batting .244 in twelve games played, the Beaneaters released Kelley after the season. Kelley began the 1892 season with the Omaha Omahogs of the Class\u2013A Western League, turning down a $1,200 salary ($ in current dollar terms) from the Oakland Oaks of the Pacific Coast League. With Omaha, Kelley batted .316 with 19 stolen bases in 58 games.\nPittsburgh Pirates (1892).\nThe Pittsburgh Pirates of the NL purchased Kelley's contract from Omaha for $500 ($ in current dollar terms) on July 2, 1892.\nBaltimore Orioles (NL) (1892\u20131898).\nNed Hanlon, new manager of the Baltimore Orioles, traded George Van Haltren to the Pirates for Kelley and $2,000 ($ in current dollar terms) in September 1892. Hanlon had succeeded Van Haltren as Orioles' manager during the season; remaining with the Orioles as a player, Van Haltren openly criticized Hanlon. Hanlon mentioned that he \"had [his] eye on Kelley for a long time.\"\nHanlon taught Kelley how to play center field. During the 1893 season, Kelley batted .305, with 120 runs scored, and stole 33 bases. He finished ninth in the NL with a .476 slugging percentage (SLG), and tied Eddie Burke for ninth in home runs with 9. The Orioles won the NL pennant in 1894, 1895, and 1896. Kelley moved to left field in 1894 with the acquisition of Steve Brodie, who played center. That year, he batted .393 with 111 runs batted in (RBI), 199 hits, and 165 runs scored, tying teammate Willie Keeler for second in runs and finishing sixth in batting average and eighth in hits. Combined with 107 walks, which were tied for second most in the NL with Cupid Childs and behind only Billy Hamilton, Kelley posted a .502 on-base percentage (OBP), finishing second in the NL to Hamilton, and hit 48 doubles, good for second in the NL, behind only Hugh Duffy. His .602\u00a0SLG was the fourth best in the NL.\nThese Orioles teams, led by John McGraw, were known to break the rules in order to win, including tampering with their bats and the playing field. Kelley hid baseballs in the outfield, using the closest hidden ball instead of finding the ball batted into the outfield. Kelley hit ten home runs in 1895, a then-franchise record, tying him for fifth in the NL with five other players. He also tied Brodie for second with 134 RBI, finished fourth with 54 stolen bases, fifth with a .546 SLG, and sixth with a .456 OBP. In 1896, Kelley finished seventh in the NL in batting average (.364), fourth in runs scored (148), fourth in SLG (.543), fifth in OBP (.469), ninth in hits (189), and tied Gene DeMontreville for eighth in home runs (8).\nIn 1897, Kelley agreed to serve as the coach of the Georgetown Hoyas, the college baseball team of Georgetown University. That year, he finished fifth in the NL in batting average (.362) and RBI (118), seventh in OBP (.447), and eighth in SLG (.489).\nBy 1898, Kelley earned an annual salary of $2,500 ($ in current dollar terms), plus a $200 ($ in current dollar terms) bonus for serving as team captain. He finished third in the league with 110 RBI and ninth with a .438\u00a0SLG. Due to insolvency, the Brooklyn Superbas purchased the Orioles after the 1898 season and transferred Kelley, Hanlon, Keeler, Joe McGinnity, and Hughie Jennings to Brooklyn. Wanting an opportunity to manage, and to remain near Baltimore, Kelley requested a transfer to the Washington Senators, but Washington did not have enough talent to send to Brooklyn to make a trade.\nBrooklyn Superbas (1899\u20131901).\nWith McGraw remaining in Baltimore, Hanlon named Kelley team captain. The Superbas won the NL pennant in 1899 and 1900, as Kelley finished tenth in RBI (93), OBP (.410), and tied several players for tenth in home runs (6) in 1899 and led the team with a .319 batting average in 1900, while finishing fourth in the league in SLG (.485), tying Hickman for seventh in RBI (91), and tying Jimmy Collins and Buck Freeman for tenth in home runs (6).\nKelley moved back to the infield, becoming the regular first baseman in 1901.\nBaltimore Orioles (AL) (1902).\nAfter the 1901 season, Kelley denied reports that he would jump from the Superbas to the Detroit Tigers of the American League (AL), the former Western League which had decided to compete with the NL by creating franchises in east coast cities that housed NL franchises. However, the opportunity to return to Baltimore proved irresistible to Kelley, and after the AL's successful 1901 season, he jumped from the Superbas to the Baltimore Orioles AL. Kelley's father-in-law, John Mahon, was president and principal share holder of the AL's Orioles.\nKelley was named Orioles' captain and received some stock in the team. McGraw, player-manager of the Orioles, resigned from the team to take over as manager of the New York Giants on July 7, 1902. In his absence, Kelley and Wilbert Robinson took over in the interim. Under indefinite suspension by Ban Johnson by July 1902 for fighting with umpires, Kelley entertained the idea of leaving the Orioles with McGraw, who was becoming frustrated with Johnson, and had begun negotiating to join the New York Giants of the NL. With the team in financial straits, Kelley sold his shares of the Orioles to Mahon, who had purchased McGraw's shares when he left for New York, becoming principal shareholder of the Orioles. Mahon then sold controlling interest in the Orioles to Andrew Freedman, principal owner of the Giants, and John T. Brush, principal owner of the Cincinnati Reds, on July 17. On the day they owned the franchise, they released the best players on the Orioles from their contracts so that they could be signed by National League teams: Kelley and Cy Seymour signed with the Reds, while McGinnity, Roger Bresnahan, Dan McGann, and Jack Cronin signed with the Giants. Johnson, along with Orioles minority owners, took control of the Orioles franchise, which had to forfeit their game that day as they did not have enough players. Kelley stated that the Orioles owed $12,000 ($ in current dollar terms), and that selling his shares was the only way Mahon could pay the team's debts.\nCincinnati Reds (1902\u20131906).\nThe Superbas lodged a complaint against the Reds, claiming that Kelley was still under their control, seeking compensation from the Reds. However, the other NL owners saw the situation as a coup for their league, and compelled Hanlon to drop his complaint. Kelley did not immediately report to Cincinnati, instead traveling to Boston to attempt to convince members of the Boston Americans to join him in the NL. Kelley joined the Reds on July 31.\nManagerial career.\nWith rumors that Kelley was negotiating to become the Reds' manager, incumbent manager Bid McPhee resigned, and Kelley succeeded him. Kelley served as manager of the Reds from 1902 until 1905. In 1903, Kelley finished ninth in the NL in OBP (.402). He was dismissed as manager after the 1905 season, and replaced by Hanlon. He remained as a Reds player for the 1906 season. He batted .228 during the 1906 season, and the Reds released him.\nKelley signed with the Toronto Maple Leafs of the Class\u2013AA International League (IL) in 1907, receiving a $5,000 salary ($ in current dollar terms), the highest for a minor league player to date. Kelley batted .322 for the Maple Leafs as a part-time player, spending time in left field and first base. The Maple Leafs won the IL pennant that season.\nBoston Doves (1908).\nWith Fred Tenney set to leave the Boston Doves of the NL for the Giants, the Doves claimed Kelley from the Maple Leafs, signing Kelley to a two-year contract with an annual salary of $5,500 ($ in current dollar terms). Kelley announced that he would play left field. Kelley feuded with Doves' owner George Dovey, as Dovey wanted George Browne fined for \"indifferent play\", which Kelley refused to do. Dovey fired Kelley in December 1908. Kelley threatened legal action against Dovey, stating in the press that Dovey was releasing him to cut salary. Kelley and Dovey settled their case, freeing Kelley from the second year of his Doves contract.\nLater career.\nMaple Leafs president James McCafferey secured Kelley's return to the club in 1909. He played with the Maple Leafs through 1910, managing the Maple Leafs from 1912 to 1914, winning a second pennant in 1912.\nAfter the 1914 season, the Maple Leafs released Kelley. The New York Yankees considered hiring Kelley as their manager after the 1914 season. Kelley scouted for the Yankees in 1915 and 1916. Former teammate Wilbert Robinson, then manager of the Brooklyn Robins, hired Kelley and McGinnity to join his coaching staff for the 1926 MLB season. Kelley and McGinnity were not retained after the season.\nLegacy.\nAs a player, Kelley had 11 consecutive .300-plus seasons during his MLB career. Kelley was also known as a good base runner and stole a career-high 87 bases in 1896. He retired with a career .317 batting, .402 OBP, 65 home runs, 1,421 runs, 1,194 RBI and 443 stolen bases in 1,853 career games. His 194 triples ranks him ninth all-time. Kelley tied Fred Carroll's MLB record with nine hits in a doubleheader, which he presently shares with eight other players.\nAdditionally, he was known as a great leader. He compiled a 338\u2013321 win\u2013loss record as an MLB manager.\nKelley was considered by the Veterans Committee for induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1964, but was not selected. He was voted into the Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee in 1971.\nPersonal life.\nKelley married Margaret Mahon on October 26, 1897. Keeler served as Kelley's best man, and McGraw and Jennings served as groomsmen. Kelley is buried at New Cathedral Cemetery."}
{"id": "731224", "revid": "63286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731224", "title": "Washington Caps (basketball)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731225", "revid": "7903804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731225", "title": "Resistin", "text": "Resistin, also known as adipose tissue-specific secretory factor (ADSF) or C/EBP-epsilon-regulated myeloid-specific secreted cysteine-rich protein (XCP1), is a cysteine-rich peptide hormone that is derived from adipose tissue and, in humans, is encoded by the \"RETN\" gene.\nIn primates, pigs, and dogs, resistin is secreted primarily by immune and epithelial cells, whereas in rodents, it is mainly secreted by adipose tissue. The human resistin pre-peptide consists of 108 amino acid residues, while in mice and rats it is 114 amino acids in length; the molecular weight is approximately 12.5 kDa. Resistin is classified as an adipose-derived hormone (similar to a cytokine), and its physiological role has been widely debated, particularly regarding its involvement in obesity and type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM).\nDiscovery.\nResistin was discovered in 2001 and identified as a hormone produced by adipose tissue, with a role in promoting insulin resistance. Elevated resistin levels were linked to insulin resistance and were shown to increase with obesity, supporting its role in metabolic dysfunction.\nSubsequent studies highlighted resistin's involvement in inflammatory processes and energy homeostasis, indicating a broader physiological role beyond insulin resistance.\nRecent reviews have synthesized these findings, supporting resistin's proposed role in mediating the link between obesity and insulin resistance, as well as its potential contributions to inflammation and metabolic diseases.\nStructure.\nResistin is a cysteine-rich, secreted peptide hormone characterized by a unique multimeric structure. Each resistin monomer consists of a C-terminal, disulfide-rich beta-sandwich \"head\" domain and an N-terminal alpha-helical \"tail\" segment. The head domain adopts a six-stranded jelly-roll topology, forming two three-stranded antiparallel beta-sheets, while the tail segments associate to create three-stranded coiled coils. These monomers assemble into trimers, and further interchain disulfide linkages mediate the formation of tail-to-tail hexamers, resulting in a multimeric assembly stabilized by disulfide bonds. The C-terminal head domain is notable for its positive electrostatic surface and exposed hydrophobic residues, which may contribute to the protein's biological activity, including its antimicrobial properties. In circulation, resistin exists in multiple assembly states, including high-molecular-mass hexamers and lower-molecular-mass trimers, with the oligomeric form in humans showing greater proinflammatory activity. This structural organization is highly conserved within the resistin-like molecule (RELM) family and is thought to underpin resistin's diverse physiological roles.\nFunction.\nResistin is a multifunctional hormone that plays critical roles in metabolic regulation, inflammation, and innate immunity. In humans, resistin is primarily expressed by immune cells such as monocytes and macrophages, where it acts as a pro-inflammatory cytokine by stimulating the production of cytokines including IL-6, IL-1\u03b2, and TNF-\u03b1 through activation of signaling pathways involving the TLR4 and CAP1 receptors.\nBeyond its pro-inflammatory effects, resistin also demonstrates direct antimicrobial activity by damaging bacterial membranes, and it modulates immune responses by recruiting and activating immune cells, promoting chemokine production, and enhancing the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Notably, resistin exhibits bidirectional immunomodulatory properties: while it can amplify inflammation in response to certain stimuli, it can also attenuate excessive inflammatory responses triggered by bacterial products such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), potentially by competing for TLR4 binding or directly neutralizing LPS. This dual functionality positions resistin as an important regulator of host defense and inflammatory balance in both health and disease.\nClinical significance.\nObesity and insulin resistance.\nArguments for.\nMuch of what is hypothesized about a resistin role in energy metabolism and T2DM can be derived from studies showing strong correlations between resistin and obesity. The premise being that serum resistin levels increase with increased adiposity. Conversely, serum resistin levels to decline with decreased adiposity following medical treatment. Specifically, central obesity (waistline adipose tissue) is the region of adipose tissue that contributes most to rising levels of serum resistin. This is significant, considering the link between central obesity and insulin resistance, two marked peculiarities of T2DM.\nAlthough resistin levels increase with obesity, it is questioned whether this increase is responsible for the insulin resistance associated with increased adiposity. Several reports have shown a positive correlation between resistin levels and insulin resistance. This is supported by reports of correlation between resistin levels and subjects with T2DM. If resistin contributes to the pathogenesis of insulin resistance in T2DM, then designing drugs to promote decreased serum resistin in T2DM subjects may deliver therapeutic benefits.\nResistin can increase levels of circulating low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and accelerates LDL accumulation in arteries, increasing risk of heart disease has an adverse impact on the efficacy of statins, the primary drug used to reduce cholesterol in fighting of cardiovascular disease. In the liver, resistin increases LDL production and degrades LDL receptors, impairing the ability to process LDL.\nArguments against.\nThe amount of evidence supporting the resistin link theory between obesity and T2DM is vast. Nevertheless, this theory lacks support from the entire scientific community, as a number of studies present evidence against it. Such studies have found significantly decreased serum concentrations of resistin with increased adiposity, suggesting not only that resistin is downregulated in obese subjects, but also that decreased resistin levels may contribute to the links between obesity and T2DM. Data contradicting the idea that weight loss coincides with decreased serum resistin concentrations have also been presented; such studies instead report that weight loss is associated with marked increases in serum resistin. The idea that resistin links obesity to T2DM is under scrutiny, reports have been made of ubiquitous resistin expression in many tissues, rather than only those characteristic of obesity, such as adipocytes .\nAlthough nearly as many scientists oppose the theory as those who support it , there is sufficient evidence to support the idea that resistin does have some incompletely defined role in energy homeostasis, while also demonstrating properties that help to incite inflammatory responses to sites of infection.\nInflammation.\nInflammation is the first innate immune response to infection or irritation resulting from leukocyte (neutrophils, mast cells, etc.) accumulation and their secretion of inflammatory, biogenic chemicals such as histamine, prostaglandin, and pro-inflammatory cytokines.\nAs cited, it has recently been discovered that resistin also participates in the inflammatory response.\nIn further support of its inflammatory profile, resistin has been shown to increase transcriptional events, leading to an increased expression of several pro-inflammatory cytokines including (but not limited to) interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-12 (IL-12), and tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1 (TNF-\u03b1) in an NF-\u03baB-mediated (nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells-mediated) fashion. It has also been demonstrated that resistin upregulates intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM1) vascular cell-adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM1) and chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2), all of which are occupied in chemotactic pathways involved in leukocyte recruitment to sites of infection. Resistin itself can be upregulated by interleukins and also by microbial antigens such as lipopolysaccharide, which are recognized by leukocytes. Taken together, because resistin is reputed to contribute to insulin resistance, results such as those mentioned suggest that resistin may be a link in the well-known association between inflammation and insulin resistance.\nIn accordance, it is expected that, if resistin does serve as a link between obesity and T2DM while at the same time contributing to the inflammatory response, then proportional increases in chronic inflammation in association with obesity and insulin resistance should be observed. Recent data has shown that this is possible by demonstrating positive correlations between obesity, insulin resistance, and chronic inflammation, which is believed to be directed in part by resistin signaling. This idea has recently been challenged by a study showing that increased levels of resistin in people with chronic kidney disease are associated with lowered renal function and inflammation, but not with insulin resistance. Notwithstanding, regarding resistin and the inflammatory response, it can be concluded that resistin does bear features of a pro-inflammatory cytokine, and could act as a key node in inflammatory diseases with or without associated insulin resistance.\nThis adipokine is associated with markers of inflammation in seminal plasma and the concentrations of seminal resistin correlate positively with those of proinflammatory mediators such as interleukin-6 (IL-6), elastase and tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1 (TNF-\u03b1). During inflammation, the concentrations of cytokines and ROS increase, and this may have a deleterious effect on the male reproductive function. One study showed that there was a negative correlation between the concentrations of seminal resistin and spermatic motility and vitality. (The seminal concentrations of resistin were significantly higher in cases of leukocyte spermia or if the patients were smokers.)"}
{"id": "731232", "revid": "28057722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731232", "title": "Solo climbing", "text": "Solo climbing (or soloing) is a style of climbing in which the climber ascends a climbing route alone and deliberately without the assistance of a belayer (or \"second\"), or being part of any rope team. By its very nature, solo climbing presents a higher degree of risk to the climber as they are entirely reliant on their own skills (e.g. climbing technique, navigation) and their own equipment to complete the climbing route \u2013 any serious problems may require a self-rescue.\nSolo climbing is most common in mountaineering and more laterly in the more demanding sub-disciplines of alpine climbing and of rope solo climbing. The most dangerous form of solo climbing is that of free solo climbing, which means both climbing alone and also without using any form of climbing protection, as was dramatically portrayed in the climbing films \"Free Solo\" (for rock climbing) and \"The Alpinist\" (for ice climbing and for alpine climbing).\nWith climbing protection.\nThe following types of solo climbing use some form of climbing protection, which typically involves around a mechanical self-locking device (or progress capture/assisted braking device) that \u2014 when used properly with a rope and standard protection \u2014 reduces the risk of serious or fatal injury to the climber:\nWithout climbing protection.\nFree solo climbing (sometimes also just called \"soloing\") is where the solo-climber uses no climbing protection (or any form of climbing aids), whatsoever, except for their climbing shoes and climbing chalk (for a rock-climber) or ice tools (for an ice-climber), to ascend a climbing route. \nFree soloing is the most dramatic soloing-technique and in 2017 became an Oscar-winning documentary film, \"Free Solo\" featuring Alex Honnold free soloing the big wall route \"Freerider\" in Yosemite, the world's first-ever free solo of a big wall route.\nThere are a number of sub-classes of free soloing:\nIn film.\nA number of notable films have been made focused on solo (and free solo) climbing (on rock and/or on ice) including: "}
{"id": "731236", "revid": "500937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731236", "title": "Scanned-beam display", "text": ""}
{"id": "731240", "revid": "20957809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731240", "title": "Solicitor General of India", "text": "The Solicitor General of India (SGI) is subordinate to the Attorney General for India. The SGI is the second-highest law officer of the country, assists the Attorney General, and is assisted by Additional Solicitors General of India (Addl. SGIs). The SGI and the Addl. SGIs advise the Union of India and appear on its behalf in terms of the Law Officers (Conditions of Service) Rules, 1987.\nUnlike the post of Attorney General for India, which is a Constitutional post under Article 76 of the Indian Constitution, the posts of the Solicitor General and the Additional Solicitor General are neither Constitutional nor statutory. The conditions of service of Law Officers are defined by \"The Law Officers (Conditions of Service) Rules, 1987\", made under the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Indian Constitution. \nThe Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) recommends the appointment and officially appoints the Solicitor General. The proposal for appointment of Solicitor General, Additional Solicitor General is generally moved at the level of Joint secretary (or Law Secretary) in the Department of Legal Affairs and after obtaining the approval of the Minister of Law &amp; Justice, the proposal goes to the ACC and then to the president.\nCurrently, the Solicitor General of India is Tushar Mehta.\nDuties.\nThe Solicitor General works under the Attorney General of India. The duties of the Solicitor General are laid out in Law Officers (Conditions of Service) Rules, 1987:\nRestrictions of private practice.\nAs law officers representing the Government of India, SGIs are bound by certain restrictions concerning private practice. A law officer is not allowed to:\nFee and allowances payable.\nFee and allowances payable to the law officers (including Attorney General of India, Solicitor General of India and the Additional Solicitors General) of the Government of India are as under:\nIn addition to the above fee payable for cases, a retainer fee is paid to the Solicitor General and the Addl. Solicitors General at the rate of Rs. 40,000, and Rs. 30,000 per month, respectively.\nList of incumbent Law Officers.\nThe list of incumbent Law Officers (i.e. AGI, SGI, Addl. SGIs) as of 10 September 2024 are as follows:\nList of Solicitors General of India.\nThe Solicitors General of India since independence are listed below:"}
{"id": "731242", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731242", "title": "Dusk And Her Embrace", "text": ""}
{"id": "731246", "revid": "38667955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731246", "title": "Erie Railroad", "text": "The Erie Railroad was a railroad that operated in the Northeastern United States, originally connecting Pavonia Terminal in Jersey City, New Jersey, with Lake Erie at Dunkirk, New York. The railroad expanded west to Chicago following its 1865 merger with the former Atlantic and Great Western Railroad, also known as the New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio Railroad (NYPANO RR).\nThe mainline route of the Erie Railroad proved influential in the development and economic growth of the Southern Tier of New York state, including the cities of Binghamton, Elmira, and Hornell. The Erie Railroad repair shops were located in Hornell and was Hornell's largest employer. Hornell was also where Erie's mainline split into two routes with one proceeding northwest to Buffalo and the other west to Chicago.\nOn October 17, 1960, Erie Railroad merged with its former rival, Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, to form the Erie Lackawanna Railway. The Hornell repair shops were closed in 1976, when Conrail took over, and repair operations moved to the Lackawanna's facility in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Some of the former Erie line between Hornell and Binghamton was damaged in 1972 by Hurricane Agnes, but the damage was quickly repaired and today this line is a key link in the Norfolk Southern Railway's Southern Tier mainline. What was left of the Erie Lackawanna became part of Conrail in 1976. In 1983, remnants of the Erie Railroad became part of New Jersey Transit rail operations, including parts of its Main Line, and most of the surviving Erie Railroad routes are now operated by the Norfolk Southern Railway.\nHistory.\nNew York and Erie Railroad: 1832\u20131861.\nThe New York and Erie Rail Road was chartered on April 24, 1832, by New York governor Enos T. Throop to connect the Hudson River at Piermont, north of New York City, west to Lake Erie at Dunkirk. On February 16, 1841, the railroad was authorized to cross into the northeast corner of Pennsylvania on the west side of the Delaware River, a few miles west of Port Jervis, NY, as the east side was already occupied by the Delaware and Hudson Canal to a point several miles west of Lackawaxen, PA. Construction began in 1836 and was opened in sections until reaching the full length to Dunkirk on May 19, 1851. At Dunkirk, steamboats continued across Lake Erie to Detroit, Michigan. The line crossed the Kittatinny Mountains at 870 feet.\nWhen the route was completed in May, 1851, President Millard Fillmore and several members of his cabinet, including Secretary of State Daniel Webster, made a special, two-day excursion run to open the railway. It is reported that Webster viewed the entire run from a rocking chair attached to a flatcar, with a steamer rug and jug of high-quality Medford rum. At stops, he would step off the flatcar and give speeches.\nThe line was built at wide gauge; this was believed to be a superior technology to standard gauge, providing more stability.\nIn 1848, the railroad built the Starrucca Viaduct, a stone railroad bridge over Starrucca Creek in Lanesboro, Pennsylvania, which has survived and is still in use today. In fact, current owner Central New York Railroad spent $3.2 million in 2021 centering its single remaining track, re-ballasting and repairing masonry. The viaduct is long, high and wide at the top. It is the oldest stone rail bridge in Pennsylvania still in use.\nAs stated in the introduction, the shops in Hornell, New York were the largest on the Erie system beginning in the late 1920s, processing about 350 locomotives per year with \"classified\" (heavy) repairs. However, the first major repair facilities were built in Susquehanna, Pennsylvania in 1848, which were enlarged in 1863 to employ 700 workers. The primary car shops were located in Meadville, Pennsylvania in the western part of the state, employing 3,500 in 1912.\nErie Railway: 1861\u20131878.\nIn August 1859, the company went into receivership due to inability to make payments on the debts incurred for the large costs of building, and, on June 25, 1861, it was reorganized as the Erie Railway. This was the first bankruptcy of a major trunk line in the U.S.\nIn the Erie War of the 1860s, four well-known financiers struggled for control of the company; Cornelius Vanderbilt versus Daniel Drew, James Fisk and Jay Gould. Gould ultimately triumphed in this struggle, but was forced to relinquish control in 1872\u201373 due to unfavorable public opinion following his involvement in the 1869 gold-rigging scandal and to his loss of $1 million of Erie Railroad stock to the British con-man Lord Gordon-Gordon. Investors in the railroad were also weary of Gould's financial wars with Vanderbilt that caused wild stock price fluctuations and operating losses from rate battles. Upon leaving the Erie he managed to take $4 million, which he claimed was the railroad's \"debt\" to him.\nIn 1869, the railroad moved its main shop facilities from Dunkirk to Buffalo. Rather than demolishing the shops in Dunkirk, the facility was leased to Horatio G. Brooks, the former chief engineer of the NY&amp;E who was at the controls of the first train into Dunkirk in 1851. Horatio Brooks used the facilities to begin Brooks Locomotive Works, which remained in independent business until 1901 when it was merged with seven other locomotive manufacturing firms to create ALCO. ALCO continued new locomotive production at this facility until 1934, then closed the plant completely in 1962.\nThe cost of breaking bulk cargo in order to interchange with standard gauge lines led the Erie to introduce a line of cars designed to operate on both broad gauge and standard gauge trucks. Beginning in 1871, the railroad interchanged traffic by means of truck exchange, including through passenger and freight connections to St. Louis, Missouri, using a Nutter car hoist in Urbana, Ohio. Beginning in 1876, the Erie carried out their plans to convert their trackage to standard gauge, since it was deemed that the standard gauge-broad gauge interchange operations could not justify the costs. By 1878, the Erie built a third rail along the entire mainline from Buffalo to Jersey City. The third rail installation and standard-gauge conversion projects were so expensive, that the railroad was forced into bankruptcy.\nNew York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad: 1878\u20131895.\nThe Erie still did not see profits, and was sold in 1878 via bankruptcy reorganization to become the New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad. On June 22, 1880, the railroad's standard-gauge conversion process was completed.\nIn 1886, it was reported that the Erie and the Philadelphia and Reading Railway shared ferry services between their two Jersey City terminals, the larger being Pavonia Terminal, and Fulton Ferry in Brooklyn, New York for 11 round trips on weekdays and Saturdays, and four round trips on Sunday. In 1889, it opened a new bridge across the Hackensack River improving service to its terminals.\nErie Railroad: 1895\u20131960.\nBy 1893, the New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad went into bankruptcy reorganization again, and then the company emerged in 1895 as the Erie Railroad. By that time, the company began to obtain financial support from J. P. Morgan. In 1898, the Erie obtained a subsidiary, the New York, Susquehanna and Western Railroad (NYS&amp;W), after Morgan purchased the majority of their shares, on the Erie's behalf. The control of the NYS&amp;W allowed the Erie to gain access to anthracite coal mines south of Scranton, Pennsylvania, competing with coal operations from the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad (DL&amp;W).\nGeorge W. Perkins brought Frederick D. Underwood into the Erie Railroad in 1910. During the eastern railroad strike of 1913 Underwood agreed to accept any ruling made by mediators under the Newlands Reclamation Act. One of the demands made by Erie employees was a 20% increase in wages. Erie management had refused a wage increase, but compromised by asking employees to wait until January, 1915 for any advance. Union leaders agreed to make this an issue which Erie management would settle with its own men. However, W.G. Lee, president of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, asserted that the only way \"to deal with the Erie is through J.P. Morgan &amp; Company, or the banks\". Underwood responded from his home in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, stating \"I am running the Erie Railroad: not George W. Perkins, nor J.P. Morgan, nor anybody else.\"\nIn the mid-1920s, the Van Sweringen brothers of Cleveland, Ohio, assumed control of the Erie, and they installed a new president for the railroad, John Joseph Bernet. Bernet only served as the Erie's president from January 1927 to May 1929, but during that time, he initiated a reorganization and cost-cutting program to improve the company's operations and finances. He also arranged for the Erie to replace most of their steam locomotives and rolling stock with newly built standardized equipment to speed up their freight operations, and it involved the introduction of the Erie's fleet of 2-8-4 \"Berkshire\" locomotives. In the mid-1930s, both Van Sweringen brothers died at an early age, before they could carry out any further plans they had for the Erie and their other railroads.\nDespite the ravages of the Great Depression in the 1930s, the Erie managed to continue operations on their own, until they filed for bankruptcy again, on January 18, 1938. That same year, the Erie was involved in the U.S. Supreme Court case, the \"Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins\". The Erie doctrine, which governs the application of state common law in federal courts, is still taught in American law schools, as of 2026. By December 1941, the Erie emerged from bankruptcy, following a reorganization process, which involved the purchase of the leased Cleveland and Mahoning Valley Railroad, swapping high rent for lower interest payments, and the purchase of formerly-subsidized and leased lines. In 1940, the NYS&amp;W was spun-off from the Erie's control, as part of their own bankruptcy reorganization, and in the process, the Erie was entrusted ownership of their Susquehanna Connecting Railroad. The Erie's reorganization was deemed a success, since the railroad managed to pay dividends to their shareholders.\nOn September 15, 1948, the Cleveland Union Terminal Company allowed the Erie to use the Union Terminal adjacent to Terminal Tower in lieu of its old station. That same year, the Erie purchased a share of the Niagara Junction Railway, along with the New York Central and the Lehigh Valley. On March 17, 1954, the Erie completely dieselized its locomotive roster, when K-1 class 4-6-2 No. 2530 hauled the railroad's final steam-powered commuter train between Jersey City and Spring Valley, New York. Later that same year, the railroad launched trailer-on-flatcar (TOFC) services.\nErie Railroad prospered throughout the mid-1950s, but its profits were simultaneously on a decline. The company's 1957 income was half of that of 1956; by 1958 and 1959, Erie Railroad posted large deficits. The Erie's financial losses resulted in them entering negotiations to merge with the nearby Delaware, Lackawanna and Western. The proposed merger led to the abandonment of duplicate freight facilities in Binghamton and Elmira, New York. Between 1956 and 1957, the Erie shifted its passenger trains from its Pavonia Terminal to the DL&amp;W's newer Hoboken Terminal. The DL&amp;W also abandoned most of their mainline between Binghamton and Elmira, in favor of the Erie's parallel mainline, in 1958. The merger negotiations subsequently accelerated, and they briefly considered including the Delaware and Hudson Railroad (D&amp;H); on October 17, 1960, the Erie and the DL&amp;W merged to create the Erie Lackawanna Railway. However, the merged railroad only operated for sixteen years, before their financial decline forced them to be absorbed into Conrail in 1976. Some former Erie trackage between Hornell and Binghamton were damaged in 1972 by Hurricane Agnes. The Erie's large repair facility in Hornell was closed following Conrail's takeover, and operations were consolidated at the Lackawanna's Scranton facility.\nLines operated.\nA map from 1960 shows that the Erie had some control over the former Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati and Indianapolis Railway and the New York Central from Lawrenceville to Newberry Junction, near Williamsport, PA.\nPassenger service.\nThe Erie Railroad operated a number of named passenger trains, although none were as well-known or successful as others like the Pennsylvania Railroad's \"Broadway Limited\" or New York Central Railroad's \"20th Century Limited\". Some of the Erie's most well known trains included the \"Erie Limited\", \"Lake Cities\", \"Pacific Express\", \"Atlantic Express\", \"Midlander\", \"Southern Tier Express\" and \"Mountain Express\". All of these had their western termini in Chicago, except the \"Mountain Express\" which terminated in Hornell, in the Southern Tier of New York.\nThe Erie operated an extensive network of commuter routes in northern New Jersey and the lower Hudson Valley of New York. Most of these routes became part of Conrail along with the rest of Erie Lackawanna's rail operations in 1976. The New Jersey routes are now part of NJ Transit's Hoboken Division, originating and terminating at Hoboken Terminal. The Hudson Valley routes are now part of Metro-North Railroad.\nIn addition to its steam and diesel services the Erie also operated an electric commuter rail line to its terminal station in Rochester, New York. The station was one of the Erie's few electrified railroad stations, and the railroad became one of the first to provide electric commuter services in 1907.\nHeritage unit.\nAs part of the 30th anniversary of Norfolk Southern Railway being formed, NS decided to paint 20 new locomotives into the paint scheme of predecessor railroads. NS #1068, an EMD SD70ACe, was painted into Erie Railroad's green passenger scheme. It was released on May 25, 2012.\nIn October 2023, as part of the 40th Anniversary of NJ Transit Rail Operations, EMD GP40PH-2B No. 4210 was painted into the Erie Railroad's black-and-yellow scheme."}
{"id": "731247", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731247", "title": "Indian Solicitor General", "text": ""}
{"id": "731252", "revid": "503138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731252", "title": "Retina projection", "text": ""}
{"id": "731254", "revid": "36056848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731254", "title": "Canvassing", "text": "Canvassing, also known as door knocking or phone banking, is the systematic initiation of direct contact with individuals, commonly used during political campaigns. Canvassing can be done for many reasons: political campaigning, grassroots fundraising, community awareness, membership drives, and more. Canvassing is used by political parties and issue groups to identify supporters, persuade the undecided, and add voters to the voters list through voter registration, and it is central to get out the vote operations. It is the core element of what political campaigns call the \"ground game\" or \"field\".\nOrganized political canvassing became a central tool of contested election campaigns in Britain, and has remained a core practice performed by thousands of volunteers at each election there, and in many countries with similar political systems.\nCanvassing can also refer to a neighborhood canvass performed by law enforcement in the course of an investigation. This is a systematic approach to interviewing residents, merchants, and others who are in the immediate vicinity of a crime and may have useful information.\nIn the United States, the compilation of election returns and validation of the outcome that forms the basis of the official results is also called canvassing.\nPractice.\nA modern election canvass may be conducted by a candidate, volunteers, and/or paid canvassers. The canvassers are given lists known as \"canvass sheets\" (or access to a canvassing app) or in the UK as \"reading pads\". These are a list of households to be contacted, generated from a voter database. Some campaigns today have replaced paper sheets with tablet or smartphone apps.\nThe canvasser will try to contact each of the households on their list, and deliver a script containing questions and persuasive messaging provided by the campaign. Almost all election canvassing includes asking how a person plans to vote. Supporters may then be asked themselves to volunteer, or to take a lawn sign. Those who are wavering or undecided may be given a message of persuasion. If foot canvassing, the canvasser may also distribute flyers.\nDuring the canvass, the results will be entered into the voter database. This will update the campaign's list of voters, removing those who have moved or are deceased and adding new residents who may have been found. The data on the questions will be used for further contact, a supporter may be added to a list for get out the vote or fundraising, while a hostile voter might be dropped from future contact.\nIt is important to remember to speak clearly and be personable while canvassing to create meaningful conversations and perhaps sway the undecided. Most canvassers are prepared with a thorough script that they use at the door. Most are encouraged not to go off-script in order to avoid making false claims or misrepresenting the party they are advocating for. It is important to identify one\u2019s target audience, keep conversations courteous, and employ social engineering techniques to promote the message.\nHistory.\nOrigins.\nThe origin of the term is an older spelling of \"canvas\", to sift by shaking in a sheet of canvas, hence to discuss thoroughly.\nAn organized canvass can be seen as early as the elections in the Roman Republic. In those campaigns candidates would shake the hands of all eligible voters in the Forum. Whispering into the ear of some candidates would be a \"nomenclator\", a slave who had been trained to memorize the names of all the voters, so that the candidate could greet them all by name.\nModern canvassing can be traced back to the rise of contested elections in England. For the first centuries of the English Parliament elections were rarely contested. Losing an election was considered a dishonor to oneself, and to friends and family. Campaigning thus involved quiet sounding out of the small pool of voters. Only once this process had convinced a candidate that he had enough votes to win would he declare his interest in the seat.\nBeginning in the Elizabethan era, and expanding during the conflicts under the Stuarts, elections began to be openly contested. Canvassing was a controversial strategy. In both 1604 and 1626 canvassing for votes was banned. It was seen as a violation to free elections, as votes would be won by persuasion rather than a voter making up his own mind. Despite this, by the late 17th century, canvassing was standard practice in English elections. Rival campaigns would attempt a full canvass of all voters, which even in the largest districts would only be a few thousand people.\nThere were many reasons why candidates invested much time and money in canvassing. As in the previous tradition of sounding out supporters before announcing, many candidates would use the canvass to determine their level of support, and would drop out before election day if it proved insufficient. Part of the concern would be financial. Campaigning was expensive in an era when voters expected to be plied with food and drink. In this period the candidates had to cover the costs of the election itself. If candidates did not find enough votes during their canvass they would drop out before wasting more money on a losing campaign.\nBuilding the list of voters was also important, as only some districts kept full poll books. Legal wrangling over who met the property requirements to vote was important in many campaigns, and canvassing was used to add supporters to the rolls, while investigating the claims of opponents. The growing list of supporters would also be essential to an election day operation. In early elections all voters had to travel to a central town, often some distance from their home, and polling could last several days. During this time voters would be away from their work and their fields. As an example of the challenges, one losing candidate had identified 639 supporters in Kent for the Short Parliament election of 1640, but only 174 voted, most going home after finding out the polling would take three days.\nPersuasion and corruption.\nA candidate would also make sure to knock on as many doors as possible to win over the voters. Speaking to as many voters as possible was seen as an essential tool to win the \"wavering multitudes.\"\nBy the 18th century canvassing was standard practice, but this was also an era of gross electoral corruption, and canvassing was used to bribe and threaten voters, as famously depicted in William Hogarth's \"Humours of an Election\" series of paintings. Most directly this would take the form of direct bribes to voters. This was the practice in only a minority of districts, but in some areas large bribes had become habitual. In areas without direct bribery, candidates were expected to provide food, drink and banquets. For the priciest campaigns, these various costs added up to sums equivalent to several million pounds in today's money, causing financial hardship even for wealthy candidates.\nIn the first elections held in the United States, canvassing was rare. Most elections were uncontested, and even in races with multiple candidates it was considered improper for a candidate to campaign on his own behalf. As the party system developed in the early 19th century, elections became more contested and voluntary associations developed to work on candidates' behalf. As in the United Kingdom, canvassing became an important part of their operations, and they would attempt to visit each voter in a district.\nThis system soon became a venue for gross corruption. Machine politics developed in the large cities of the eastern US. Winning candidates would reward their supporters with patronage appointments, and direct bribery was also common; one study estimated that 20% of New York voters were compensated for their votes during Gilded Age elections.\nIn the United Kingdom, the Reform Act 1832 attacked corruption and expanded the franchise. This, combined with the growing strength of the national parties, transformed canvassing. There were no lists of who was eligible to vote under the new law, and it was up to individual voters to register themselves. The parties launched mass canvasses with the goal of adding all of the party's supporters to the electoral roll. As an example, in Norwich the 1874 saw 3000 Liberal and 2000 Conservative paid workers engaged in voter registration. The massive paid canvassing came to an end with the Corrupt and Illegal Practices Prevention Act 1883, which limited campaign spending. Thus the armies of paid canvassers were replaced with smaller volunteer efforts. Laws were also changed in the United Kingdom to make voter registration almost automatic, removing the need for the parties to expend efforts on it.\nVoter identification and decline.\nAs corruption faded, parties returned to using canvassing to win votes through persuasion and get-out-the-vote (GOTV) efforts. This was especially true of the new socialist parties such as the Labour Party in the United Kingdom, and the CCF in Canada who had little money but enthusiastic volunteer bases who could be deployed to door steps.\nThe years after the Second World War saw a general decline in canvassing. Political scientists began to question the utility of traditional campaigns. The Michigan model of voter behaviour became the accepted wisdom. It argued that voters had deep-set partisan loyalties, and that changes in such loyalties take years to develop. A simple knock on the door will do nothing to change a voter's opinion. Parties thus switched their canvassing resources away from persuading voters, focusing only on identifying their supporters and making sure they voted. The British Labour Party adopted the Reading System developed by Ian Mikardo to win the Reading constituency in 1945. It was based on concentrating exclusively on pro-Labour areas and boosting their turnout, while ignoring non-supporters.\nEven these approaches were found wanting. David Butler in his Nuffield Model of UK elections found that during the 1950s and 1960s, local campaigns had no effect on the results. With the rise of television, resources were shifted from the ground to mass market advertising, with canvassing seen as a relic of the past. Ivor Crewe argued that \"constituency organizing counts for next to nothing in the television age.\" One political scientist wrote there was a belief that canvassing was an \"elaborate ritual bringing some sense of gratification to the participants, but making no difference to election results.\"\nRevival.\nIn the United States, canvassing hit its all-time low during the 1996 election, with the lowest reported rates of political volunteering, and the lowest recorded voter turnout. Political scientists began to reassess the effects of canvassing. In Britain new studies found that unlike in earlier decades, a strong field campaign was having an effect on the result. In the United States Alan S. Gerber and Donald Green launched a series of controlled experiments, and demonstrated that foot canvassing was one of the most effective tools available to boost voter turnout.\nThe years since 2000 have seen a widespread revival of election canvassing. An intensive effort by the Al Gore campaign of 2000 was credited with gaining several points on election day in the 2000 election, enough to win the popular vote despite being down several points in the polls the day before. Subsequently, the Republicans launched their 72 Hour Program of get out the vote efforts over the last three days of a campaign, and also found demonstrable proof that it gained them several points in key races. The Obama campaigns of 2008 and 2012 were especially noted for dedicating resources to a field program.\nNew technologies changed how canvassing was conducted. While door-to-door blockwalking has been prior to COVID-19 been the most common canvassing technique, canvassing can also be done via phone, texting, and social media. Expansive databases of the electorate, such as the Democrats' NGP VAN, pulled together canvassing data, consumer information, and demographic profiles to allow precise targeting of voters. No longer would campaigns knock on all the doors in a district, rather voters who would most be persuaded to support the candidate or come out to vote could be targeted. Large campaigns incorporated A/B testing into their canvassing, to further hone and improve its effectiveness.\nAround the world.\nOriginating in the United Kingdom, canvassing is most widespread in those countries that have borrowed from the British political system. It is standard practice in elections in Ireland, the United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. In India, despite the million or more voters in many constituencies, parties have made the effort to have canvassers visit the door of each house in each village.\nDoor-to-door canvassing has been little known in most other countries. It has been used in several Latin American countries, including Brazil and Chile. By utilizing newer technological resources like WhatsApp, voter turnout has increased among younger voters in Brazil. After the highly publicized canvassing tactics of the Obama campaign, similar tactics have been tried in France and Germany.\nIn Scandinavia door-to-door canvassing was an accepted part of election campaigning in the first half of the 20th century, but has since faded. It still exists, but an activist knocking on someone's door is considered somewhat unseemly. More widespread workplace canvasses have been organized, either by labour unions or by employers.\nIn Pakistan, it has been found that canvassing is effective in increasing voter turnout and in facilitating political conversation when catered towards the men and women in the household.\nIn America, there seems to be a consensus that door-to-door canvassing might not be as important to young and BIPOC voters as online engagement canvassing is. Although Trump's campaign with a lot of door-to-door canvassing did get him a second win, the way he got it was through convincing his voters to go canvass themselves instead of Trump's campaign hiring people to canvass. \nCanvassing for votes is forbidden in Japan due to fear of leftist control. This has been the case since the original General Election Law of 1925. The restrictions have been brought to the Supreme Court on several occasions, but have been upheld as constitutional.\nEffectiveness.\nThere has been a long history of studying the effectiveness of canvassing beginning with a 1927 study by Harold Foote Gosnell. Through the 1980s, a series of both controlled and natural experiments created a consensus that canvassing had a small effect on turnout, and no observable persuasive effect on whom to vote for.\nIn 1999, Gerber and Green published their first paper presenting a rigorously controlled experiment that produced a substantial turnout boost from canvassing in a municipal election in New Haven, Connecticut. This study revived interest in the subject. Since then Gerber, Green, and other political scientists have conducted a program that verified those results, and tested what techniques are most effective. Foot canvassing is the most effective contact method, increasing turnout by about 7 percentage points, while phoning boosts it by 2.6 points. Other contact techniques such as direct mail, robocalls, and email have small to undetectable effects. Other studies have found that canvassing can do more to boost turnout, and also win new votes at the door through persuasion.\nIn the city of Duisburg in Germany, another study was conducted to compare the effectivity of in-person canvassing versus mail-in surveys. This research was done in 2022 so volunteer canvassers followed health precautions during their research. The 11 canvassers found that the simpleness of coming door to door, with a small cash motivation, was more effective than mail-in surveys.\nA 2018 study in the \"American Economic Review\" found that door-to-door canvassing on behalf of the Fran\u00e7ois Hollande campaign in the 2012 French presidential election \"did not affect turnout, but increased Hollande's vote share in the first round and accounted for one fourth of his victory margin in the second. Visits' impact persisted in later elections, suggesting a lasting persuasion effect.\"\nThere are some studies that suggest that canvassing is less effective in certain European nations. In an article from the \"British Journal of Political Science\", they found some evidence that the effectiveness in European canvassing activities is far less compared to the United States, compiling several studies of canvassing in Denmark. However, the paper did not come to one conclusion on the cause of this discrepancy.\nBritish example script.\nThe following is an excerpt from a script used by the UK Labour Party in the buildup to a general election for telephone canvassing:\nThe script then divides into two sections based on whether the voter intends to support Labour or another party. The section for Labour supporters encourages the use of postal votes, asks whether the individual would consider displaying a poster in their window or deliver leaflets on their street and asks whether the individual would consider joining the party. The section for non-Labour voters asks the following questions:\nUnited States constitutionality.\nLocal governments in the United States have passed local laws to limit Americans' ability to canvass. Many of these challenges escalated to the Supreme Court, which has ruled overwhelmingly on the side of the public's right to canvass as protected by the First Amendment. For example, in \"Martin v. Struthers\", Justice Hugo Black stated:Freedom to distribute information to every citizen wherever he desires to receive it is so clearly vital to the preservation of a free society that ... it must be fully preserved. To require a censorship through license which makes impossible the free and unhampered distribution of pamphlets strikes at the very heart of the constitutional guarantees.In 2002, the Supreme Court reconfirmed its conviction that canvassing is protected by U.S. First Amendment rights in \"Watchtower Society v. Village of Stratton\". Justice John Paul Stevens stated:It is offensive, not only to the values protected by the First Amendment, but to the very notion of a free society that in the context of everyday public discourse a citizen must first inform the government of her desire to speak to her neighbors and then obtain a permit to do so."}
{"id": "731266", "revid": "15881234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731266", "title": "Nadab of Israel", "text": "Nadab ( \"N\u0101\u1e0f\u0101\u1e07\") was, according to the Hebrew Bible, the second king of the northern Israelite Kingdom of Israel. He was the son and successor of Jeroboam. \nReign.\nNadab became king of Israel in the second year of Asa, King of Judah, and reigned for two years. William F. Albright has dated his reign to 901\u2013900\u00a0BCE, while E. R. Thiele offers the dates 910\u2013909\u00a0BCE.\nIn the second year of his reign, while they were besieging Gibbethon, a Philistine town in southern Dan, a conspiracy broke out in Nadab's army. He was slain by one of his own captains, Baasha, who then made himself king of Israel.\nHaving slain Nadab, Baasha put to death the remainder of the royal family (, ). This was consistent with the prophecy given via Ahijah the Shilonite concerning the extinction of the entire House of Jeroboam.\nNadab, son of King Jeroboam I and Egyptian Princess Ano, was next in line for the throne. Following the untimely death of his brother Abijah, Nadab became the crown prince. As a member of the tribe of Ephraim, Nadab's reign was marked by turmoil, ultimately leading to his downfall.\nBaasha, one of Nadab's own commanders, orchestrated a coup, overthrowing and killing Nadab. This pivotal event marked the end of Nadab's ill-fated monarchy in Israel."}
{"id": "731269", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731269", "title": "List of Ontario expressways", "text": ""}
{"id": "731273", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731273", "title": "Emperor Napoleon", "text": ""}
{"id": "731275", "revid": "182902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731275", "title": "California State Route 86", "text": "State Route 86 (SR 86) is a north\u2013south state highway in the U.S. State of California that connects the Imperial and Coachella valleys in the southeastern desert region of the state. It runs from State Route 111 near the Mexican border crossing at Calexico north through the Imperial Valley via El Centro and Brawley, and around the west side of the Salton Sea into the Coachella Valley. It then goes through Coachella before terminating at Interstate 10 in Indio.\nRoute description.\nSR 86 begins at an intersection with SR 111, just east of the town of Heber, as Heber Road. After traveling west through Heber, and intersecting CR S31, SR 86 heads north and enters the city of El Centro (as 4th Street), having an interchange with I-8. Passing through downtown El Centro, SR 86 intersects Main Street (CR S80) before curving to the west (as Adams Avenue). The highway continues north on Imperial Avenue before it enters the city of Imperial and passes Imperial County Airport, continuing north as it leaves the city limits.\nNorth of Imperial, SR 86 intersects CR S27 before making a turn to the northeast, entering the city of Brawley. It passes to the west of downtown (as Western Avenue) before turning west onto Main Street, running concurrently with SR 78. Both SR 78 and 86 turn northwest before passing through the city of Westmoreland and intersecting CR S30. After briefly turning west, SR 78 and 86 turn northwest again and pass through Elmore and Kane Spring; SR 78 turns west (towards San Diego County), while SR 86 continues northwest along the western edge of the Salton Sea (just east of Anza-Borrego Desert State Park), before it intersects CR S22. SR 86 passes through the Torres-Martinez Indian Reservation and Coolidge Spring before entering Riverside County.\nJust north of the county line in Oasis, SR 86 continues north on an expressway, turning away from the Salton Sea and heading through agricultural fields and farmlands. The route then meets SR 111, and turns northwest, running parallel to that highway. As it nears Indio, the expressway turns into a freeway. SR 86 ends at an interchange with I-10.\nSR 86 is part of the California Freeway and Expressway System, and north of the southern SR 78 junction is part of the National Highway System, a network of highways that are considered essential to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by the Federal Highway Administration.\nHistory.\nIn the late 20th century, SR 86 had a rather notorious reputation for frequent and often fatal collisions. For much of its length, especially between the southern tip of the Coachella Valley to the Imperial County line, SR 86 was a two-lane road with easy access from rural side roads. A driver trying to pass might find himself headed straight for the side of another vehicle pulling out from one of the side roads. This reputation earned SR 86 the nickname \"Blood Alley\".\nOriginally a part of U.S. Route 99 until the 1960s, the northern end of SR 86 was widened and rerouted through the new and rather unusually designation State Route 86S (SR 86S) (for \"supplemental\") soon after the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), making SR 86 a four- or six-lane highway for most of its length. Since it is easier to enter California from the Imperial Valley than through San Diego, SR 86 sees a great deal of truck traffic to and from Mexico, earning it still another nickname, \"The NAFTA Highway\". The new highway has proven to be at least as dangerous as the old alignment owing to much the same problems of poorly marked and uncontrolled side roads. A rash of fatal crashes in early 2005 prompted the city of Coachella to push Caltrans for the installation of at least two more traffic signals on SR 86S.\nIn December 2012, the SR 86 designation was transferred to the routing of SR 86S, and SR 86S ceased to exist. State Route 195 was removed from the state highway system as a result. SR 86 was originally truncated to Avenue 46, but the State Route 86S expressway, which replaced SR 86 around the east side of Coachella and Indio, did reach I-10. Despite SR 86's rerouting, the Airport Boulevard interchange remains numbered as exit 16, reflecting the former SR 86S's distance."}
{"id": "731277", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731277", "title": "Rsbac", "text": ""}
{"id": "731284", "revid": "47066627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731284", "title": "Jessica Tuck", "text": "Jessica Tuck (born February 19, 1963) is an American actress, best known for her performances on television as Megan Gordon Harrison on the ABC soap opera \"One Life to Live\", Gillian Gray in the CBS drama series \"Judging Amy,\" and as Nan Flanagan on the HBO series \"True Blood\".\nPersonal life.\nTuck was born in New York City. She graduated from Yale University with a BS in Psychology in 1986. She and her husband, Robert Koseff, have a child, Samantha Koseff.\nCareer.\nTuck made her television debut as Megan Gordon Harrison on the ABC daytime soap opera, \"One Life to Live\". She was a regular cast member from 1988 to 1992. She reprised the role in spirit form in 1993, 1999, 2004, and 2012. Tuck was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series in 1992 for her role on \"One Life to Live\", but lost the award to her onscreen mother Erika Slezak. In 1990 she also was nominated for a Soap Opera Digest Award for Outstanding Female Newcomer: Daytime for the same role. After leaving daytime television, Tuck played Nicole Brown Simpson in \"The O.J. Simpson Story\" (1995) and had a leading role in the Olsen twins' straight-to-video movie \"Billboard Dad\" (1998).\nFrom 1999 to 2005, Tuck co-starred opposite Amy Brenneman in the CBS drama series, \"Judging Amy\" as Gillian Gray. The series ended after six seasons. She later appeared in a number of films, most notable are \"Secretary\" (2002) and \"Super 8\" (2011). She also appeared on \"High School Musical 2\", \"High School Musical 3\" and \"Sharpay's Fabulous Adventure\" as Darby Evans, the mother of Ryan (Lucas Grabeel) and Sharpay (Ashley Tisdale). In 2008, Tuck was cast in the HBO series \"True Blood\" as Nan Flanagan, a vampire who is the spokesperson and 'face' of vampires for the American Vampire League. In season 4, she was promoted to a series regular. She appeared in the series from 2008 to 2011 and made a guest appearance in 2014, in the final season.\nDuring her career, Tuck has made over 50 guest appearances on television shows, including \"Murder, She Wrote\", \"Seinfeld\", \"NYPD Blue\", \"The Nanny\", \"\", \"Grey's Anatomy\", \"Boston Legal\", \"Castle\", \"Private Practice\", \"Revenge\", \"Drop Dead Diva\", and \"Scandal\". Tuck also had the recurring roles on \"Murder One\", \"Sunset Beach\", \"Saving Grace\", \"Days of Our Lives\", \"Grimm\", and \"Twisted\".\nIn 2001, Tuck founded Spark Off Rose, a storytelling event based in Los Angeles. She currently serves as its executive producer/director."}
{"id": "731285", "revid": "47144789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731285", "title": "Basler Messeturm", "text": "The Basler Messeturm (also known as the Basel Trade Fair Tower) is a mixed-use high-rise building in Basel, Switzerland. Completed in 2003, the tower stands at with 32 floors and is currently the seventh-tallest building in Switzerland.\nA bar lounge occupies the top floor. The Hyperion hotel operates a 200-room four-star hotel in the building, which also includes offices.\nHistory.\nIn September 2000, Swiss Prime Site was selected as the investor for the Basler Messeturm, planned at Messeplatz in Basel. Developed by Messe Basel, the project was scheduled for completion by mid-2003. Messe Basel was named as the primary tenant. The building permit application had already been submitted in July 2000, and construction was expected to begin in July 2001. A framework agreement was signed between Messe Basel, the canton of Basel-Stadt, and Swiss Prime Site.\nWhen completed in 2003, the tower became the first building in Switzerland to exceed 100 metres in height, standing five metres taller than the spire of the Bern Minster. At the time, \"Swissinfo\" noted that \u201csomething is changing in Switzerland,\u201d as new tower projects were being launched in cities like Basel and Zurich after decades of restrictive building regulations.\nIn 2021, \"Basler Zeitung\" reported that the Messeturm had undergone an interior renovation led by Swiss Prime Site. A central focus of the redesign was sustainability, with features such as recyclable materials, flexible partition walls, and air-purifying plants."}
{"id": "731286", "revid": "7314111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731286", "title": "Use Your Illusion Tour", "text": "The Use Your Illusion Tour was a concert tour by the American hard rock band Guns N' Roses which ran from January 20, 1991, to July 17, 1993. It was not only the band's longest tour, but one of the longest concert tours in rock history, consisting of 192 shows in 27 countries. It was also a source of much infamy for the band, due to riots, late starts, cancellations and outspoken rantings by Axl Rose.\nHistory.\nThe Use Your Illusion Tour was a promotional tour for the albums \"Use Your Illusion I\" and \"Use Your Illusion II\". The tour started on May 24, 1991, approximately when the long-awaited follow-up to \"G N' R Lies\" was to be released, and ended over two years later. The release date of the album, or albums, since there were now two of them, was pushed back to September but the tour began as originally scheduled. The tour marked a high point in the popularity of Guns N' Roses, with a total of over 7 million fans attending, and accompanied by high worldwide album sales.\nLive recordings from the tour would be issued as a two video/DVD set, \"Use Your Illusion I\" and \"II\" (featuring footage from a 1992 concert in Tokyo, Japan) and provide content for the 2-disc set \"\". The tour also provided footage for music videos, including \"Dead Horse\" and their popular cover of Paul McCartney's \"Live and Let Die\". A planned documentary, titled \"The Perfect Crime\", included footage consisted of the band's time on the road, concert clips, and information about the riots and other major events of the tour. It was never released and never spoken about after the tour. Slash mentioned in his biography that Axl Rose controls the footage and that Slash would be interested in viewing it, as he thought it captured \"killer moments\" from the tour.\nThe conduct of the band, and particularly Axl Rose, during the Use Your Illusion Tour generated negative press, notably from the magazines \"Spin\", \"Kerrang!\", \"Circus\", and \"Hit Parader\". These magazines were mentioned in the song \"Get in the Ring\" where Axl Rose attacked writers who had written negative articles dealing with Rose's attitude.\nThe shows were all varied, as a setlist was never chosen by the band. They did, however, usually open with \"Welcome to the Jungle\", \"It's So Easy\", \"Nightrain\" or \"Perfect Crime\" and would shortly after one another play \"Mr. Brownstone\" or \"Live and Let Die\", and close with \"Paradise City\". Each show featured guitar solos from Slash (including the \"Theme From the Godfather\") and a drum solo from drummer Matt Sorum, usually six minutes in length.\nThe tour was massive not just in the number and size of performances, but also in its technical aspects and the size of the crew. A total of 130 working personnel traveled with the band, using two different stages to enable faster setup. The trade magazine \"Performance\" named the tour crew \"Crew of the Year\" for 1991.\nDuff McKagan revealed in 2015 that the band didn't make profit on the tour until 1993 due to the extravagant costs.\n\"The band had such a ball,\" Slash remarked in 1994. \"We managed to tour for two and a half years, against all the fuckin' odds. It really was a fuckin' endurance test of pretty big proportions.\"\nNotable events.\nAt the June 10, 1991, show, at the Saratoga Performing Arts Center, Axl Rose requested that the crowd chant \"Get in the ring!\" This was recorded for the song of that name on \"Use Your Illusion II\".\nOn June 13, 1991, during the show in Philadelphia, Rose erupted after a fan fought with Guns N' Roses' photographer Robert John. When the fan kicked the camera out of his hands, Rose cursed him out and challenged him to a fight. After the fan was ejected from the concert, the show continued.\nOn Tuesday, July 2, 1991, at a show at the Riverport Amphitheatre in Maryland Heights, Missouri, near St. Louis, Rose spotted a spectator recording the concert with a video camera and jumped into the audience after him when concert security failed to respond to his request to apprehend the man. Returning to the stage, Rose declared: \"Well, thanks to the lame-ass security, I'm going home!\" then slammed the mic on the stage, sparking the infamous Riverport riot. Rose then stormed off the stage; some people thought when he slammed the mic, because of the noise, that he shot someone. Slash told them, \"He just slammed his mic on the floor. We're outta here.\" He proceeded to throw his guitar pick into the crowd and follow Rose. The band followed. The band was looking to come back out and finish the show, but as police and security tried to calm down the audience, a riot broke out. The footage was captured by Robert John who was documenting the entire tour. Sixty fans were injured. The band lost most of their equipment and Rose was charged with inciting a riot. He was acquitted due to lack of evidence. The band would later express their feelings regarding the incident by including the message \"fuck you, St. Louis!\" in the liner notes of both \"Use Your Illusion\" albums.\nOn August 3, 1991, the day mixing of the \"Illusion\" albums was finished, the band played the longest show of the tour at the L.A. Forum. It lasted three and a half hours.\nOn November 7, 1991, Izzy Stradlin quit the band after the release of \"Use Your Illusion I\" and \"Use Your Illusion II\"; his last show was on August 31, 1991, at Wembley Stadium. On December 5, replacement rhythm guitarist Gilby Clarke made his debut in Worcester, at the first show after the release of \"Use Your Illusion I\" and \"Use Your Illusion II\".\nOn April 13 and 14, 1992, two concerts had to be canceled when a warrant was issued for Rose's arrest due to his behavior at the St. Louis show.\nOn April 20, 1992, the band performed at the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert, an effort for AIDS Awareness in London. The band was a controversial addition to the lineup, as many in the gay community were still angry over Rose using a homophobic slur in \"One in a Million.\" The band opened with \"Paradise City\" and closed with \"Knockin' on Heaven's Door.\" During the famous \"Paradise City\" opening, Axl pointed at protesters in the audience and yelled, \"SHOVE IT!\" He had planned to address the controversy between songs, but was asked not to by the band as it would pull the spotlight from Queen and Freddie Mercury. As Slash concluded a short cover of Alice Cooper's \"Only Women Bleed\", Duff McKagan kept an eye on Rose, who approached the front of the stage. When Slash finished the song, then strummed the beginning of \"Knockin' on Heaven's Door\", McKagan walked over to Rose and shook his hand in appreciation. Later in the show, Slash joined Joe Elliott of Def Leppard and the surviving members of Queen for \"Tie Your Mother Down.\" Rose sang \"We Will Rock You\" and finished \"Bohemian Rhapsody\" with Elton John and Queen. The show was broadcast live around the world via satellite, gathering the largest audience for a music concert in history.\nOn November 30, 1992, the band performed for the first time in Bogot\u00e1, Colombia. When they started to play \"November Rain\", a soft rain fell over the city and stopped right after they finished the song. Rose later stated this was a special moment for him because \"November Rain\" was #1 in Colombia for 60 weeks. Rose stated that the band were at risk of electrocution and must stop to dry the stage. The band moved backstage and returned to finish with \"Don't Cry\" and \"Paradise City.\"\nOn December 2, 1992, the band performed in Santiago, Chile, at Estadio Nacional in front of 85,535 people, breaking an attendance record in the stadium. At their arriving at Chile, Rose attacked some graphic reporters and a cameraman was injured. Before the concert, Rose got drunk and arrived at the stadium two hours late. While the band performed \"Civil War\" some people threw bottles to the stage, and Rose stopped four minutes into the show. The concert ended with 50 people arrested outside the stadium, and a teenage fan with several injuries, dying two days later.\nOn February 1, 1993, the band performed at the Calder Park Raceway in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The concert started late due to earlier heavy rain, with minimal shelter available for those attending. The concert was fraught with controversy, including reports that security staff had prohibited patrons from bringing their own food, drinks and sunscreen into the venue; this most seriously affected a diabetic teenage girl, whose medication and carefully portioned food were confiscated. The weather was very hot on that day, reportedly , and reportedly 1000 people were treated for heat-related illness. Many concertgoers went to the venue on special shuttle buses, which left the venue shortly after Guns N' Roses performed their final song. This, combined with a refusal to extend train timetables, left many concertgoers stranded. There are reports that they walked all the way down the Calder Highway back to Melbourne, looting a 7-Eleven on the highway for food. An inquiry into the conditions was held, with the findings published by Ombudsman Victoria in May 1993. To this day, this was the last ever concert to be performed at Calder Park.\nIn February 1993, Gilby Clarke told BBC Radio 1's \"Friday Rock Show\": \"For the last year and a half, we had a film crew with us. They do film every show and things backstage: hotel rooms, everything. And what we're gonna do at the end of the whole tour \u2013 which is actually after we're done in Europe \u2013 is put it all together, and we are gonna make a movie. It's pretty candid right now, so it's gonna be really great. The difference between ours and is that ours isn't scripted. This movie is actually things that are happening around us.\" He also said Guns N' Roses would record an \"MTV Unplugged\" during their stay in Russia. Neither of these plans came to fruition.\nStradlin returned for several shows in 1993, deputizing for an injured Clarke. \"It was weird,\" he recalled. \"We toured Greece, Istanbul, London \"[sic]\". I liked that side of it \u2013 seeing some places I'd never seen\u2026 [But] money was a big sore point. I did the dates just for salary\u2026 [At the end] I didn't actually say 'See you', cos they were all fucked up\u2026 It was like playing with zombies.\"\nOn July 17, 1993, the band performed in Buenos Aires, Argentina at River Plate Stadium in front of 80,000 people. It was their last show with most of the \"Use Your Illusion\"-era lineup (Rose, Slash, McKagan, Sorum, Reed, and Clarke). The tour was renamed the \"Skin N' Bones Tour\" for the last couple of legs and included an unplugged performance in a living room set. A highlight of the night was Cozy Powell dressed as a Domino's Pizza delivery boy playing drums with Sorum."}
{"id": "731287", "revid": "9813438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731287", "title": "Qualification problem", "text": "In philosophy and AI (especially, knowledge-based systems), the qualification problem is concerned with the impossibility of listing \"all\" the preconditions required for a real-world action to have its intended effect. It might be posed as \"how to deal with the things that prevent me from achieving my intended result\". It is strongly connected to, and opposite the ramification side of, the frame problem. John McCarthy gives the following motivating example, in which it is impossible to enumerate all the circumstances that may prevent a robot from performing its ordinary function:"}
{"id": "731296", "revid": "10071759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731296", "title": "Clearview, Ontario", "text": "Clearview is a rural incorporated township in Simcoe County in Central Ontario, Canada, west of Barrie and south of Collingwood and Wasaga Beach in Simcoe County.\nHistory.\nHuman occupation of the area is evident starting in as early as the Paleo-Indian period.\nBefore the arrival of European settlers, the area of Clearview Township was part of the territory of the Petun, a confederation of Iroquoians who were closely related to the Huron and Neutral peoples. The Petun were ravaged by disease epidemics in the early 17th century and victim to raids by the Iroquois Confederacy (a part of the Beaver Wars), with much of their remaining population fleeing as refugees and vacating the territory. There are abundant archaeological remains in the township from the Petun period.\nEarly settlement on the site of Stayner coincided with the construction of the Toronto, Simcoe and Huron Railway between 1851 and 1855. The community of Stayner, which was originally called Nottawasaga Station, developed into a significant agricultural and lumbering centre. Stayner was incorporated as a village in 1872, and as a Town in 1888. The Village of Creemore was incorporated effective 20 November 1889.\nBefore incorporation, New Lowell was the site of a timber plant owned by Jacques and Hay.\nClearview Township was established on January 1, 1994, when the Town of Stayner, the Village of Creemore and the Townships of Nottawasaga and Sunnidale were amalgamated. The Townships of Nottawasaga and Sunnidale had been incorporated in 1851 and 1858, respectively.\nGeography.\nThe township comprises the communities of Avening, Batteaux, Brentwood, Cashtown Corners, Creemore, Dunedin, Duntroon, Glen Huron, Maple Valley, New Lowell, Nottawa, Pretty River Valley, Singhampton, Smithdale, Stayner, Sunnidale, Sunnidale Corners and Websterville.\nIt borders on the following municipalities:\nClearview (and Simcoe County in general) is part of Central Ontario as well as the Georgian Triangle. The climate in the area is classified as Humid Continental ().\nLocated in the Great Lakes lowlands, it has fertile soil quite suitable for farming. As a result of the proximity to the Great Lakes it suffers from Lake Effect.\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Clearview had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nEconomy.\nAs of 2006, compared to Ontario as a whole, Construction, Agriculture, and Manufacturing industries employ a greater than average percentage of the workforce (Business, Finance and Real Estate employ smaller than average). The employment rate was 67.1% (62.8% for Ontario) and the unemployment rate was 4.5% (6.4% for Ontario). 40% of the workforce worked outside the municipality and 13% worked from home.\nThe well-known Creemore Springs Brewery is located in Creemore.\nHealth Canada medical marijuana licensed producers The Peace Naturals Project and Agripharm Corp. produces their medicinal Cannabis in Clearview Township.\nThe Stayner Sun is the township's newspaper of record. It has published continually since 1877. The newspaper is owned by Metroland Media Group.\nAttractions.\nCreemore was one of the original claimants for the location of Ontario's smallest jailhouse. Its jailhouse, with dimensions at 4.5 metres by 6 metres, make it smaller than the other early claimants, Tweed, and Coboconk; however, others in Rodney, Port Dalhousie, Providence Bay, and Berens River are smaller. Today, the jail has been converted into a museum.\nThere are two arenas (Stayner, Creemore), three Baseball Parks (Nottawa, Stayner, with the largest being in New Lowell) and 3 Golf Courses (Duntroon Highlands, Batteaux Creek Golf Club, Mad River Golf and Country Club) in Clearview. The Bruce Trail runs along the Niagara Escarpment in the western part of the township, and there is a cross-country skiing centre in Duntroon. Devil's Glen Provincial Park, Nottawasaga Lookout and Noisy River Provincial Nature Reserves, and Nottawasaga Bluffs, New Lowell, and Carruthers Memorial Conservation Areas as well as the Mel McKean Memorial Park, Gowan Memorial Park, Ives Park, Kinsmen Participark, and Legion Park are all green spaces located within the township. The Stayner hay monster is located at Fernwood Farm &amp; Market. It is a monster made of hay.\nThe Great Northern Exhibition is held annually in Clearview Township.\nGovernment.\nThe township is administered by a Town Council with one member from each of the seven (numbered) wards, a mayor and deputy-mayor.\nThe administration of the town is divided into the Departments of Finance, Planning and Development, Public Works, an Administration staff as well as the Public Library and Fire Department. All the main administrative buildings of Clearview are located in Stayner.\nThe 2019 approved budget for the township was $28.98 million.\nInfrastructure.\nTransportation.\nMajor roads in Clearview include Highway 26, County Road 124, (formerly Highway 24, and a part of Hurontario Street), County Road 42 (formerly a part of Airport Road), as well as other county roads such as 7, 9, 10, and 91. Despite its name, Collingwood Airport is also located in Clearview.\nClearview Public Transit is a small system that runs in the Clearview Township operating one route that connects in Wasaga Beach. The system started November 21, 2016, and is operated by Sinton-Landmark.\nThe Simcoe County LINX inter-community bus service's 2 Wasaga Beach to Barrie route has stops in Clearview at the Brentwood Community Centre in Brentwood and the Clearview Administration Centre in Stayner.\nServices.\nClearview is served by Collingwood General And Marine Hospital in Collingwood. Policing services are provided by the Huronia West detachment of the OPP out of Wasaga Beach. Fire protection is provided by volunteer fire stations located throughout the township.\nEducation.\nClearview township is served by the Simcoe County District School Board (SCDSB), Simcoe Muskoka Catholic District School Board (SMCDS) and the French Catholic School Board Conseil scolaire catholique MonAvenir. A number of schools, although located in other municipalities (specifically Collingwood, Essa Township and Wasaga Beach), have catchment areas that extend into Clearview.\nWhile there is no post-secondary education in Clearview itself, the main campus of Georgian College is in nearby Barrie with a satellite campus in Collingwood nearby.\nThe Clearview Public Library maintains branches in Stayner, Creemore and New Lowell."}
{"id": "731297", "revid": "1493851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731297", "title": "Clearview", "text": "Clearview or clear view may refer to:"}
{"id": "731302", "revid": "51184986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731302", "title": "Miami Floridians", "text": "The Miami Floridians, later in their history known simply as The Floridians, were a professional basketball franchise in the original, now-defunct American Basketball Association (ABA). The Miami Floridians played in the ABA from 1968 through 1970 when they became simply The Floridians. The team had two color schemes: their original red, blue, and white, and their later black, magenta, and orange.\nThe Miami Floridians began as the Minnesota Muskies, a charter ABA franchise who played in Bloomington, Minnesota, at the Metropolitan Sports Center and wore blue and gold. The Muskies finished with the league's second-best record, but wretched attendance figures (officially 2,800 per game, a figure that was likely padded) led owner Larry Shields to conclude that the team could not be viable in the Twin Cities. He sold minority shares to a group of Florida businessmen and moved the team to Miami. However, in order to pay leftover debts in Minnesota, Shields sold Rookie of the Year Mel Daniels to the Indiana Pacers, a deal now reckoned as the most lopsided trade in ABA history.\nMove to Miami.\nThe Floridians never attracted a large following, despite numerous promotions\u2014including ballgirls wearing white bikinis and go-go boots. However, the team did manage to make the playoffs three out of the four years of their existence. The Floridians' first homes were the Miami Beach Convention Center and the Convention Center Annex. Coached by former Minneapolis Lakers great Jim Pollard, the 1968\u201369 season was the most successful for the Miami Floridians by far, finishing their first season in Florida with a 43\u201335 record and defeating the defending champion Minnesota Pipers (who played in the city the Floridians had just abandoned) in the Eastern Division semifinals 4 games to 3, before losing in the divisional finals to the Pacers 4 games to 1.\nThe 1969\u201370 season was largely forgettable for the Floridians. They split their home games between Dinner Key Auditorium and Miami-Dade Junior College's North Campus gym. Dinner Key, a former aircraft hangar, was perhaps the most infamous building in ABA history. It had no air conditioning and would often get quite hot inside, forcing management to throw open the doors; players would then have to adjust their shots by the ocean breezes that whistled onto the court. The Floridians dismissed Pollard during the season and named Hal Blitman of Cheyney State College as their head coach. The minority partners began taking a greater role in team operations, often trading players without Blitman's knowledge. Not surprisingly, given the constant turnover on the roster, the Floridians finished 23-61 and missed the playoffs. The team's original owners, Shields and Fred Jefferson, sold the Floridians at the end of the season.\nThe Floridians.\nFollowing the 1969\u201370 season, new owner Ned Doyle dropped \"Miami\" from the team's name and made it a \"regional\" franchise, scheduling games in Miami (back at the Miami Beach Convention Center), in the Tampa Bay area at Curtis Hixon Hall and Bayfront Center, in Jacksonville at the Jacksonville Memorial Coliseum, and in West Palm Beach at the West Palm Beach Auditorium. In an unprecedented move, Doyle \"fired\" the entire team (all players were either traded or released prior to the start of their new season) and kept the coach. The team replaced Blitman after an 18\u201330 start with Bob Bass. Bass was able to turn the team around and the Floridians finished fourth in the Eastern Division with a record of 37\u201347. The Floridians made the playoffs, but lost their series to the Kentucky Colonels, 4\u20132.\nFor the 1971\u201372 season, the Floridians split their home games between Miami and Tampa. They again finished in fourth place in the Eastern Division, with a record of 36\u201348. Once again the team made the playoffs and once again they lost their series, this time to the Virginia Squires, 4\u20130.\nThe Floridians had to use the gymnasium of Dade County Junior College for their two playoff games, reportedly because the Convention Center had booked other events not thinking the team would make the playoffs. The dreadful attendance for their two home playoff games against the Squires convinced Doyle that the team could not be viable in South Florida. After a deal to relocate to Cincinnati fell through, attempts to find a bigger market in Albuquerque, San Diego, Montreal, and Omaha also turned up nil for different reasons. By June of 1972, rumblings of a potential merger between the ABA and the National Basketball Association (NBA) led to speculation that any attempt of it happening would leave the Floridians out, as they were listed as among the weak franchises in the league, alongside the Pittsburgh Condors and the Memphis Pros. On June 13, 1972, Commissioner Jack Dolph announced that the Condors and Floridians would be disbanded. Ironically, San Diego would end up getting their own ABA expansion team in the San Diego Conquistadors in what essentially became a replacement for both The Floridians and the Pittsburgh Condors (who also considered San Diego as an option to move their franchise before shutting down operations) months later. Big-time basketball wouldn't return to Florida until an NBA expansion team, the Miami Heat, played their first season in 1988. The Orlando Magic followed suit a year later.\nThe Heat franchise paid tribute to the Floridians franchise in recent years by wearing near replicas (the jerseys instead had \"Miami\" on the front to go along with a smaller \"Floridians\" wordmark on the shorts) of the 1970\u201371 (and 1971\u201372) Floridians home and away uniforms for several games in the 2005\u201306 and 2011\u201312 seasons as part of the NBA's \"Hardwood Classics Night\" program.\nBasketball Hall of Famers.\nNotes:"}
{"id": "731305", "revid": "1169106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731305", "title": "Dante Hicks", "text": ""}
{"id": "731308", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731308", "title": "Clifford Price", "text": ""}
{"id": "731309", "revid": "20585603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731309", "title": "Bracebridge", "text": "Bracebridge may refer to:"}
{"id": "731316", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731316", "title": "Gammahydroxybutyrate", "text": ""}
{"id": "731319", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731319", "title": "Hereditary fructose intolerance", "text": "Hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) is an inborn error of fructose metabolism caused by a deficiency of the enzyme aldolase B. Individuals affected with HFI are asymptomatic until they ingest fructose, sucrose, or sorbitol. If fructose is ingested, the enzymatic block at aldolase B causes an accumulation of fructose-1-phosphate which, over time, results in the death of liver cells. This accumulation has downstream effects on gluconeogenesis and regeneration of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Symptoms of HFI include vomiting, convulsions, irritability, poor feeding as a baby, hypoglycemia, jaundice, hemorrhage, hepatomegaly, hyperuricemia and potentially kidney failure. There are reported deaths in infants and children as a result of the metabolic consequences of HFI. Death in HFI is always associated with problems in diagnosis.\nHFI is an autosomal recessive condition caused by mutations in the \"ALDOB\" gene, located at 9q31.1. HFI is typically suspected based on dietary history, especially in infants who become symptomatic after breast feeding. This suspicion is typically confirmed by molecular analysis Treatment of HFI involves strict avoidance of fructose in the diet. Older patients with HFI typically self-select a diet low in fructose, even before being diagnosed.\nPresentation.\nThe key identifying feature of HFI is the appearance of symptoms with the introduction of fructose to the diet. Affected individuals are asymptomatic and healthy, provided they do not ingest foods containing fructose or any of its common precursors, sucrose and sorbitol. In the past, infants often became symptomatic when they were introduced to formulas that were sweetened with fructose or sucrose. These sweeteners are not common in formulas used today. Symptoms such as vomiting, nausea, restlessness, pallor, sweating, trembling and lethargy can also first present in infants when they are introduced to fruits and vegetables. These can progress to apathy, coma and convulsions if the source is not recognized early.\nWhen patients are diagnosed with HFI, a dietary history will often reveal an aversion to fruit and other foods that contain large amounts of fructose. Most adult patients do not have any dental caries.\nFructose metabolism.\nAfter ingestion, fructose is converted to fructose-1-phosphate in the liver by fructokinase. Deficiencies of fructokinase cause essential fructosuria, a clinically benign condition characterized by the excretion of unmetabolized fructose in the urine. Fructose-1-phosphate is metabolized by aldolase B into dihydroxyacetone phosphate and glyceraldehyde. HFI is caused by a deficiency of aldolase B.\nA deficiency of aldolase B results in an accumulation of fructose-1-phosphate, and trapping of phosphate (fructokinase requires adenosine triphosphate (ATP)). The downstream effects of this enzyme block are the inhibition of glucose production and reduced regeneration of ATP.\nDiagnosis.\nBecause of the ease of therapy (dietary exclusion of fructose), HFI can be effectively managed if properly diagnosed. In HFI, the diagnosis of homozygotes is difficult, requiring a genomic DNA screening with allele-specific probes or an enzyme assay from a liver biopsy. Once identified, parents of infants who carry mutant aldolase B alleles leading to HFI, or older individuals who have clinical histories compatible with HFI can be identified and counselled with regard to preventive therapy: dietary exclusion of foods containing fructose, sucrose, or sorbitol. If possible, individuals who suspect they might have HFI should avoid testing via fructose challenge as the results are non-conclusive for individuals with HFI, and even if the diagnostic administration of fructose is properly controlled, profound hypoglycemia and its sequelae can threaten the patient's well-being.\nTreatment.\nTreatment of HFI depends on the stage of the disease, and the severity of the symptoms. Stable patients without acute intoxication events are treated by careful dietary planning that avoids fructose and its metabolic precursors. Fructose is replaced in the diet by glucose, maltose or other sugars. Management of patients with HFI often involves dietitians who have a thorough knowledge of what foods are acceptable.\nScythian mutation.\nGenetic analysis of ancient Don Scythians found an ALDOB gene pathogenic variant named p.Ala150Pro or rs1800546. Those people's diet was mostly meat, dairy, and C4 plants with no fruits. Their skeletons showed no indications of tooth decay. That variant spread through Europe to be by far the main cause of hereditary fructose intolerance."}
{"id": "731324", "revid": "149211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731324", "title": "Tevzemei un Brivibai", "text": ""}
{"id": "731339", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731339", "title": "Canvas (disambiguation)", "text": "Canvas is a heavy-duty fabric, used for making sails and as a support for an oil painting.\nCanvas may also refer to:"}
{"id": "731341", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731341", "title": "Fpr Fatherland and Freedom", "text": ""}
{"id": "731343", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731343", "title": "Brindley Benn", "text": "Brindley Horatio Benn, CCH (24 January 1923 \u2013 11 December 2009) was a teacher, choirmaster, politician, and one of the key leaders of the Guyanese independence movement. He was put under restriction when the constitution was suspended in 1953. In 1957, Benn served as Minister of Community Development and Education in the first elected government of Guyana, and between 1961 and 1964 as Minister of Natural Resources. From 1993 to 1998, he served as High Commissioner of Guyana to Canada.\nEarly life.\nBorn in Kitty, Georgetown, Brindley Horatio Benn, named for the Methodist minister J.B. Brindley, was the second of two boys born to Rosa and Samuel Benn. He attended St. James-the-Less Primary School (now F. E. Pollard), Kitty, and also briefly attended a Roman Catholic School in Queenstown. Benn wrote his Junior and Senior Cambridge Examinations at the Central High School. He gained five subjects at Junior Cambridge \u2013 English Language, English History, Literature, Latin and French. He sat five subjects at Senior Cambridge but did not matriculate, since he did not pass Mathematics.\nEarly career.\nAfter finishing school, Benn travelled to Kwakwani to work as a clerk with the Bauxite Company. His parents were living in the mining community at the time and his father was a senior staff member at the Reynolds Mining and Metals Company. His mother was a caterer and a boarding house proprietor in the community, where she became popular for her activity in social and community life. Samuel Benn died in Kwakwani in 1948 and was buried there. Rosa remained in the community until the early 1960s, when she returned to Georgetown.\nBenn returned to Georgetown in the early 1940s when the Bauxite Company started to scale down the workforce. He began teaching at a secondary school (currently the Richard Ishmael Secondary School) and briefly had his own school, Georgetown Secondary, which was located in Evans Street. He operated the school for about three years.\nChoir involvement.\nBenn was a chorister at St. James the Less Anglican Church with Choirmasters who included the late Claude Merriman. He later became Choir Master at the St. Sidwell's Anglican Church around 1945 and served for about five years, until the Choir was disbanded. The Choir competed successfully at several choir festivals and became very popular with the public, especially its Friday practice sessions. St. Sidwell's Choir was the smallest at the time when it performed Stainer's \"The Crucifixion\" and was noted for performing some of the most difficult choral pieces then in existence. The organist was the legendary Carl Welshman. Some members of Benn's chorister group included the late broadcaster Matthew Allen, Senior Counsel Lloyd Joseph and Wittington Braithwaite.\nAfter the Choir disbanded, Benn went to teach Latin and French at Richard Ishmael's Secondary School, where he organized a school choir which put on a concert at the Georgetown City Hall. He spent three years there.\nPolitical activity.\nOne evening, during his teaching career, Benn attended a public meeting at Norton and John Streets, where he listened to Dr. Cheddi Jagan criticise the state of the bauxite industry and the colony of Guyana. Impressed by Dr. Jagan's speech, Benn joined the People's Progressive Party the same night. He immediately became very involved in politics, an avocation that led to conflict with his superior at the Secondary School. The principal, Richard Ishmael, was also President of the Manpower Citizens' Association, a union which represented sugar workers but which was widely considered a company union.\nBenn subsequently left the school and became even more deeply involved in politics. He formed the Pioneer Youth League, the forerunner to the Progressive Youth Organisation (PYO).\nArrest and relocation.\nWhen the colonial constitution was suspended in 1953, Benn was detained and put under restriction orders in New Amsterdam, where he had gone to assess Party activity. He was ordered to report to the police between 8 and 10 a.m. every day except Sunday. His wife and three children regularly commuted by train to visit him where he lived with his brother, Lancelot, who worked as a driver mechanic with PWD at Canje.\nAfter several raids by the army and the police on his brother's home, it was decided that his wife and family would move to New Amsterdam, where they established residence at 21 St. Magdelane Street. They lived there from 1954 to 1956 and the family increased by two with the birth of twins.\nParty office.\nUpon his return to Georgetown in 1956, Benn was elected Chairman of the People's Progressive Party (PPP) and Member of the Executive Committee. The PPP contested the 1957 elections with Benn as the representative of the Essequibo Islands and the Interior. That single constituency comprised the largest single land area being contested in the country, and he came up against the candidacy of Mr. E. F. Corriea. He broke the long occupancy of the seat by Mr. Corriea when he won the election.\nBenn was appointed Minister of Community Development and Education in 1957 and given an office across the road from the Parliament Building. During that time that he organised the National History and Culture Week (1961\u20131964) under the theme 'One People, One Nation, One Destiny', which later became independent Guyana's motto.\nAfter the 1961 general elections, which the PPP also won, Benn was appointed Minister of Natural Resources. During this time he conceptualised and founded the Guyana School of Agriculture (1963). He oversaw the implementation of the Mahaica Mahaicony Abary (MMA) Scheme, Boersarie Scheme, Tapacuma Scheme and the Black Bush Polder \u2013 all major drainage and irrigation schemes.\nFurther strife.\nDuring the disturbances in the early 1960s, Benn was imprisoned by the British. During this period, the British successfully split the PPP along racial lines\u2014the originally nationalist and multi-ethnic PPP became the party that was allegedly the party of Indo-Guyanese, whereas most Afro-Guyanese joined the People's National Congress (PNC). Brindley Benn became the most prominent Afro-Guyanese to remain with the PPP, making a statement against the divide-and-rule tactics of colonialism. The PPP was removed from office in 1964 by the political machinations of the British (\"see History of Guyana.\") Several Ministers and other important persons were detained. Among them was Brindley Benn, who was confined at Sibley Hall of Mazaruni Prison for several months.\nA new direction.\nAfter his release in 1965, Benn became disenchanted by the differences in opinion in the PPP. He moved away from the party to establish his own \u2013 the Working People's Vanguard Party (WPVP). The WPVP printed a weekly mimeographed account of social, economic and political affairs occurring locally and internationally. Benn was for a time strongly attracted to the Maoist vision of a peasant-led social revolution. In the late 1970s, he joined with Walter Rodney, Eusi Kwayana, Andaiye, Moses Baghwan and Rupert Roopnaraine to form the Working People's Alliance. Discussions were held under the umbrella organization Patriotic Coalition for Democracy (PCD) in the fight for free and fair elections in Guyana.\nPolitical renaissance.\nIn 1992, with the return of democracy to Guyana, the PPP were returned to office by free and fair elections. Benn accepted President Dr. Jagan's offer to be on the PPP's list of candidates and won a seat in Parliament. He was later appointed Guyana's High Commissioner to Canada, a position he held with distinction from 1993 to 1998.\nUpon his return to Guyana, Brindley Benn served as Chairman of the Public Service Commission for three years. He was also a member of the Teaching Service Commission and the Police Service Commission. Benn was the Chairman of the Guyana Lotteries Commission and served on the Appeals Board of the Guyana Revenue Authority.\nDeath.\nBrindley died on 11 December 2009, aged 86, after a long illness.\nPersonal life.\nBenn was a member of St. Paul's Anglican Church at Plaisance and of its Men's Guild.\nHe married his wife Patricia in 1951; they remained together throughout his life. The Benns had seven children \u2013 including fraternal twins \u2013 and eight grandchildren.\nHis son, Robeson Benn is a government minister."}
{"id": "731346", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731346", "title": "West Nipissing", "text": "West Nipissing is a municipality in Northeastern Ontario, Canada, on Lake Nipissing in the Nipissing District. It was formed on January 1, 1999, with the amalgamation of seventeen and a half former towns, villages, townships and unorganized communities.\nIt is the most bilingual community in Ontario, with 73.4% of its population fluent in both English and French.\nCommunities.\nThe primary administrative and commercial centre of West Nipissing is the community of Sturgeon Falls, which is situated on the Sturgeon River, north of Lake Nipissing and west of North Bay on Highway 17, part of the Trans-Canada Highway. Roughly half the population of West Nipissing lives in Sturgeon Falls.\nField is located on Highway 64, approximately north of Sturgeon Falls. In 1979, the Sturgeon River overflowed its banks, flooding the town's centre. Many houses were demolished and rebuilt on higher ground nearby. The Thistle Fire Tower is to be dismantled and re-erected here as a tourist attraction. Logging, farming and outdoor recreational activities are main village industries.\nVerner is located on the Veuve River (Rivi\u00e8re Veuve), at the western junction of highways 17 and 64, approximately west of Sturgeon Falls. The largely francophone community serves as an agricultural hub for the surrounding area and offers a consumers' cooperative and farm equipment dealers. The town was named for the wife of Canadian Pacific Railway superintendent Archer Baker, who oversaw the laying of track through the West Nipissing area in the 1880s.\nMany of the francophone settlers immigrated to the area from Michigan in the late 19th century in order to preserve their language; they were concerned they would lose their language in the predominantly anglophone United States. Many of the families that settled in Lavigne and Verner came from the Lanaudi\u00e8re region of Quebec from villages such as St-F\u00e9lix-de-Valois, St-Gabriel-de-Brandon and Ste-\u00c9lisabeth.\nSmaller communities in the municipality include Cache Bay, Caderette, Crystal Falls, Desaulniers, Evansville, Harfred, Kirk, Lavigne, Notre-Dame-du-Lac, Domr\u00e9my and River Valley. It also includes part of the North Monetville area, which straddles the boundary between West Nipissing and French River. The Nipissing First Nation is also located nearby and is closely associated with West Nipissing.\nCache Bay, named after the nearby water feature on a \"hidden bay\" of Lake Nipissing, had a post office that was established in 1889.\nHistory.\nThe original inhabitants of the area are the N'Biissing, an Anishinabek people, and many N'Biissing still inhabit the area today. A trading post was founded in the last quarter of the 18th century on an island on Lake Nipissing at the mouth of the La Vase River, called Fort La Ronde and was operated by Louis Denis de la Ronde (1675\u20131741). Fort La Ronde was moved numerous times to different islands on Lake Nipissing. It was later sold to North West Company. It was later bought by the Hudson's Bay Company around 1820 and was later relocated on the right bank of the river several hundred metres below the falls, at the mouth of Sturgeon River, trading with the N'Biissing for furs and other goods. James R. Holditch of Utterson, Ontario is generally credited as being the first permanent non-aboriginal settler in the area. He arrived in 1878 and built a cabin on the left bank, near the waterfalls. Nowadays, the Sturgeon River House Museum sits where the HBC trading post was. It was founded as a centennial project in 1967 by the Historical Restoration Committee of the Sturgeon Falls Secondary High School, the Township of Springer and the Town of Cache Bay, in cooperation and funded by the Government of Canada and the Government of Ontario. It was renovated and re-opened in 1999 and upgraded to include a permanent building capable of being open year-round and vastly improved its exhibits. It is now an agency of the Municipality of West Nipissing and supports the West Nipissing tax base.\nThe region began to grow in the 1880s, with the arrival of the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR) and the efforts of Fr. Charles Alfred Marie Paradis, an Oblate missionary, to develop an agricultural settlement for Franco-Ontarians in the Verner area.\nThe development of Sturgeon Falls began in 1881 with the arrival of Canadian Pacific Railway construction crews. The area's first post office was opened in Sturgeon Falls in 1881. Lumbering and the establishment of pulp and paper industries accelerated the village's growth and attracted many French-Canadian settlers to the area.\nThe addition of sawmills and the rapid growth of the lumbering and pulp and paper industries stimulated the development of the village and attracted many French-Canadian settlers to the area. The town of Sturgeon Falls was incorporated on April 16, 1895. At the time, J. A. L\u00e9vis was elected the first mayor and the population was 850.\nThe Canadian Pacific Railway was joined by the Canadian Northern Railway in 1915, with its line between Capreol and North Bay. This line later became the Canadian National Railway Alderdale Subdivision, with station stops (from east to west) in Harfred, Crystal Falls, Ashburton, Field, Desaulniers, and River Valley, along with several industrial spurs to serve local industries. CN rail service declined in the mid-20th century and was eliminated altogether in 1996.\nThe community of Field suffered two significant natural disasters in the 1970s. On August 20, 1970, it was hit by a small tornado associated with the Sudbury tornado event. In the spring of 1979 the Sturgeon River overflowed its banks at Field, causing massive flooding in the town's centre. Half the town that was located in the flood plain was relocated to higher ground two kilometres south of the original town centre on Highway 64. This new location is known as New Field (Val-des-Arbres).\nOn January 1, 1999, the Town of Cache Bay, Town of Sturgeon Falls, Township of Caldwell, Township of Field, and the unorganized township of Springer were amalgamated to form the new Municipality of West Nipissing.\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, West Nipissing had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nMother tongue (2021):\nTransportation.\nOntario Northland motor coach service makes scheduled stops in Sturgeon Falls and Verner.\nMedia and education.\nThe region is served primarily by broadcast stations from North Bay and Sudbury. Two commercial radio stations, CFSF-FM and CHYQ-FM, broadcast from Sturgeon Falls.\nThe area has a bilingual weekly newspaper, \"Tribune: West Nipissing This Week / La Voix du Nipissing Ouest\", which was previously called \"The Sturgeon Falls Tribune\". It is also served by the daily \"North Bay Nugget\".\nStudents attend either Northern Secondary School (\u00c9cole secondaire publique Northern) or \u00c9cole secondaire catholique Franco-Cit\u00e9."}
{"id": "731353", "revid": "149211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731353", "title": "TP-LNNK", "text": ""}
{"id": "731357", "revid": "149211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731357", "title": "Tevzemei Un Brivibai", "text": ""}
{"id": "731360", "revid": "3492060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731360", "title": "Fatherland and Freedom", "text": "The phrase \"fatherland and freedom\" or \"fatherland and liberty\" may refer to"}
{"id": "731365", "revid": "43462424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731365", "title": "George B. Cortelyou", "text": "George Bruce Cortelyou (July 26, 1862October 23, 1940) was an American cabinet secretary of the early twentieth century. He served in various capacities in the presidential administrations of Grover Cleveland, William McKinley, and Theodore Roosevelt.\nBorn in New York City, Cortelyou worked for the United States Post Office Department and came to the attention of Postmaster General Wilson S. Bissell. On Bissell's recommendation, President Cleveland hired Cortelyou as his chief clerk. On Cleveland's recommendation, McKinley hired Cortelyou as his personal secretary. After the assassination of William McKinley, Roosevelt asked Cortelyou to lead an effort to reorganize the White House.\nImpressed with Cortelyou's performance, Roosevelt appointed him United States Secretary of Commerce and Labor in 1903. He left this position in 1904 to become chairman of the Republican National Committee, and in 1905 he also served as Postmaster General. He left both positions to become the United States Secretary of the Treasury in 1907. In this position, he worked to keep the economy stable during the Panic of 1907. After Roosevelt left office in 1909, Cortelyou became president of the Consolidated Gas Company. He died in 1940.\nEarly life.\nCortelyou was born in New York City to Rose (\"n\u00e9e\" Seary) and Peter Crolius Cortelyou Jr. He was a member of an old New Netherlandish family whose immigrant ancestor, Jacques Cortelyou, arrived in 1652. He was educated in the public schools of Brooklyn, at Nazareth Hall Military Academy in Pennsylvania, and at Hempstead Institute on Long Island.\nAt the age of 20, Cortelyou received a BA degree from Westfield Normal School, now Westfield State University, a teachers' college in Westfield, Massachusetts. He earned law degrees from George Washington University and Georgetown University. He was a member of the Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity while at George Washington University. Cortelyou then began teaching, later taking a stenography course and mastering shorthand. On September 15, 1888, Cortelyou married the former Lily Morris Hinds, with whom he had five children.\nEarly career.\nIn 1891 he obtained a position as secretary to the chief postal inspector of New York. The following year, a promotion led to a position as secretary to the Fourth Assistant Postmaster General in Washington, D.C. In 1895, President Grover Cleveland hired Cortelyou as his chief clerk on the recommendation of Postmaster General Wilson S. Bissell. Cleveland recommended him as personal secretary to his successor, William McKinley. Cortelyou was working to improve the efficiency of the office when President McKinley was assassinated in 1901. He was the third president to be assassinated.\nMcKinley was greeting visitors at the Temple of Music at the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, New York, on September 6, 1901, when he was shot twice at close range by lone assassin Leon Czolgosz, a twenty-eight-year-old anarchist. As McKinley collapsed, he was caught and supported by his aides, including Cortelyou. As he was held in their arms, he whispered, \"My wife... be careful, Cortelyou, how you tell her. Oh, be careful.\" He died eight days later at the age of fifty-eight.\nAfter succeeding McKinley as president, Theodore Roosevelt charged Cortelyou with transforming the White House into a more professional organization. Cortelyou developed procedures and rules that guided White House protocol and established processes for which there had been only personal prerogative. Cortelyou is also credited with establishing an improved line of communication between the President's office and the press; he provided reporters with their own work space, briefed journalists on major news events, and distributed press releases. Cortelyou is credited with establishing the first systematic collection of press clippings for a sitting president to review. The \"Current Clippings\" were the first attempt by a president to gauge public opinion through the media. Cortelyou selected the articles objectively, a practice not consistently followed by his successors.\nRoosevelt's administration.\nCortelyou served as the first Secretary of Commerce and Labor from February 18, 1903, to June 30, 1904. He also served as Postmaster General from March 6, 1905, to January 14, 1907, and was Secretary of the Treasury, all under Theodore Roosevelt. From 1904 to 1907, Cortelyou also served as chairman of the Republican National Committee, working for the successful re-election of Theodore Roosevelt.\nOn April 9, 1903, he was made an honorary member of the Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia fraternity. He had attended the New England Conservatory of Music, where the fraternity was founded.\nCortelyou served as Secretary of the Treasury from March 4, 1907, to March 7, 1909. This was during the devastating Panic of 1907. Like his predecessor, Leslie M. Shaw, Cortelyou believed it was the duty of the Treasury to protect the banking system, but he realized that the Treasury was not equipped to maintain economic stability. He mitigated the crisis by depositing large amounts of government funds in national banks and buying government bonds. To prevent future crises, Cortelyou advocated a more flexible currency and recommended the creation of a central banking system.\nIn 1908, the Aldrich\u2013Vreeland Act was passed, providing for a special currency to be issued in times of panic and creating a commission that led to the creation of the Federal Reserve in 1913.\nLater life, death, and legacy.\nHe returned to the private sector as president of the Consolidated Gas Company, later known as Consolidated Edison. He was also one of the chairmen of the Con Edison Energy Museum, which is now closed. He lived at his home \"Harbor Lights\" in Halesite, Long Island until his death in October 1940. Edith Roosevelt attended the wake at his home, as she was a close friend of his wife. He is buried in the Memorial Cemetery of St. John's Church in Laurel Hollow, New York. Cortelyou, an unincorporated community in Washington County, Alabama, changed its name from Richardson to Cortelyou while George Cortelyou was United States Postmaster General. In 1942, a Liberty ship was to be named for him; this ship later became the cargo ship USS \"Cetus\"."}
{"id": "731366", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731366", "title": "George Bruce Cortelyou", "text": ""}
{"id": "731367", "revid": "51294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731367", "title": "George Saville, 1st Marquess of Halifax", "text": ""}
{"id": "731368", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731368", "title": "George Cortelyou", "text": ""}
{"id": "731373", "revid": "11889267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731373", "title": "Oliver Davis (actor)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731386", "revid": "45364314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731386", "title": "Toy dog", "text": "Toy dog traditionally refers to a very small dog or a grouping of small and very small breeds of dog. A toy dog may be of any of various dog types. Types of dogs referred to as toy dogs may include spaniels, pinschers and terriers that have been bred down in size. Not all toy dogs are lap dogs.\nSmall dogs.\nDogs found in the toy group of breed registries may be of the very ancient lapdog type, or they may be small versions of hunting dogs or working dogs, bred down in size for a particular kind of work or to create a pet of convenient size. In the past, very small dogs not used for hunting were kept as symbols of affluence, as watchdogs, and for the health function of attracting fleas away from their owners. Dogs that are especially small for their breed are also known as teacup dogs.\nBreeds.\nMost major dog clubs in the English-speaking world have a toy group, under one exact name or another, in which they place breeds of dog that the kennel club categorizes as \"toy\", based on size and tradition. The Kennel Club (UK), the Canadian Kennel Club, the American Kennel Club, the Australian National Kennel Council, and the New Zealand Kennel Club all have a group named \"Toy\", although they may not all categorise the same breeds in this category. The United States has a second major kennel club, the United Kennel Club (UKC, originally formed for hunting and working breeds, though general today), and it does not recognize such a group; instead, small dogs are placed with larger dogs of their type, or into a UKC's \"Companion Dog\" group. the American Kennel Club began debating whether or not to change the name of their \"Toy\" group to \"Companion\", in order to emphasise that dogs are not playthings, but the name change was resisted by traditionalists.\nThe breeds in the \"Companion and Toy\" category of the F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Cynologique Internationale are:\nSmall or toy-sized breeds not classified by the FCI in its toy group include:\nMember kennel clubs of the F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Cynologique Internationale and non-member clubs may use slightly different nomenclature, depending on the country. The term \"toy\" is only used to group dogs for show purposes.\nSome breeds without FCI recognition are recognised by The Kennel Club of Great Britain (UK), by the Canadian Kennel Club (Can), or by the American Kennel Club:\nThe major national kennel club for each country will have its own list of breeds that it recognizes as Toy. In addition, some new or newly documented rare breeds may be awaiting approval by a given kennel club. Some new breeds may currently be recognized only by their breed clubs. Some rare new breeds have been given breed names, but may only be available from the breeder or breeders who are developing the breed, and may not yet be recognized by any kennel club.\nIn addition to the major registries, there are a plethora of sporting clubs, breed clubs, and internet-based breed registries and businesses in which dogs may be registered in whatever way the owner or seller wishes."}
{"id": "731387", "revid": "51621925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731387", "title": "Testicular self-examination", "text": "Testicular self-examination (TSE) is a procedure where a man examines his own testicles and scrotum for possible lumps or swelling. It is usually undertaken at home while standing in front of a mirror and after having a warm bath or shower. Monthly self-examination of the testicles starting at puberty may be an effective way of detecting testicular cancer at an early, potentially treatable stage, which can lead to a 5-year survival rate of 98%. In men aged 15 to 40, testicular cancer is the most common cancer, and the annual rate of increase over the last 10 years in cases of testicular cancer is approximately 1% each year. Testicular cancer typically presents with a painless testicular swelling or a lump or any change in shape or texture of the testicles.\nTSE is also indicated if there are certain risk factors present, such as a family history of testicular cancer. Additionally, outside of the possible early detection of testicular cancer, other \"off label\" uses of TSEs include detection of indirect inguinal hernias, varicocele, and infections that may affect the testicles, such as mumps. The efficacy of TSEs in detection of these pathologies relies on proper technique, but if done correctly, TSEs can be very beneficial to the health of the individual and have many public health benefits as well.\nUses.\nMonthly self-examination of the testicles, starting at puberty, may be an effective way of detecting testicular cancer at an early, and potentially treatable stage. Recommendations vary with some physicians recommending the use of monthly TSE for men ages 15 to 55.\nPractitioners may recommend testicular self-exam (TSE) when the following risk factors are present:\nProfessional guidelines.\nThere is no general medical consensus for recommendations on TSE. The effectiveness of performing TSE in reducing morbidity and mortality from testicular cancer is not known. Not all organizations endorse the procedure as a screening test, arguing that it may lead to unnecessary treatments and unnecessary anxiety. The benefit of TSE is uncertain due to there being no randomized control trial studying the use of TSE. Many organizations have established guidelines regarding the utilization of testicular self examination as well as the use of testicular examination by a medical provider as a diagnostic tool. These guidelines can be found in the table below.\nTechnique.\nFor men who choose to perform TSE, it is recommended to perform TSE once monthly, at approximately the same time every month. Performing TSE during or after a warm bath or shower may help to relax the skin of the scrotum and make the structures within the scrotum easier to feel.\nExisting guidelines indicate that TSE is best performed in the standing position. Individuals performing TSE may choose to stand in front of a mirror in order to visualize the scrotum and testicles from various angles. First, the scrotum and testicles may be visually examined for any skin changes or visible swelling. Then, with the thumb placed on the upper surface and the index and middle finger placed on the lower surface, each testicle can be rolled between the thumb and fingers to feel for potential findings. It is also recommended to locate and feel the epididymis, a soft, rope- or tube-like structure that runs behind each testicle, in order to avoid confusing this structure for a potentially abnormal finding.\nFindings.\nNormal findings during TSE include testicles that feel round, smooth, and homogenous in texture, and that are mobile within the scrotum. It is normal and common for one testicle to be larger and hang lower in the scrotum than the other.\nFindings that may be abnormal and should be discussed with healthcare providers include:\nLimitations.\nThe effectiveness of performing routine TSE in men without symptoms in reducing morbidity and mortality from testicular cancer is not clear, and as such, not all organizations endorse the procedure as a screening test, arguing that it may lead to unnecessary treatments. Additionally, some signs and symptoms of testicular cancer found during TSE are common to other disorders of the male urinary tract and reproductive organs, including hydrocele testis, spermatocele, genitourinary system cancers, urinary tract infections, sexually transmitted infections, or testicular torsion, which may prompt medical attention to preserve reproductive and urinary function. These potential false positives may cause unnecessary concern or anxiety to patients.\nSociety and culture.\nTesticular self-examination has generally low rates of practice in part because young men have very low rates of health-seeking behaviors, leading to higher rates of mortality and morbidity. This is likely influenced by the fact that men face potential perceived societal pressures and judgement, which create obstacles to these patients seeking care.\nEducation and promotion.\nEducational interventions that teach men about and how to perform testicular self-examination have been shown to improve men's knowledge and beliefs surrounding TSEs and testicular health. Educational programs using brochures, videos, online-based lessons, and other methods have improved men's self-efficacy in performing the exam and increased recognized benefits of the exam. Other successful interventions have included motivational videos and virtual reality (VR). These interventions have been shown to increase the likelihood of performing these self-checks and have also increased men's testicular health knowledge. Programs that are delivered by medical professionals such as nurses or physicians are considered to be the most effective for improving awareness and knowledge.\nComplementary approaches using humor-based public health messages have also been explored to make discussions of men's health less stigmatized and more approachable. These public health messages tend to use puns or sexual innuendos (i.e. \"Touch Yourself Tonight\"). Evidence shows that humor-based public service announcements about TSEs can reduce anxiety and stigma, and increase motivation towards performing these self checks. Researchers do note that the humor must be audience appropriate in order to effectively reach a wide variety of men. Sexualized or stereotypical humor may isolate some men, whereas lighter humor that avoids sexualized or stereotypical rhetoric can enhance promotion and awareness."}
{"id": "731392", "revid": "50736708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731392", "title": "South Glengarry", "text": "South Glengarry is a township in eastern Ontario, Canada on the Saint Lawrence River in the United Counties of Stormont, Dundas and Glengarry. South Glengarry borders Quebec.\nCommunities.\nThe township of South Glengarry comprises a number of villages and hamlets, including the following communities:\nIn the former Charlottenburgh Township:\nIn the former Lancaster Township:\nThe township administrative offices are located in Lancaster.\nHistory.\nCharlottenburgh and Lancaster were two of the original eight \"Royal Townships\", established along the Saint Lawrence River in Upper Canada in the 1780s. This area was first settled by United Empire Loyalists. The development of this area was encouraged by Sir John Johnson, then the Superintendent General and Inspector General of Indian Affairs, who had been forced to abandon his land holdings in New York State during the American Revolution. Johnson built a house in Williamstown; the home was completed in 1785 and is now a Canadian National Historic Site, the Sir John Johnson Manor House. A grist mill and saw mill, now gone, were also built on the same location. Williamstown also has the oldest house in Ontario, The Bethune-Thompson House built in 1784. Occupants over the years have included the Reverend John Bethune (1751\u20131815), the great-great-grandfather of Doctor Norman Bethune, and David Thompson, Canadian explorer.\nFrom the late 18th century to the early 19th century, the area was almost entirely settled by Scottish highlanders, especially from Inverness-shire, after the Highland Clearances. Canadian Gaelic / Scottish Gaelic had been spoken in Glengarry County since its first settlement in 1784.\nSome of the main partners of the North West Company, including Hugh McGillis, lived in this area.\nAlexander McMartin, the first person born in Upper Canada to serve in the Legislative Assembly, was from Martintown.\nThe Glengarry Celtic Music Hall of Fame is located in Williamstown. The Nor'Westers and Loyalist Museum is also located in Williamstown.\nWilliamstown is also home to Ontario's oldest continuing agricultural fair, which celebrated its bicentennial in 2012.\nSouth Glengarry is the location of four National Historic Sites of Canada: the Bethune-Thompson House, the Glengarry Cairn, the Sir John Johnson House, and the ruins of St. Raphael's Roman Catholic Church.\nSt. Raphael's Catholic Church was completed in 1821 under the authority of Alexander Macdonell later Bishop of Regiopolis (now Kingston, Ontario). This is one of the oldest churches in what was then the colony of Upper Canada. In late 1970, the church interiors, roof and tower were destroyed by fire, but the ruins were preserved. In 1973, a smaller church with the same name was built, attached to the ruins.\nThe township was established on January 1, 1998, with the amalgamation of the former Townships of Charlottenburgh and Lancaster, along with the Village of Lancaster.\nDemographics.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, South Glengarry had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nCulture.\nCanadian author Hugh Hood mentions Williamstown in his short story \"Getting to Williamstown,\" first published in 1928.\nSport.\nThe Char-Lan Rebels of the CCHL2 League play out of the Char-Lan Recreation Centre in Williamstown. The Char-Lan Skating Club is based out of the Char-Lan Recreation Centre."}
{"id": "731401", "revid": "44386800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731401", "title": "Ideal solution", "text": "An ideal solution or ideal mixture is a solution that exhibits thermodynamic properties analogous to those of a mixture of ideal gases. The enthalpy of mixing is zero, as is the volume change on mixing. The vapor pressures of all components obey Raoult's law across the entire range of concentrations, and the activity coefficient (which measures deviation from ideality) is equal to one for each component.\nThe concept of an ideal solution is fundamental to both thermodynamics and chemical thermodynamics and their applications, such as the explanation of colligative properties.\nPhysical origin.\nIdeality of solutions is analogous to ideality for gases, with the important difference that intermolecular interactions in liquids are strong and cannot simply be neglected as they can for ideal gases. Instead we assume that the mean strength of the interactions are the same between all the molecules of the solution.\nMore formally, for a mix of molecules of A and B, then the interactions between unlike neighbors (\"U\"AB) and like neighbors \"U\"AA and \"U\"BB must be of the same average strength, i.e., 2 \"U\"AB = \"U\"AA + UBB and the longer-range interactions must be nil (or at least indistinguishable). If the molecular forces are the same between AA, AB and BB, i.e., \"U\"AB = \"U\"AA = \"U\"BB, then the solution is automatically ideal.\nIf the molecules are almost identical chemically, e.g., 1-butanol and 2-butanol, then the solution will be almost ideal. Since the interaction energies between A and B are almost equal, it follows that there is only a very small overall energy (enthalpy) change when the substances are mixed. The more dissimilar the nature of A and B, the more strongly the solution is expected to deviate from ideality.\nFormal definition.\nDifferent related definitions of an ideal solution have been proposed. The simplest definition is that an ideal solution is a solution for which each component obeys Raoult's law formula_1 for all compositions. Here formula_2 is the vapor pressure of component formula_3 above the solution, formula_4 is its mole fraction and formula_5 is the vapor pressure of the pure substance formula_3 at the same temperature.\nThis definition depends on vapor pressure, which is a directly measurable property, at least for volatile components. The thermodynamic properties may then be obtained from the chemical potential \u03bc (which is the partial molar Gibbs energy \"g\") of each component. If the vapor is an ideal gas,\nThe reference pressure formula_8 may be taken as formula_9 = 1 bar, or as the pressure of the mix, whichever is simpler.\nOn substituting the value of formula_2 from Raoult's law, \nThis equation for the chemical potential can be used as an alternate definition for an ideal solution.\nHowever, the vapor above the solution may not actually behave as a mixture of ideal gases. Some authors therefore define an ideal solution as one for which each component obeys the fugacity analogue of Raoult's law formula_12. Here formula_13 is the fugacity of component formula_3 in solution and formula_15 is the fugacity of formula_3 as a pure substance. Since the fugacity is defined by the equation \nthis definition leads to ideal values of the chemical potential and other thermodynamic properties even when the component vapors above the solution are not ideal gases. An equivalent statement uses thermodynamic activity instead of fugacity.\nThermodynamic properties.\nVolume.\nIf we differentiate this last equation with respect to formula_18 at formula_19 constant we get:\nSince we know from the Gibbs potential equation that:\nwith the molar volume formula_22, these last two equations put together give:\nSince all this, done as a pure substance, is valid in an ideal mix just adding the subscript formula_3 to all the intensive variables and changing formula_22 to formula_26, with optional overbar, standing for partial molar volume:\nApplying the first equation of this section to this last equation we find:\nwhich means that the partial molar volumes in an ideal mix are independent of composition. Consequently, the total volume is the sum of the volumes of the components in their pure forms:\nEnthalpy and heat capacity.\nProceeding in a similar way but taking the derivative with respect to formula_19 we get a similar result for molar enthalpies:\nRemembering that formula_32 we get:\nwhich in turn means that formula_34 and that the enthalpy of the mix is equal to the sum of its component enthalpies.\nSince formula_35 and formula_36, similarly\nIt is also easily verifiable that \nEntropy of mixing.\nFinally since \nwe find that \nSince the Gibbs free energy per mole of the mixture formula_41 is\nformula_42\nthen\nAt last we can calculate the molar entropy of mixing since \nformula_44 and formula_45\nConsequences.\nSolvent\u2013solute interactions are the same as solute\u2013solute and solvent\u2013solvent interactions, on average. Consequently, the enthalpy of mixing (solution) is zero and the change in Gibbs free energy on mixing is determined solely by the entropy of mixing. Hence the molar Gibbs free energy of mixing is\nor for a two-component ideal solution \nwhere m denotes molar, i.e., change in Gibbs free energy per mole of solution, and formula_4 is the mole fraction of component formula_3. Note that this free energy of mixing is always negative (since each formula_52, each formula_53 or its limit for formula_54 must be negative (infinite)), i.e., \"ideal solutions are miscible at any composition\" and no phase separation will occur.\nThe equation above can be expressed in terms of chemical potentials of the individual components\nwhere formula_56 is the change in chemical potential of formula_3 on mixing. If the chemical potential of pure liquid formula_3 is denoted formula_59, then the chemical potential of formula_3 in an ideal solution is\nAny component formula_3 of an ideal solution obeys Raoult's Law over the entire composition range:\nwhere formula_64 is the equilibrium vapor pressure of pure component formula_3 and formula_66is the mole fraction of component formula_3 in solution.\nNon-ideality.\nDeviations from ideality can be described by the use of Margules functions or activity coefficients. A single Margules parameter may be sufficient to describe the properties of the solution if the deviations from ideality are modest; such solutions are termed \"regular\".\nIn contrast to ideal solutions, where volumes are strictly additive and mixing is always complete, the volume of a non-ideal solution is not, in general, the simple sum of the volumes of the component pure liquids and solubility is not guaranteed over the whole composition range. By measurement of densities, thermodynamic activity of components can be determined."}
{"id": "731404", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731404", "title": "Menilmontant", "text": ""}
{"id": "731408", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731408", "title": "Kinetic theory of matter", "text": ""}
{"id": "731413", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731413", "title": "Saint-Laurent (borough)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731418", "revid": "49492910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731418", "title": "Jules Wijdenbosch", "text": "Jules Albert Wijdenbosch (2 May 1941 \u2013 30 April 2025) was a Surinamese politician who was President of Suriname from 1996 to 2000 and prime minister from 1987 to 1988.\nLife and career.\nWijdenbosch was born in Paramaribo on 2 May 1941. He was a trade union and youth leader and worked in a port as a customs officer. He studied political science and public administration in the University of Amsterdam. In 1975 he published a booklet titled \"Schets Surinaamse Republiek Eigen Stijl\" (Sketch of the Surinamese Republic in its own style), in which he called for the formation of a government with many councils and extensive authority for the president.\nHe was a member of the National Democratic Party, which held absolute power in Suriname during the 1980s. From 13 February 1987 he was Prime Minister of Suriname and held concurrent positions as minister of Home Affairs, Justice and Foreign Affairs. He served as Prime Minister until 26 January 1988 before becoming Vice President from January 1991 until September 1991.\nFrom 1996 to 2000 he was president of Suriname. His cabinet was characterized by a large number of reshuffles. During his administration the bridge over the Suriname River was also built and was later named after him.\nWijdenbosch died in Paramaribo on 30 April 2025, at the age of 83."}
{"id": "731422", "revid": "7625588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731422", "title": "Permanent Vacation", "text": "Permanent Vacation may refer to:"}
{"id": "731424", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731424", "title": "La Salle, Quebec", "text": ""}
{"id": "731425", "revid": "3138265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731425", "title": "Summer Phoenix", "text": "Summer Phoenix (born Summer Joy Bottom, December 10, 1978) is an American actress and musician. She is the youngest sibling of actors River, Rain, Joaquin, and Liberty Phoenix.\nEarly life.\nPhoenix's mother, Arlyn Sharon (n\u00e9e Dunetz), was born in New York, to Jewish parents of Hungarian-Jewish and Russian-Jewish descent. Her father, John Lee Bottom, was from California and has English, German, and French ancestry.\nCareer.\nPhoenix was a child actor, working with agent Iris Burton along with her brothers and sister at the age of two, and went on to have guest roles in \"Murder, She Wrote\", \"Growing Pains\" (as a not-very-close friend of Ben Seaver), , and \"Airwolf\". She appeared in the TV movie \"Kate's Secret\" and in \"Russkies\", playing the younger sister of real-life brother Joaquin. Phoenix later appeared in \"Wasted\", \"The Laramie Project\", \"SLC Punk!\", \"Dinner Rush\", \"The Believer\", and \"The Faculty\". She played leads in \"Esther Kahn\" (2000) and \"Suzie Gold\" (2004).\nIn 2002, Phoenix starred in a three-month run of \"This is Our Youth\" at the Garrick Theatre alongside Matt Damon and Casey Affleck. \nShe was a member of the rock band The Causey Way with her sister Rain. She later made guest appearances on albums by Rain's band, the Papercranes.\nPersonal life.\nShe became engaged to Casey Affleck on December 25, 2003, and gave birth to a son in Amsterdam. Phoenix and Affleck married on June 3, 2006, in Savannah, Georgia and had a second son. In March 2016, Affleck and Phoenix publicly announced they were separating, though it has been acknowledged that they separated in November 2015. Phoenix filed a petition of divorce with the Superior Court of California in Los Angeles on August 1, 2017, citing \"irreconcilable differences,\" and it was finalized three days later.\nIn 2003, she and friends Odessa Whitmire and Ruby Canner opened the vintage clothing boutique Some Odd Rubies on Manhattan's Lower East Side. It closed in 2012.\nPhoenix is vegan."}
{"id": "731426", "revid": "3145267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731426", "title": "The Children of God", "text": ""}
{"id": "731428", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731428", "title": "Lord Hillhouse", "text": ""}
{"id": "731429", "revid": "44106950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731429", "title": "Mother Divine", "text": ""}
{"id": "731430", "revid": "55876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731430", "title": "Viscount Riccartoun", "text": ""}
{"id": "731431", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731431", "title": "Viscount of Riccartoun", "text": ""}
{"id": "731436", "revid": "14703151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731436", "title": "Clash cymbals", "text": "Clash cymbals (also called concert cymbals, orchestral cymbals, or crash cymbals) are cymbals played in matched pairs by holding one cymbal in each hand and striking the two together.\nTo differentiate this type of cymbal from a suspended cymbal, they are also called hand cymbals.\nTerminology.\nIn musical scores, clash cymbals are normally indicated as \"cymbals\" or sometimes simply \"C.C.\" If another type of cymbal, for example, a suspended cymbal, is required in an orchestral score, then for historical reasons this is often also indicated \"cymbals\". Some composers and arrangers use the plural \"cymbals\" or \"crash cymbals\" to indicate clash cymbals, with the singular \"cymbal\" to indicate a suspended cymbal.\nComposers will often condense the clash cymbals and a suspended cymbal into the same part. There are a number of techniques used to indicate which is desired. Whenever \"with stick\" or \"with mallet\" is written, a suspended cymbal is used. A return to clash cymbals can be specified with the Italian phrase \"a due\". Russian composers developed a notation to differentiate between clash and suspended cymbals in which a + (plus sign) is written over a note to be played on suspended cymbal and a \u00b0 (open circle) is written over a note to be played with clash cymbals.\nIn foreign language scores, such types of cymbals are known as or (in Italian), (in German), and (in French).\nTechnique.\nClassical music.\nIn an orchestral context, the cymbals are held by their straps with the thumb and index finger closest to the bell, not unlike holding a drumstick. The cymbals are held at a 45-degree angle with the dominant hand holding the cymbal over the other. To crash, there is a brief prep motion in which the arms move away from each other, before finally dropping the dominant handed cymbal on top of the bottom cymbal. Properly played crashes will be played like a flam where the bottom of the cymbals touch before meeting at the top. This is done to prevent any air pockets from occurring.\nThere are several ways to hold the cymbals after the crash. Some practitioners hold the cymbals up and vertically with the inside of the cymbal facing the audience. This actually shortens the sustain as the sound is transferred up rather than out and causes the hands to be in contact with the cymbal. Other practitioners hold the cymbals parallel to the floor. This allows for the most sound to reach the audience as the sound is transferred horizontally.\nMarching arts.\nIn a marching ensemble, such as a drum corps or marching band, cymbals will often be marched as part of the drumline. The technique of marching cymbals is vastly different from that of orchestral cymbals. Typically, marching cymbalist employ a technique known as \"Garfield grip\" (named after its use by the Garfield Cadets Drum and Bugle Corps) in which the hand is placed through the straps and twisted to let the palm rest on top of the bell. This technique allows for greater control over the instrument and for movements known as \"visuals\" \u2013 flashy maneuvers such as flips and twirls.\nThere has been a trend in recent years to replace the cymbal line with cymbals in the front ensemble, although cymbals still remain a vital instrument in indoor percussion ensembles.\nHi-hats.\nA drum kit normally contains one pair of clash cymbals mounted on a pedal-operated hi-hat stand. These are commonly far smaller and lighter than hand-operated clash cymbals, and are played with drum sticks as well as clashed together using the pedal. The hi-hat arose out of the need for vaudeville pit orchestras to combine the roles of a bass drummer, snare drummer, and cymbalist into one player, eventually forming the modern drum set.\nSizes.\nClash cymbals come in matched pairs. They are commonly found in three weights:\nInstruments of all weights range in size from 14\" to 22\" in diameter. The smallest and thickest tend to have the higher pitch, the thinner ones allow for greater expression, and the largest have the greatest volume.\nStraps.\nOrchestral clash cymbals have leather or nylon straps passed through the holes in their bells, leading to four tails which are knotted inside the bell, to allow the percussionist to hold them. Marching cymbal lines use leather pads placed on the bell to cushion the hands.\nChinese clash cymbals need no handles as the squared bells can be held quite securely without them and are often joined by a cord through the holes in their bells which allows the percussionist to release the bells after striking, producing less damping and greater sustain, and swing the cymbals producing doppler effects."}
{"id": "731443", "revid": "14423536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731443", "title": "Pan (biology)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731449", "revid": "37005538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731449", "title": "Earl of Ruglen", "text": "Earl of Ruglen was a title in the Peerage of Scotland. Along with the subsidiary titles Viscount of Riccartoun and Lord Hillhouse, it was created on 14 April 1697, for Lord John Douglas-Hamilton, fourth (third surviving) son of William Douglas-Hamilton, Duke of Hamilton, 1st Earl of Selkirk, and his wife Anne Hamilton, 3rd Duchess of Hamilton. The 1st Earl of Ruglen succeeded as 3rd Earl of Selkirk on the death of his elder brother in 1739. The Earl's only son William, Lord Daer, died in 1742, so on the death of the Earl of Selkirk and Ruglen in 1744, the Earldom of Selkirk passed to his great-nephew, while the Earldom of Ruglen passed to his daughter, Anne, who had married William Douglas, 2nd Earl of March. On her death in 1748, the Earldom of Ruglen passed to her only child William, 3rd Earl of March. He succeeded his first cousin once removed Charles Douglas as 5th Marquess and 4th Duke of Queensberry in 1778.\nThe 3rd Earl died in 1810, and the Earldom of Ruglen became extinct, while other titles passed to the late Earl's relatives. His second cousin twice removed (Francis Douglas, 8th Earl of Wemyss) succeeded to the Earldom of March, his fourth (and also third) cousin once removed (Sir Charles Douglas, 5th Bt) succeeded to the Marquessate of Queensberry, and his second cousin once removed (Henry Scott, 3rd Duke of Buccleuch) succeeded to the Dukedom of Queensberry."}
{"id": "731452", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731452", "title": "Sami al-Arian", "text": ""}
{"id": "731453", "revid": "18152109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731453", "title": "The Floridians", "text": ""}
{"id": "731454", "revid": "21834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731454", "title": "Arnulfo Arias Madrid", "text": ""}
{"id": "731455", "revid": "422817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731455", "title": "Felix Grundy", "text": "Felix Grundy (September 11, 1777 \u2013 December 19, 1840) was an American attorney and politician who served as the 13th U.S. attorney general. He also had served several terms as a congressman and as a U.S. senator from Tennessee. He was known for his success as a criminal lawyer who attracted crowds when he served on the defense.\nBiography.\nEarly life.\nBorn in Berkeley County, Virginia (now Berkeley County, West Virginia), Grundy moved with his parents to Brownsville, Pennsylvania, and then Kentucky. He was educated at home and at the Bardstown Academy in Bardstown, Kentucky. He read law as an apprentice with an established firm, was admitted to the Kentucky bar in 1799. That year he started practice in Springfield, Kentucky.\nCareer.\nIn 1799, he was chosen to represent Washington County at the convention that drafted the second Kentucky Constitution. From 1800 to 1802, he represented Washington County in the Kentucky House of Representatives. He moved to Nelson County, and was elected to represent it in the Kentucky House for one term (1804\u20131806).\nOn December 10, 1806, he was commissioned an associate justice of the Kentucky Court of Appeals. Grundy was elevated to Chief Justice of the court on April 11, 1807.\nLater that year, he resigned and moved to Nashville, Tennessee, where he again took up the practice of law. Grundy was opposed to the rising Kentucky politician (and later founder of the Whig Party), Henry Clay, whose Bluegrass interests clashed with Grundy's. The former chief justice left Kentucky in part because of Clay's growing presence in the state. In addition, Nashville was growing rapidly as the chief city in the Middle District of Tennessee. While soon renowned as a criminal lawyer in Tennessee, Grundy maintained his political ambition.\nGrundy was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the 12th and 13th Congresses and served from March 4, 1811, until his resignation in July 1814.\nHe was elected and served as a member of the Tennessee House of Representatives from 1819 to 1825. In 1820 he was a commissioner to settle the boundary line (state line) between Tennessee and Kentucky.\nHe was elected as a Jacksonian in 1829 to the United States Senate to fill the vacancy in the term ending March 4, 1833, caused by the resignation of John H. Eaton to join the Cabinet of President Andrew Jackson. Reelected in 1832, Grundy served from October 19, 1829, to July 4, 1838, when he resigned to accept a Cabinet position. During his period in Congress, Grundy served as chairman of the Committee on Post Offices and Post Roads (21st through 24th Congresses), U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary (24th and 25th Congresses).\nGrundy was appointed as Attorney General of the United States by President Martin Van Buren in July 1838. He resigned the post in December 1839, having been elected as a Democrat to the United States Senate on November 19, 1839, to fill the vacancy in the term commencing March 4, 1839, caused by the resignation of Ephraim Foster.\nHe resolved the question of whether he was eligible to be elected as Senator while holding the office of Attorney General by resigning on December 14, 1839. He was reelected by the Tennessee legislature to the Senate the same day, serving from December 14, 1839, until his death in Nashville, a little over a year later. During this stint in the US Senate, Grundy served as chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Revolutionary Claims in the 26th Congress.\nDeath and honors.\nGrundy was buried at Nashville City Cemetery in Nashville, Tennessee. After his death, four American counties were named in his honor. The four counties are located in Illinois, Iowa, Missouri and Tennessee.\nBoth Grundy Center, Iowa, and its location of Grundy County, Iowa are also named in his honor. Grundy Center's annual festival, called \"Felix Grundy Days\", are held each July. This marks the start to the annual Grundy County Fair, located in Grundy Center.\nLegacy.\nGrundy was a mentor to future President James K. Polk. Polk purchased Grundy's home in Nashville called \"Grundy Place\" and changed the name to \"Polk Place\". He lived and died there after his presidency. It was demolished in 1901."}
{"id": "731458", "revid": "51338485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731458", "title": "Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh", "text": "The Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh is the public library system in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Its main branch is located in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh, and it has 19 branch locations throughout the city. Like hundreds of other Carnegie libraries, the construction of the main library, which opened in 1895, and several neighborhood branches, was funded by industrialist Andrew Carnegie. The Pittsburgh area houses the first branches in the United States.\nThe Pittsburgh Photographic Library is a photography repository held by the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh of over 50,000 prints and negatives relating to history of Pittsburgh.\nHistory.\nThe City of Pittsburgh was originally home to eight Carnegie libraries constructed at the turn of the twentieth century. In 1881, Andrew Carnegie offered a US$250,000 grant to the city for the construction of a public library on the condition that the city provided the land and annual funding for the maintenance of the property. The city declined Carnegie's initial offer out of concern that a publicly funded library was not a state-sanctioned use of public tax funds. With the passing of several years and the state legislature's endorsement of the project, however, the city reconsidered the offer and reached out to Carnegie in the interest of accepting his grant.\nIn 1890, the City of Pittsburgh accepted an expanded grant of $1 million for the building of the main library in Oakland and five branches in the neighborhoods of Lawrenceville, West End, Wylie Avenue (Hill District), Mount Washington, and Hazelwood. While the initial plan only called for those five branches, the city later received another three Carnegie libraries in the East Liberty, South Side, and Homewood neighborhoods. Construction on the main library was finished in 1895 while the branch libraries were constructed over the following fifteen years, ending with the completion of the Homewood branch in 1910.\nSix of the original Carnegie library branch locations continue to serve as public libraries in their respective neighborhoods: Lawrenceville, West End, Mount Washington, Hazelwood, South Side, and Homewood. The East Liberty branch was demolished in the 1960s as part of a redevelopment plan, and the Wylie Avenue branch was moved to a new location in 1982.\nIn January 2022, the 201 members of the United Library Workers (ULW), the union of library staff, which organized with United Steelworkers in 2019, ratified their first contract with the library's management. Environmental service workers and drivers had already been unionized with the Teamsters and SEIU.\nPartnership with suburban libraries.\nFor decades, CLP has partnered with suburban area libraries, and, in 2014, talks were started seeking innovative ways to combine some services.\nTheft case.\nIn 2018, the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" reported that nearly 320 rare books, maps, engravings, and other items had been stolen from the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh's main branch in Oakland, which houses the system's rare book collection. The items, including a 1787 document signed by Thomas Jefferson, were valued at more than $8 million. In July 2018, a former library archivist and a Pittsburgh-area bookseller were charged with the thefts, which took place over a period of two decades.\nIt was one of the largest rare-book theft cases in history. According to the criminal complaints detailing alleged scheme, the archivist said that he \"often removed items from the Oliver Room at the library's main branch in Oakland by carrying individual plates [and] maps in manila folders, or for books or larger items, by brazenly rolling them up and walking out.\" The archivist is alleged to have turned the rare items over to the bookseller, who would then sell them through his store."}
{"id": "731461", "revid": "18956658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731461", "title": "Stephen Harper (disambiguation)", "text": "Stephen Harper (born 1959) was the Prime Minister of Canada from 2006 to 2015.\nStephen Harper or Steven Harper may also refer to:"}
{"id": "731463", "revid": "62026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731463", "title": "Law of the sea", "text": "Law of the sea (or ocean law) is a body of international law governing the rights and duties of states in maritime environments. It concerns matters such as navigational rights, sea mineral claims, and coastal waters jurisdiction. The connotation of \"ocean law\" is somewhat broader, but the law of the sea (anchored in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)) is so comprehensive that it covers all areas of ocean law as well (e.g., marine environmental law, maritime law).\nWhile drawn from a number of international customs, treaties, and agreements, modern law of the sea derives largely from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. That convention is effective since 1994, and is generally accepted as a codification of customary international law of the sea, and is sometimes regarded as the \"constitution of the oceans\".\nLaw of the sea is the public law counterpart to admiralty law (also known as maritime law), which applies to private maritime issues, such as the carriage of goods by sea, rights of salvage, ship collisions, and marine insurance.\nHistory.\nAmong the earliest examples of legal codes concerning maritime affairs is the Byzantine \"Lex Rhodia,\" promulgated between 600 and 800 C.E. to govern trade and navigation in the Mediterranean. Maritime law codes were also created during the European Middle Ages, such as the Rolls of Ol\u00e9ron, which drew from \"Lex Rhodia\", and the Laws of Wisby, enacted among the mercantile city-states of the Hanseatic League.\nHowever, the earliest known formulation of \"public\" international law of the sea was in 17th century Europe, which saw unprecedented navigation, exploration, and trade across the world's oceans. Portugal and Spain led this trend, staking claims over both the land and sea routes they discovered. Spain considered the Pacific Ocean a \"mare clausum\u2014\"literally a \"closed sea\" off limits to other naval powers\u2014in part to protect its possessions in Asia. Similarly, as the only known entrance from the Atlantic, the Strait of Magellan was periodically patrolled by Spanish fleets to prevent entrance by foreign vessels. The papal bull \"Romanus Pontifex\" (1455) recognized Portugal's exclusive right to navigation, trade, and fishing in the seas near discovered land, and on this basis the Portuguese claimed a monopoly on East Indian trade, prompting opposition and conflict from other European naval powers.\nAmid growing competition over sea trade, Dutch jurist and philosopher Hugo Grotius\u2014considered the father of international law generally\u2014wrote \"Mare Liberum\" (\"The Freedom of the Seas\"), published in 1609, which set forth the principle that the sea was international territory and that all nations were thus free to use it for trade. He premised this argument on the idea that \"every nation is free to travel to every other nation, and to trade with it.\" Thus, there was a right to innocent passage over land and a similar right of innocent passage at sea. Grotius observed that unlike land, on which sovereigns could demarcate their jurisdiction, the sea was akin to air, a common property of all:\nWriting in response to Grotius, the English jurist John Selden argued in \"Mare Clausum\" that the sea was as capable of appropriation by sovereign powers as terrestrial territory. Rejecting Grotius' premise, Selden claimed there was no historical basis for the sea to be treated differently than land, nor was there anything inherent in the nature of the sea that precluded states from exercising dominion over parts of it. In essence, international law could evolve to accommodate the emerging framework of national jurisdiction over the sea.\nAs a growing number of nations began to expand their naval presence across the world, conflicting claims over the open sea mounted. This prompted maritime states to moderate their stance and to limit the extent of their jurisdiction towards the sea from land. This was aided by the compromise position presented by Dutch legal theorist Cornelius Bynkershoek, who in \"De dominio maris\" (1702), established the principle that maritime dominion was limited to the distance within which cannons could effectively protect it.\nGrotius' concept of \"freedom of the seas\" became virtually universal until the mid-20th century, following the global dominance of European naval powers. National rights and jurisdiction over the seas were limited to a specified belt of water extending from a nation's coastlines, usually three nautical miles (5.6\u00a0km), according to Bynkershoek's \"cannon shot\" rule. Under the \"mare liberum\" principle, all waters beyond national boundaries were considered international waters: Free to all nations, but belonging to none of them.\nIn the early 20th century, some nations expressed their desire to extend national maritime claims, namely to exploit mineral resources, protect fish stocks, and enforce pollution controls. To that end, in 1930, the League of Nations called conference at The Hague, but no agreements resulted. By the mid 20th century, technological improvements in fishing and oil exploration expanded the nautical range in which countries could detect and exploit natural resources. This prompted United States President Harry S. Truman in 1945 to extend American jurisdiction to all the natural resources of its continental shelf, well beyond the territorial waters of the country. Truman's proclamation cited the customary international law principle of a nation's right to protect its natural resources. Other nations quickly followed suit: Between 1946 and 1950, Chile, Peru, and Ecuador extended their rights to a distance of 200 nautical miles (370\u00a0km) to cover their Humboldt Current fishing grounds.\nUN Convention of the Law of the Sea.\nThe first attempt to promulgate and codify a comprehensive law of the sea was in the 1950s, shortly after the Truman proclamation on the continental shelf. In 1956, the United Nations held its first Conference on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS I) in Geneva, Switzerland, which resulted in four treaties concluded in 1958:\nThe Convention on the Continental Shelf effectively codified Truman's proclamation as customary international law. While UNCLOS I was widely considered a success, it left open the important issue of the extent of territorial waters. In 1960, the UN held a second Conference on the Law of the Sea (\"UNCLOS II\"), but this did not result in any new agreements. The pressing issue of varying claims of territorial waters was raised at the UN in 1967 by Malta, prompting in 1973 a third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea in New York City. In an attempt to reduce the possibility of groups of nation-states dominating the negotiations, the conference used a consensus process rather than majority vote. With more than 160 nations participating, the conference lasted until 1982, resulting in the UN Convention of the Law of the Sea, also known as the Law of the Sea Treaty, which defines the rights and responsibilities of nations in their use of the world's oceans.\nUNCLOS introduced a number of provisions, of which the most significant concerned navigation, archipelagic status and transit regimes, exclusive economic zones (EEZs), continental shelf jurisdiction, deep seabed mining, the exploitation regime, protection of the marine environment, scientific research, and settlement of disputes. It also set the limit of various areas, measured from a carefully defined sea baseline.\nThe convention also codified freedom of the sea, explicitly providing that the oceans are open to all states, with no state being able to subject any part to its sovereignty. Consequently, state parties cannot unilaterally extend their sovereignty beyond their EEZ, the 200 nautical miles in which that state has exclusive rights to fisheries, minerals, and sea-floor deposits. \"Innocent passage\" is permitted through both territorial waters and the EEZ, even by military vessels, provided they do no harm to the country or break any of its laws.\nThe convention came into force on 16 November 1994, one year after it was ratified by the 60th state, Guyana; the four treaties concluded in the first UN Conference in 1956 were consequently superseded. As of June 2019, UNCLOS has been ratified by 168 states. Many of the countries that have not ratified the treaty, such as the U.S., nonetheless recognize its provisions as reflective of international customary law. Thus, it remains the most widely recognized and followed source of international law with respect to the sea.\nBetween 2018 and 2020, there is a conference on a possible change to the law of the sea regarding conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction (General Assembly resolution 72/249).\nRecognition and enforcement of law of the sea.\nAlthough UNCLOS was created under the auspices of the UN, the organization has no direct operational role in its implementation. However, a specialized agency of the UN, the International Maritime Organization, plays a role in monitoring and enforcing certain provisions of the convention, along with the intergovernmental International Seabed Authority (ISA), which was established by the convention to organize, regulate and control all mineral-related activities in the international seabed area beyond territorial limits. UNCLOS established the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS), based in Hamburg, Germany, to adjudicate all disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the convention (subject to the provisions of Article 297 and to the declarations made in accordance with article 298 of the convention). Its 21 judges are drawn from a wide variety of nations. Because the EEZ is so extensive, many ITLOS cases concern competing claims over the ocean boundaries between states As of 2017, ITLOS had settled 25 cases.\nOther types of intergovernental organizations enforcing the law of the sea include UN FAO regional fishery bodies and arrangements, as well as UNEP regional seas conventions and action plans.\nMaritime law.\nLaw of the sea should be distinguished from maritime law, which concerns maritime issues and disputes among private parties, such as individuals, international organizations, or corporations. However, the International Maritime Organisation, a UN agency that plays a major role in implementing law of the sea, also helps to develop, codify, and regulate certain rules and standards of maritime law."}
{"id": "731465", "revid": "33118295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731465", "title": "Kij Johnson", "text": "Kij Johnson (; born Katherine Irenae Johnson January 20, 1960 in Harlan, Iowa) is an American writer of fantasy. She is a faculty member at the University of Kansas.\nLife and career.\nKij Johnson was born in Harlan, Iowa. She received her BA from St. Olaf College in 1982, studied creative writing and literature at the University of Minnesota and at University of Kansas, and at Goddard College, then earned an MFA in creative writing from North Carolina State University in 2012. She joined the University of Kansas English Department as assistant professor of fiction writing in fall 2012, where she is associate director of The Center for the Study of Science Fiction. In 2017, she was promoted to associate professor.\nJohnson has worked extensively in publishing: managing editor for Tor Books and TSR (later Wizards of the Coast), collections editor for Dark Horse Comics, and content manager working on the Microsoft Reader. In her time at Wizards of the Coast, she was also continuity manager for \"\" and creative director for \"AD&amp;D\" settings Greyhawk and Forgotten Realms. Johnson served as a final judge for the Theodore Sturgeon Memorial Award from 1997 to 2021.\nJohnson is the author of three novels, a novella, and more than 50 short works of fiction. She is the winner of the 1994 Theodore Sturgeon Award for \"Fox Magic\", the 2001 Crawford Award from the International Association for the Fantastic in the Arts for best new fantasist, the 2008 World Fantasy Award for \"26 Monkeys, Also the Abyss\", the 2009 Nebula Award for \"Spar\", the 2010 Nebula (tied) for \"Ponies\", and the 2012 Nebula Award and Hugo Award for best novella for \"The Man Who Bridged the Mist\". \nIn January 2013, Johnson gave the inaugural Tolkien Lecture at Pembroke College, Oxford, speaking on the topic of fantasy literature.\nSelected awards and nominations.\nsource:"}
{"id": "731466", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731466", "title": "Kij johnson", "text": ""}
{"id": "731467", "revid": "4899266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731467", "title": "The Fat Friar", "text": ""}
{"id": "731479", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731479", "title": "Portraits in Hogwarts", "text": ""}
{"id": "731482", "revid": "39405234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731482", "title": "The Fat Lady", "text": ""}
{"id": "731496", "revid": "26551771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731496", "title": "Smriti Irani", "text": "Smriti Zubin Irani ( Malhotra; ; born 23 March 1976) is an Indian politician, actress, fashion model, and television producer. She received widespread acclaim for her role of Tulsi Virani in the soap opera \"Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi\" by Ekta Kapoor, which became the most watched show at its time and won her numerous accolades. An eminent member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Irani has held various significant roles within the Indian Union Cabinet. Before entering politics, Irani had a successful career in the entertainment industry. In 2025, after nearly 2 decades away from acting, Irani reprised her role of Tulsi Virani in Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi 2.\nHer paternal family includes Punjabi and Marathi heritage, while her maternal family has a Bengali heritage. Irani joined as a BJP karyakarta in 2003 and since then has completed more than 22 years in the BJP. With over three-generation family of party supporters, from her grandfather as a swayamsevak, and mother as a BJP booth activist, it highlights that her relationship with the party is familial.\nA prominent leader of Bharatiya Janata Party, she had been a member of the Indian parliament from 2011 to 2024, serving in the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat from 2011 to 2019 and from 2019 to 2024 as a member of the Lok Sabha from the Amethi constituency in Uttar Pradesh. She was also the National President of the BJP Mahila Morcha (the party's women's wing) from 2010 to 2013. Apart from this, Irani has been National Secretary (two terms), National-President Women's Wing and National Executive Member for five terms.\nIn the 2019 elections, she gained the Amethi constituency by defeating opposition leader Rahul Gandhi, then-president of the Indian National Congress, whose family members had represented the constituency for the previous four decades. She is the only non-Gandhi female politician to have completed five years in Amethi constituency. She subsequently lost the constituency to long time Indian National Congress worker Kishori Lal Sharma in the 2024 elections.\nEarly and personal life.\nShe was born as Smriti Malhotra, the daughter of a half-Punjabi, half-Marathi Hindu father, Ajay Kumar Malhotra, and a Bengali Hindu mother, Shibani n\u00e9e Bagchi. She is the eldest among three sisters. Her mother was a member of Jana Sangh and her grandfather was associated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh.\nShe was educated at the Holy Child Auxilium School, New Delhi, which is run by Catholic nuns. Later, she enrolled in School of Open Learning at University of Delhi. In 2019, she revealed that she had written her first year B.Com. exams from that institution, but had not completed the three-year degree course.\nIn 2001, she married a Parsi businessman, Zubin Irani. In October the same year, the couple had their first child, a son named Zohr. In September 2003, the couple had their second child, a daughter named Zoish. Irani is also a stepmother to Shanelle who is Zubin Irani's daughter from his previous marriage to Mona Irani, a coordinator and former beauty contestant.\nIn 2018, responding to queries about her faith, she stated that she is a practising Hindu married to a practising Zoroastrian, and that wearing sindoor is her belief as a Hindu.\nCareer.\nOften described as the journey of a middle-class woman from \u2018bahu\u2019 of Television world, her role as a television actress to becoming the Vice-President of the Bharatiya Janata Party's Maharashtra Youth Wing, Irani's career spans multiple fields, including her early work as a McDonald's employee, Miss India contestant, model, and television personality, before transitioning into a prominent political leader.\nIrani began her career with humble beginnings, working at India\u2019s first McDonald\u2019s outlet. She later participated in the Miss India pageant, where she was a top 10 finalist. Irani subsequently entered the television industry, gaining widespread recognition for her role as \u2018Tulsi\u2019 in the popular daily soap opera Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi, a character that became widely popular across Indian households and neighbouring countries.\nIrani started as a BJP karyakarta in 2003, during her television days. Irani has held and served numerous prominent positions, from being elected as Vice-President of the Maharashtra Youth Wing of BJP, Executive Member of the BJP's Central Committee, National Secretary of BJP, All India President of BJP Mahila Morcha, and elected to the Rajya Sabha as a member from Gujarat. She has served as the Minister of Human Resource Development, Minister of Textiles in the Government of India, and Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Information and Broadcasting. She was also elected to the 17th Lok Sabha and served as Union Cabinet Minister for both the Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Ministry of Minority Affairs.\nActing career.\nIrani was one of the participants of the beauty pageant Miss India 1998 but couldn't reach the top 9, along with Gauri Pradhan Tejwani. In 1998, Irani appeared in a song \"\"Boliyan\" of the album \"Saawan Mein Lag Gayi Aag\"\" with Mika Singh. In 2000, she made her acting d\u00e9but with TV series \"Aatish\" and \"Hum Hain Kal Aaj Aur Kal\", both of which aired on Star Plus. Apart from this, she acted in \"Kavita\" on DD metro. In 2000, Irani bagged the lead role of Tulsi Virani in Ekta Kapoor's production \"Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi\" on Star Plus for which she holds the record of winning five consecutive ITA Award for Best Actress Popular and four \"Indian Telly Awards.\" Kyunki.. was the most successful serial at that time, largely attributed to Irani's performance and chemistry with lead actors Amar Upadhyay and Ronit Roy. Irani had a fallout with the producer Ekta Kapoor and she left the show in June 2007 and was replaced by Gautami Kapoor. She made her comeback in May 2008 in a special episode, reconciling with Kapoor. In November 2008, Kyunki came to an end, leading to Irani's decline on TV. Irani's Tulsi avatar became a cultural phenomenon as she was seen as TV's highest paid actress at that time.\nIn 2002, she played the epic character Sita in Zee TV's Ramayan along with Nitish Bharadwaj In 2006, Irani co-produced the show \"Thodi Si Zameen Thoda Sa Aasmaan\" under her banner Ugraya Entertainment and co-produced by Balaji Telefilms. She also played the lead role of Uma in it. In 2007, she produced the TV serial \"Virrudh\" for Sony TV and also portrayed the lead character of Vasudha in it. She produced \"Mere Apne\" for 9X and portrayed the protagonist alongside Vinod Khanna. She acted in a supporting role in Zee TV's \"Teen Bahuraaniyaan\".\nIn 2008, Irani along with Sakshi Tanwar hosted the show \"Yeh Hai Jalwa\", a dance based reality show featuring celebrities along with their troops on 9X. In the same year she produced another show on Zee TV, \"Waaris\" which ended in 2009. In 2009, she appeared in a comedy show Maniben.com, aired on SAB TV. She also co-produced the show in collaboration with Contiloe Entertainment. In 2012, she worked in Bengali movie \"Amrita\".\nIn 2025, Irani returned to screen as her much loved character Tulsi Virani in \"Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi 2\" on StarPlus.\nThe Cultural and Global Impact of Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi.\nFrom the character \u2018Tulsi\u2019, Irani\u2019s name resonated almost with every household and people to could easily connect with the character and the storyline. It was the most popular character in the Television serial. The character \u2018Tulsi\u2019 was sensation as was the soap opera Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi. There have been many records created while this serial was telecasted. Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi was the first serial in the Television history of India to surpass 1000+ episodes to air. It maintained highest TRP (Target rating point) for consecutive 5 weeks in a row. The show was aired on Star Plus for 8 years and re-release had viewership of 77 million and is a world record in the entertainment industry. \nKyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi was an Indian drama aired on StarPlus and later in Afghanistan from 2002 to 2010. The show was dubbed into Dari and broadcast on TOLO (TV Channel). It became the most popular television show in Afghan history. It is credited with driving a significant increase in the sales of generator sets and causing absences from religious functions that coincided with its airtime. The show captured the public imagination in Afghanistan to such an extent that, in this deeply conservative Islamic society where family issues are often kept private, it became the dominant topic of discussion around family matters. There were even reports of wedding banquets being interrupted so that guests could gather around the television for a half-hour to watch the show. \nThe show had a profound and complex cultural impact in Afghanistan. The show significantly influenced attitudes towards women, family values, and entertainment practices. It had played a crucial role in bringing people together and promoting shared culture in Afghanistan. TV show influenced the perception of women's roles and rights in Afghanistan, especially among the younger generation. The family struggles, love, and relationships portrayed in the show have helped the audience remain connected to their culture. The show have promoted a sense of strong family bonds and cooperation. The strong and self-reliant female characters portrayed in these shows helped empower women and encouraged them to speak up for their rights. Afghans were able to relate to and connect with the traditional values portrayed in the serial.\nPolitical career.\nIrani joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2003. The following year, she was appointed vice-president of the Maharashtra Youth Wing in 2004. In the general elections held that year for the 14th Lok Sabha, she contested unsuccessfully against Kapil Sibal from the Chandni Chowk constituency in Delhi. That election witnessed a shock defeat for the incumbent Vajpayee government. In December 2004, Irani, blaming then Gujarat Chief Minister, Narendra Modi for BJP's electoral losses, threatened to fast unto death until he resigned. She retracted this demand after the BJP's central leadership threatened to take action against her.\nIrani was nominated as executive member of the central committee of the BJP. During the campaign for the 2009 parliamentary elections, while campaigning for Vijay Goel in the New Delhi constituency, Irani voiced her concern for women's safety in the city and advocated capital punishment for rapists as a deterrent. In early 2010, Irani was appointed National Secretary of BJP and on 24 June, she was appointed All India President of the BJP's women's wing, BJP Mahila Morcha. As National President of BJP Women's Wing, she successfully pursued Permanent Commission for Women in the Indian Army by facilitating legal aid to women officers who held temporary commission and were agitating for permanent commission.\nIn August 2011, Irani finally entered parliament. She was sworn in as a member of parliament from Gujarat to the Rajya Sabha.\nIrani contested the 2014 general elections against Rahul Gandhi in Amethi constituency of Uttar Pradesh. Irani lost to Gandhi by 1,07,923 votes, a 12.32% margin. On 26 May 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appointed her as the Minister of Human Resource Development in his cabinet. Her appointment was criticised by many people owing to her lack of formal higher education.\nIrani has been accused of misrepresenting her educational qualifications. Conflicting affidavits were allegedly submitted by her while filing for different elections. In June 2015, a lower court held that the allegations against Irani were maintainable and a delay in prosecution was not a valid reason for dismissal. Irani asked people to file a PIL about her educational qualification to know about the truth behind the affidavit controversy.\nIrani implemented various reforms in universities during her term as HRD minister. Irani made a speech in Parliament in which she discussed the 2016 JNU sedition controversy and the Suicide of Rohith Vemula. University of Hyderabad doctor Rajashree M contradicted some claims made by Irani regarding the circumstances of Rohith's death.\nShe announced to start new yoga departments in six new universities in June 2016.\nIn July 2016, in a cabinet reshuffle Irani was shuffled to the Ministry of Textiles from MHRD.\nIn July 2017, she was handed the additional charge of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (India) when former Minister Venkaiah Naidu resigned from the ministry to take part in vice-presidential elections.\nIn 2019, Irani became a member of parliament for Amethi constituency after winning the Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 general elections from Rahul Gandhi. In the 2024 elections Irani lost to Congress Loyalist Kishore Lal Sharma in Amethi by a margin of 1,67,196 votes.\nPolitical Timeline.\n\u2014 2024 : She lost parliamentary constituency Amethi. \n\u2014 2022 : Union Cabinet Minister, Ministry of Minority Affairs. \n\u2014 2019 : Elected to the 17th Lok Sabha. Union Cabinet Minister, Ministry of Women and Child Development. \n\u2014 2017 : Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Information and Broadcasting from 18 July 2017 to 14 May 2018. \n\u2014 2016 : Became Minister of Textiles in the Government of India. \n\u2014 2014 : Contested Loksabha Elections from Amethi against Rahul Gandhi. Became Minister of Human Resource Development. She also served as a Member of the Committee on Coal and Steel, Parliamentary Forum on Disaster Management, and Consultative Committee for the Ministry of Urban Development. \n\u2014 2012 : Appointed as a member of the Indian Parliamentary delegation to the 126th General Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) in Kampala, Uganda. \n\u2014 2011 : Elected to the Rajya Sabha as a member from Gujarat. \n\u2014 2010 : Appointed National Secretary of BJP. Became All India President of BJP's women's wing, BJP Mahila Morcha. \n\u2014 2004 : Became vice-president of the Maharashtra Youth Wing of BJP. Contested in Delhi Assembly Elections from Chandni Chowk constituency. Inducted into the Central Committee of BJP as executive member despite losing the election. \n\u2014 2003 : She joined the Bharatiya Janata Party's Maharashtra wing. \nComeback on Television.\nIn July 2025, Irani made her return to television after 17 years, reprising her iconic role as Tulsi Virani in the reboot of Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi 2. The new series premiered on Star Plus on 29 July 2025 at 10:30 pm and is also available on JioHotstar.\nWork undertaken as Union Minister.\nIrani was the youngest minister in the cabinet of Narendra Modi. She was also the first woman to hold office as the Union Minister for Human Resource Development and Union Minister of Textiles. She was also the youngest woman to be nominated to the Rajya Sabha. Some of her key achievements in various portfolios held by her have been listed below:\nAs Union Minister for Human Resource Development (May 2014\u2013July 2016).\nIn her term as the HRD minister, Irani undertook a number of decisions which helped in improving the quality, inclusivity and outcome of education in the country. Some of the key achievements have been listed as under:\nUnion Minister for Textiles (July 2016\u2013July 2021).\nIn July 2016, Irani was given charge of the Textiles Ministry, taking over from Santosh Kumar Gangwar. She held that portfolio for a full five years, until July 2021, having been re-appointed to the position after the parliamentary elections of 2019. Her contribution to the sector has been appreciated by various industry bodies like the textile council TEXPROCIL, the Clothing Manufacturers Association of India and the Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF). Her significant initiatives as Minister of Textiles include:\nUnion Minister for Women and Child Developments (May 2019\u2013June 2024).\nIn the second term of the Modi Government, Irani was appointed given the key portfolio Union Minister for Women and Child Development. Subsequently, in the cabinet re-shuffle of July 2021, Irani was again given the charge of the Ministry of Women and Child Development.\nOne of her first legislative initiatives as the Minister for WCD was the Amendment to the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2019, which aims to make punishment more stringent and even include death penalty for offenders involved in sexual crimes against minors. She undertook the initiative to define \"child pornography\" and reiterated a \"zero tolerance\" stance against the crime.\nBharatiya Poshan Krishi Kosh, As part of the Poshan Abhiyaan, Irani along with Bill Gates, through his foundation, announced the launch of India's first Poshan Atlas, Bhartiya Poshan Krishi Kosh(BPKK) in order to create a repository of diverse crops across 127 agro-climatic zones of the country.\nUnion Minister for Minority Affairs (July 2022 - June 2024).\nIn August 2023, Irani introduced \u2018Naya Savera\u2019 scheme (\u2018Free Coaching and Allied\u2019 scheme) to assist students belonging to the six minority communities namely Sikh, Jain, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist and Parsi by way of special coaching for qualifying examinations for admission in technical/professional courses and competitive examination for recruitment.\nIn January 2024, Irani became the only non-muslim on her historical visit to the holy site of Medina led by the Saudi-Arabian delegates, where she signed the Hajj agreement 2024, and brought home increased quota for Hajj trip for Muslims in India.\nMP from Amethi.\nIrani, in 2019 general elections, in Amethi constituency of Uttar Pradesh, won against Rahul Gandhi, President of the Indian National Congress, by a margin of 55,120 votes who previously seat held since 2004. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its leadership put in an all around effort over the past five years to ensure this win after her loss to Gandhi by 1,07,923 votes, a 12.32% margin in 2014 general elections. Irani made multiple visits to Amethi after her loss to launch central development schemes in the constituency, to underscore her message that she would provide better representation than the incumbent member. In the 2024 general elections however, Irani lost the Amethi seat to the Indian National Congress' candidate Kishori Lal Sharma by a margin of 167,196 votes.\nEvents.\nUndergraduate degree.\nIrani was accused of providing contradictory affidavits about her educational qualifications during different elections. In her affidavit for the 2004 Lok Sabha elections, she reportedly stated her educational qualification as B.A. from Delhi University. However, while filing affidavits in her nomination papers for Rajya Sabha from Gujarat in 2011 and Lok Sabha from Uttar Pradesh in 2014, she said her highest educational qualification was, B.com, Part 1 from School of Open Learning at University of Delhi.\nShe later claimed that she has done B.com, Part 1 from Delhi University (not completing the full course till Part 3) in the affidavit she filed for Rajya Sabha elections from Gujarat in 2017 which stated \"Bachelor of Commerce, Part 1. Three year degree course not completed\".\nA freelance writer Ahmer Khan filed a complaint in April 2015 that Irani had filed an affidavit in April 2004 for the Lok Sabha elections, stating that she had completed her Bachelor of Arts in 1996 from School of Correspondence (Delhi University) but in another affidavit of 16 April 2014, filed by her for the Lok Sabha polls, it was said that she was a Bachelor of Commerce Part-I from the School of Open Learning (Delhi University). The plea said that the facts and circumstances reveal commission of offences by Irani under section 125A (which deals with penalty of filing false affidavit and entails a jail term) of the Representation of People Act, 1951.\nThe court had on 20 November 2016 allowed the complainant's plea seeking direction to the officials of EC and DU to bring the records of Ms. Irani's qualifications after he said he was unable to place them before the court. During the hearings of the complaint, the court was told by a poll panel official that the documents filed by Ms. Irani regarding her educational qualification while filing nominations were not traceable. Also, in pursuance of the court's earlier direction, Delhi University had also submitted that the documents pertaining to Ms. Irani's BA course in 1996, as purportedly mentioned by her in an affidavit filed during 2004 Lok Sabha elections, were yet to be found.\nOn 18 October 2016, a Delhi court said that Irani will not be summoned for the fake degree case because the petition filed against Irani questioning her college degrees was an attempt to harass her. The court said that the complainant may not have filed it if she were not a central minister. Metropolitan Magistrate Harvinder Singh said that original evidence had already been lost due to the passage of years, secondary evidence wasn't enough for court. The Magistrate also said that the complainant made a \"delay of 11 years\" in filing the complaint against Irani. This verdict of the lower court was challenged in the Delhi High Court and the court asked all the records of the case to be handed over to it in order to examine case records before deciding to summon Irani or anyone else.\nOther work.\nIrani's debut novel is \"Lal Salaam\", published by Westland publishers in 2021. It is inspired by the April 2010 Maoist attack in Dantewada and the role of the central police forces in insurgencies.\nShe is the founder of the Alliance for Global Good \u2013 Gender Equity and Equality, a World Economic Forum initiative aligned with BIMSTEC and G20, focused on addressing social and economic disparities through gender-focused programs. As a Strategic Advisor to the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), she represents the interests of 80 million small traders in India. She also serves as an Advisory Board Member for the Women\u2019s Collective Forum, dedicated to promoting gender equality and advancing women\u2019s health, education, and entrepreneurship. Additionally, she is the Vice-President of The Loomba Foundation, which supports widows and their children globally, regardless of race, gender, or religion. She has also represented the Asia-Pacific Region at the 126th Inter-Parliamentary Union Assembly."}
{"id": "731499", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731499", "title": "Mississippi State Sovereignty Commission", "text": "The Mississippi State Sovereignty Commission (also called the MSSC or Sov-Com) was a state agency in Mississippi active from 1956 to 1973 and tasked with fighting integration and controlling civil rights activism. It was overseen by the Governor of Mississippi. The stated objective of the commission was to \"[...] protect the sovereignty of the state of Mississippi, and her sister states\" from \"encroachment thereon by the Federal Government\". It coordinated activities to portray the state and racial segregation in a more positive light. Serving governors and lieutenant governors of Mississippi were \"ex officio\" members of the commission. The Sovereignty Commission spied on and conspired against civil rights activists and organized pressure and economic retaliation against those who supported the civil rights movement in Mississippi.\nThe agency was given unusual authority to investigate citizens of the state, issue subpoenas and even exercise police powers, although it was not attached to any law enforcement agency. During its existence, the commission profiled more than 87,000 persons associated with, or suspected to be associated with, the civil rights movement (which it opposed). It investigated the work and credit histories and even personal relations of persons it investigated. It collaborated with local white officials of government, police, and business to pressure African Americans to give up activism, especially by economic pressures, such as causing them to be fired, evicted from rental housing, or to have their businesses boycotted.\nCreation.\nAfter James P. Coleman won Mississippi's gubernatorial election in 1955, he proposed to the Legal Educational Advisory Committee the creation of \"a permanent authority for maintenance of racial segregation with a full staff and funds for its operations to come out of tax money.\" After Coleman took office, the Mississippi House of Representatives proposed House Bill 880, which would create a State Sovereignty Commission. While most legislators and the local media were supportive of the bill, some representatives were skeptical of its power to give funds to private entities, fearing that the body would essentially become a partner of Citizens' Councils, civic groups organized to block desegregation. The House passed the bill over these legislators' objections, though the Mississippi State Senate added an amendment to the measure authorizing the Mississippi State Auditor to review the commission's expenditures. The amended bill was then passed by the House with 107 votes in support and 33 abstentions/absences. Coleman signed it into law on March 30, 1956.\nStructure.\nItself an agency in the executive branch of Mississippi's state government, the State Sovereignty Commission comprised three divisions: executive, public relations, and investigative. The commission was led by a board of twelve members, who determined policy and reviewed its work. It comprised some \"ex officio\" members: the governor, lieutenant governor, the Speaker of the Mississippi House of Representatives, and the state attorney general; three members of the House, two members of the Senate, and three others appointed by the governor who served during the governor's term. The governor sat as the chairman of the board and appointed the agency director with the board's approval. The lieutenant governor served as the board's vice-chairman. The commission maintained its offices in the Mississippi State Capitol and retained three secretaries as support staff.\nPublic relations was originally the main focus of the organization, and from 1956 until 1963 the commission retained a separate director of public relations. The mission crafted for the relations division tasked it with countering negative media attention and perceptions about race relations and segregation in Mississippi. Its investigative division never had more than three full-time investigators, but the commission would sometimes employ part-time investigators or contract work out to private entities. Their job was to \"obtain facts which will be of value in protecting the sovereignty of this State and preserving segregation in Mississippi.\" The Sovereignty Commission's first investigator was Leonard Hicks, who began his position in 1956. In 1958 Zack Van Landingham became an investigator, followed by R.C. \"Bob\" Thomas, State Representative Hugh Boren, Andy Hopkins, and Tom Scarbrough in 1960. Landingham was a former Federal Bureau of Investigation agent, and modeled the commission's filing system after the one used by the federal agency. Other principal investigators for the Sovereignty Commission were Virgil Downing, Leland Cole, Fulton Tutor, Edgar C. Fortenberry, and James \"Mack\" Mohead. Many had worked in law enforcement agencies. Their duties included special assignments from the commission director, but they also carried out routine analyses of racial incidents in the state. They frequently relied upon informants, who were sometimes compensated for their expenses or regularly as much as $500 a month.\nThe Mississippi State Sovereignty Commission served as an organizational template for creation of the Louisiana State Sovereignty Commission (1960\u20131970), and the Alabama State Sovereignty Commission (1963\u20131973).\nActivities.\nOverview.\nAs the state's public relations campaign failed to dampen rising civil rights activism, the commission put people to work as a \"de facto\" intelligence organization, trying to identify citizens who might be supporting civil rights initiatives, be allied with communists, or whose associations, activities, and travels did not seem to conform to segregationist norms. Swept up on lists of people under suspicion by such broad criteria were tens of thousands of African-American and white professionals, teachers, and government workers in agricultural and other agencies, churches, and community organizations. The \"commission penetrated most of the major civil rights organizations in Mississippi, even planting clerical workers in the offices of activist attorneys. It informed police about planned marches or boycotts and encouraged police harassment of African-Americans who cooperated with civil rights groups. Its agents obstructed voter registration by blacks and harassed African-Americans seeking to attend white schools.\"\nThe commission's activities included attempting to preserve the state's segregation and Jim Crow laws, opposing school integration, and ensuring portrayal of the state \"in a positive light.\" Among its first employees were a former FBI agent and a transfer from the state highway patrol. \"The agency outwardly extolled racial harmony, but it secretly paid investigators and spies to gather both information and misinformation.\" Staff of the commission worked closely with, and in some cases funded, the notorious White Citizens' Councils. From 1960 to 1964, the commission secretly funded the White Citizens Council, a private organization, with $190,000 of state funds.\nThe commission also used its intelligence-gathering capabilities to assist in the defense of Byron De La Beckwith, the murderer of Medgar Evers in 1963, during his second trial in 1964. Sov-Com investigator Andy Hopkins provided De La Beckwith's attorneys with information on the potential jurors, which the attorneys used during the selection process.\nIn 1964, the Sov-Com passed on information regarding civil rights workers James Chaney, Michael Schwerner, and Andrew Goodman, to the conspirators in their murders during Freedom Summer. Commission agent A.L. Hopkins met with Neshoba County law enforcement and suggested the disappearance of the three young men was a propaganda ploy.\nColeman administration.\nDuring Governor Coleman's tenure, the commission was primarily deployed as a public relations agency, seeking to control activities and events which were thought to suggest that Mississippi's race relations were poor or that its citizens broke the law. He also forbade the commission from giving funds to Citizens' Councils.\nBarnett administration.\nRoss Barnett served as governor of Mississippi from 1960 to 1964. During his tenure the commission enlarged its investigative operations, sending agents across the state to report on civil rights activities. It also surveyed literature and libraries and collected information on persons viewed to be expressing liberal ideas or violating traditional racial mores. During this time the commission also channeled money to Citizens' Councils.\nJohnson administration.\nPaul B. Johnson Jr. served as governor of Mississippi from 1964 to 1968. During his tenure, the agency director, Erle Johnston, owner of \"The Scott County Times\", expanded the public relations role. He tried to form closer ties with business while monitoring proclaimed subversive groups, such as the Congress of Racial Equality, founded by James Farmer. Johnson, for his part, largely ignored the commission during his first two years as governor and did not convene any meetings of its leadership. After a requirement was attached to a state appropriations bill in June 1966 that the commission formally convene before receiving any money, the agency's leadership met on August 8, formally adopting a policy declaring the commission as a \"watch dog over subversive individuals and organizations that advocate civil disobedience; as a public relations agency for the state; and as an advisor for local communities on problems resulting from federal laws or court orders.\" During Johnson's tenure the commission continued to monitor individuals and groups who challenged racial norms and provided advice to other government officials on ways to work around the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\nWilliams administration.\nJohn Bell Williams served as governor of Mississippi from 1968 to 1972. He paid more direct attention to the commission than his predecessor, regularly convening meetings of its members and typically attending them in person. Williams placed emphasis on the agency's investigative activities, appointing a former FBI agent, W. Webb Burke, as its director in September 1968 but neglecting to fill the public relations director role. In a 1971 internal report, Burke omitted any mention of public relations but summarized the commission's activities as \"conducting investigations into matters of interest to the public and which matters pertain to tax supported institutions.\" During this time the commission followed up on requests from local officials to investigate civil rights-related activities and examined drug use and disruptions on university campuses.\nDemise and legacy.\nClosure of the commission.\nIn the 1971 state elections, Bill Waller was elected governor and William F. Winter\u2014a former legislator who had opposed the commission's creation\u2014was elected lieutenant governor. At the time they took office, the commission was conducting little business. Both men demurred on making their allotted appointments to the commission and avoided attending its monthly meetings, sending representatives in their stead. After the legislature approved funding for the commission to continue in 1973, Waller vetoed the appropriation. Winter attended the commission's last meeting in June to acknowledge the suspension of funding, and the commission was effectively shut down on June 30. \nSix file cabinets containing the body's records were placed in the custody of the Mississippi Secretary of State and then stowed in the underground vault of the Vital Records Center in Flora. In January 1977 a bill was introduced in the Mississippi Legislature to abolish the commission and dispose of its assets. After intense debate over what to do about the agency's records, the legislature decided to have them sealed at the Mississippi Department of Archives and History until July 1, 2027. Governor Cliff Finch signed the bill into law on March 4, and that day the secretary of state's office handed the files over to the Department of Archives and History, comprising the filing cabinets, two cardboard boxes of financial records, a meeting minute book, and two loose manila folders. Several days later a package of other records kept in the governor's office was handed over to the archives. The department locked all the relevant records in its vault.\nRecords releases.\nThe year the commission's records were sealed, the Mississippi chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union filed a class-action lawsuit against the state, arguing that it should release the files, as they were compiled from illegal surveillance of citizens. In 1998, United States District Court Judge William H. Barbour Jr. ordered all commission records not involved in litigation to be unsealed, and the majority of records were made available by March 17. After subsequent court orders, the Department of Archives and History released more files on July 31, 2000 and January 18, 2001. In 2002, the department made all of the commission's records accessible on its website.\nOnce unsealed, the records revealed more than 87,000 names of citizens about whom the state had collected information, or classified as \"suspects\". Today, the records of the commission are available online for search. The records also revealed the state's complicity in the murders of Chaney, Goodman, and Schwerner at Philadelphia, Mississippi. Its investigator A. L. Hopkins gave information about the workers to the commission, including the car license number of a new civil rights worker. It passed the information to the Sheriff of Neshoba County, who was implicated in the murders.\nIn popular culture.\nDawn Porter directed the 2014 film \"Spies of Mississippi\" about the Commission."}
{"id": "731500", "revid": "20318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731500", "title": "Exploits River", "text": "&lt;mapframe\ntext=\"Mouth of the Exploits River\"\nwidth=250 \nheight=250 \nzoom=8\nlatitude=49.081111\nlongitude=-55.3275/&gt;\nThe Exploits River (Mi'kmaq: Sple'tk; Tenenigeg) is a river in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. It flows through the Exploits Valley in the central part of Newfoundland.\nIncluding the Lloyds River, which discharges in Beothuk Lake, the Exploits river has a length of 246\u00a0km, making it the longest river on the island draining an area of 1,100\u00a0km2 and is the second longest in the province after the Churchill River.\nThe river drains Beothuk Lake at its source and discharges into the Bay of Exploits near the port town of Botwood.\nThe Exploits River provides habitat for spawning Atlantic Salmon and other species of fish. The salmon population increased dramatically when fish ladders were installed, opening up sections of the river that had been previously inaccessible."}
{"id": "731501", "revid": "1662342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731501", "title": "Deep Cover (1992 film)", "text": "Deep Cover is a 1992 American crime film starring Laurence Fishburne as a cop who goes undercover to bring down a Los Angeles drug cartel. It was directed by Bill Duke based on a screenplay by Henry Bean and Michael Tolkin. Jeff Goldblum and Charles Martin Smith also feature.\n\"Deep Cover\" was released in the United States on April 15, 1992, by New Line Cinema. The film received positive reviews, being likened by some critics to a modern film noir. It is also notable for its theme song of the same title, composed by Dr. Dre and released as his debut solo single, which also features then-newcomer Snoop Doggy Dogg making his studio debut.\nPlot.\nIn 1972, Russell Stevens Jr. witnesses his drug-addicted, alcoholic father getting shot and killed while robbing a liquor store. Traumatized by his father's death, Stevens swears that he will never end up like him.\nNineteen years later, Stevens is a Cincinnati police officer. He is recruited by DEA Special Agent Gerald Carver to go undercover in Los Angeles, claiming that his criminal-like character traits will serve him better in this capacity than they would as a uniformed cop. Stevens poses as drug dealer \"John Hull\" in order to infiltrate and work his way up the network of the West Coast's largest drug importer, Anton Gallegos, and his uncle Hector Guzm\u00e1n, a South American politician. Stevens relocates to a cheap hotel and begins dealing cocaine.\nOne day, Stevens is arrested by the devoutly religious LAPD Narcotics Detective Taft and his corrupt partner, Hern\u00e1ndez, as he buys a kilogram in a set-up by Eddie Dudley, Gallegos' low-level street supplier. At his arraignment, Stevens discovers that he bought baby laxative instead of cocaine and his case is dismissed. His self-appointed attorney David Jason, who is also a drug trafficker in Gallegos' network, rewards Stevens' silence with more cocaine and introduces him to Felix Barbosa, the underboss to Gallegos. Felix kills Eddie when he finds out he's working with the LAPD and enlists Stevens as his replacement.\nStevens develops a romance with Betty McCutcheon, the manager of an art dealership which is a front to launder Jason's drug money. When one of Stevens' dealers is murdered by a rival dealer, he is informed by Jason that if he doesn't retaliate, other street dealers will view it as a sign of weakness and in turn murder him. Stevens follows the rival dealer to a nightclub, corners him in a bathroom and kills him. Jason then partners with Stevens in his new business: distribution of a synthetic chemical variant of cocaine.\nIt is revealed that Felix is a confidential informant working with Hern\u00e1ndez. After a falling out, Jason becomes more sadistic, and Stevens correctly deduces that Felix wants Jason killed to eliminate his competition. Felix immediately gives up Stevens, Jason and Betty to Hern\u00e1ndez, and wants Jason killed during the arrest. Carver knows about this but refuses to interfere, forcing Stevens to violate orders and stop the murder himself by exposing Felix, which results in a vengeful Jason killing him. The killing results in Betty reneging on the drug business, with Stevens' protection.\nGallegos comes to meet with Stevens and Jason, informing them that they have inherited Felix's debts to him. Later that day, Stevens meets with Carver to tell him about his meeting with Gallegos. Instead, Carver pulls a gun on Stevens and orders him to surrender his weapon and get in his car. Angrily, Stevens disarms Carver and forces him to admit that the State Department has decided to leave Gallegos alone because Guzm\u00e1n may someday be useful as a political asset to them; Carver has decided to play along in exchange for career advancement. Disillusioned, Stevens abandons his undercover status and vows to take down Gallegos and Guzm\u00e1n alone.\nStevens and Jason learn that Gallegos is going to kill them anyway, so they kill him first and steal a van storing over $100 million in cash. They then invite Guzm\u00e1n to a shipyard and offer to return 80% of Gallegos' money if he agrees to invest the remaining 20% in their synthetic cocaine operation. Taft, who has been tailing Stevens, interrupts the deal and has his gun taken by Guzm\u00e1n\u2019s men. Since he is unable to arrest Guzm\u00e1n because of his diplomatic immunity, Guzm\u00e1n leaves.\nTaft orders Stevens to surrender but is shot by Jason after attempting to brandish his backup weapon, forcing Stevens to reveal himself as a police officer as he tries to radio in for an ambulance to help Taft. Stevens tries to reason with Jason as the latter tries to convince him to just take the money and go rogue. Jason shoots Taft in the chest, killing him. Throwing all reason out of the window and seeing no other alternative, Stevens attempts to arrest Jason. When Jason shoots at him, a tearful Stevens returns fire and kills Jason in self-defense as the cops arrive.\nAfterward, Carver coerces Stevens into testifying in favor of him and the DEA in return for not charging Betty with money laundering. He produces a videotape of the incriminating conversation with Guzm\u00e1n at the shipyard during his testimony to the House Judiciary Subcommittee, ruining the State Department's intentions along with Guzm\u00e1n and Carver's careers. Later, he contemplates what to do with the $11 million of Gallegos' money he secretly kept.\nCast.\nDirector Bill Duke makes an uncredited appearance in a photograph on a cork board displaying Gallegos' chain of command.\nReception.\n\"Deep Cover\" was released on April 17, 1992 in 901 theaters, and grossed $3.4 million on its opening weekend. It went on to make $16.6 million in North America.\nThe majority of critics responded favorably towards \"Deep Cover\". Film critic Roger Ebert gave the film three-and-a-half stars out of four and praised the voice-over narration as \"poetic and colorful. That's part of the process elevating the story from the mundane to the mythic\". Janet Maslin, in her review for \"The New York Times\", praised the \"quietly commanding Larry Fishburne and the wry Jeff Goldblum, who make an interestingly offbeat team\". In his review for \"The Chicago Reader\", Jonathan Rosenbaum wrote, \"What emerges is a powerhouse thriller full of surprises, original touches, and rare political lucidity\". \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's Peter Travers wrote, \"Duke (\"A Rage in Harlem\") makes the perks of the drug lifestyle palpably seductive. But this time there's something new in the snortscrew-slay formula: a working conscience\".\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film a \"B\u2212\" rating and Owen Gleiberman wrote, \"The movie peels away every layer of hope, revealing a red-hot core of nihilistic despair. Fishburne, with his hair-trigger line readings and deadly reptilian gaze, conveys the controlled desperation of someone watching his own faith unravel. And Goldblum reveals a new dimension of comic rottishness\". In her review for \"The Independent\", Sheila Johnston wrote: \"The disappointment of \"Night and the City\" has left some critics lamenting that film noir is dead in the water, but \"Deep Cover\" displays many hallmarks of the genre, down to the diffuse paranoia (perhaps the entire operation is a high-level Washington cover-up). It was the most unexpected pleasure to arrive here in many a month\". In its 2021 retrospective, \"The A.V. Club\"s Ignatiy Vishnevetsky wrote \"As a depiction of crime, law enforcement, and drug dealing, the film is a cartoon; as an exploration of the Man's ulterior motives, it's trenchant and angry. Stylistic and attitudinal cues come by way of Miami Vice, anti-heroic Blaxploitation, and the politicized, independent-minded B-films of Samuel Fuller.\"\nHowever, not all critics liked the movie. In his review for \"The Washington Post\", Desson Howe wrote, \"With \"Boyz n the Hood\", Fishburne broke through to the big time. Here, his acting career takes a step backwards\". Despite this, of Jeff Goldblum he stated that \"Oddly enough, Goldblum's so wildly out of place in this misbegotten movie, he becomes its greatest asset\". Richard Harrington, also of \"The Washington Post\", gave a mixed review, saying: \"While Fishburne is generally riveting -- his facial disguise is basically hardness layered onto strength -- and Goldblum is intriguing -- his wannabe urges are quite curious -- the film itself is only occasionally visceral. On the one hand, it's refreshing and commendable that a major film casts a black actor not only as a detective (rather than as a criminal), but in the lead role.\"\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 87% from 31 reviews, with an average rating of 6.9/10. The site's critics consensus reads, \"\"Deep Cover\" rises above standard-issue crime thriller fare thanks to a smartly cynical script and powerhouse performances from its unorthodox but well-matched leads.\" Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average to critics' reviews, gave the film an average score of 67 out of 100 based on 25 critics, indicating \"generally favorable\" reviews.\nSoundtrack.\nThe film's soundtrack, \"Deep Cover\", was released by SOLAR Records and Epic Records on April 4, 1992. The album's title track introduced Snoop Doggy Dogg as a recording artist, who featured alongside Dr. Dre on the song. The album, containing a mix of hip-hop, reggae and R&amp;B tracks, peaked at No. 166 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and No. 9 on the Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums.\nHome media.\nDeep Cover made its home media debut via VHS on November 4, 1992. The DVD debuted on September 14, 1999 in a barebones snapper case with Dolby Digital 5.1 and 2.0 tracks for audio. \nThe film was then released on Blu-ray Disc for the first time by the Criterion Collection on July 13, 2021, featuring a new 4K digitally restored transfer and lossless DTS HD MA 2.0 audio."}
{"id": "731504", "revid": "44263125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731504", "title": "Nick.com", "text": "Nick.com is a website owned and developed by Nickelodeon. The website currently serves as an online portal for Nickelodeon content, and offered online games, video streaming, radio streaming and individual websites for each show it broadcasts. It previously promoted the Nick mobile app which replaced it (websites for its sister networks were not affected). Nick.com has received positive critical reaction and various awards, including a Webby in 2003. It has also received positive reviews because of the steps taken by the website to protect user privacy. Visits to the domain outside the United States are redirected to YTV in Canada, Nick.de (the website's German version) in Germany or to Nick.com's global section due to programming licensing issues between territories.\nHistory.\nNickelodeon launched their first online component as part of the America Online Kids Only channel in October 1995. Within a few years, a regular World Wide Web site came online, and became a strong promotional tool for Nickelodeon. The website's popularity grew and in March 1999, Nick.com became the highest rated website for children aged six to fourteen years old. Nickelodeon used the website in conjunction with television programmes which increased traffic. Nick.com also maintained a high level of respect for user privacy during the growth of the website.\nBefore 2000, Nick.com's design was mainly images and image maps allowing navigation through the website. Then, in June 2000, the website was expanded and redesigned with Flash-animated buttons and advertisements. Nick.com's design has changed repeatedly since then, with the website's later designs making use of sidebars, web banners, and Adobe Flash.\nIn January 2000, developers started discussing expansion of Nick.com to make it an even more desirable website for children to visit. Mike Skagerlind, the website's general manager at the time said \"But we felt strongly that it could be a lot more. We basically wanted it to be the main place that kids go to on the Web.\" On June 4, 2000, the website was redesigned. The interface was revamped and to make it more appealing to children and the most significant development was the use of Flash for animated graphics and buttons.\nOn September 28, 2009, Nickelodeon revamped the site with the institution of the new logo.\nIn July 2014, Nickelodeon completely redesigned the site to match with the Nickelodeon app. It did not affect its sister channels' websites.\nIn order to comply more with COPPA, Nickelodeon removed the ability to create an account on March 31, 2016. The message boards were closed the same day. The Nicktoons website also shut down around this time, replacing it with a page asking visitors to go to Nick.com.\nIn December 2018, access via desktop computer to most sections of the site became limited, as links to watch episodes and play games on the site all redirected to a page asking viewers to download the network's mobile and tablet apps (both the network's app, along with separate game apps) for access to games and programming instead. Nick.com also discontinued making online games. This is likely due to Google Chrome's changes that made access to Adobe Flash (which the site was built on for years) difficult to non-existent in line with Flash's discontinuation during the end of 2020, requiring a large-scale rebuild of the desktop site that cannot be done behind the scenes. It is possible that access to programming and games for desktop visitors could be restored in some point in the near future, with all elements having full compatibility with HTML5 standards. Production and distribution for Nickelodeon online games continued internationally until 2021. The last known Nickelodeon web game made before the redesign was \"The Great Nickelodeon Escape\".\nOn December 17, 2020, the ability to watch full episodes on Nick.com was restored for pay TV subscribers in the United States, where one must sign in to their TV provider to watch.\nOn August 31, 2022, Nickelodeon restored access to online games on Nick.com after nearly four years, replacing all advertisements for mobile apps on the games section of the website. There were ten games available on Nick.com when access to online games was restored, including \"Nickelodeon Lanes\", a bowling game made in 2021, but was never officially released in America until this change to the website.\nThe website was remodeled in 2023 with updated looks with the new 2023 logo change.\nOn July 29, 2024, Nickjr.com was closed in order for a remodel of the main Nick.com website, with Nick Jr. becoming a section on Nick.com.\nOn February 12, 2025, the international websites (except the UK, German, Latin American, Brazilian, Arabian, Indian, Canadian and Italian websites) were closed in favor of the Global page on this website.\nFeatures.\nGames.\nIn 2001, Nickelodeon partnered with Networks Inc. to provide broadband video games for rent from Nick.com. The move was a further step in the multimedia direction that the developers wanted to take the website. Skagerlind indicated that over 50% of Nick.com's audience are using a high speed connection which allows them to expand the gaming options on the website.\nOn January 6, 2006, Nickelodeon launched \"New Game of the Week\", which was a service that showcased an Adobe Flash game based on Nickelodeon content. The first New Game of the Week was \"Jimmy Timmy Power Hour 2: Co-Pilot Chaos\", based on Jimmy Neutron from \"The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius\" and Timmy Turner from \"The Fairly OddParents\". When the service was launched, Nick.com had over 228 million game plays in the same fiscal quarter, which was partially attributed to \"New Game of the Week\". A new game was showcased every Friday. A year-end version of \"The New Game of the Week\" regularly featured their \"SpongeBob\" games, such as \"Bikini Bottom Bust Up\", \"Dunces and Dragons\", \"Invasion of the Lava King\", and more. Access to the online games was removed in December 2018, but was somewhat restored in August 2022.\nFollowing the closure of Nickjr.com for a Nick.com refresh, 25 games from Nick Jr.'s website were added onto Nickelodeon's website.\nVideos and episodes.\nNick.com provided streaming videos of full or partial Nickelodeon episodes. The service was originally launched as \"TurboNick\", a popup panel showcasing broadband content such as video clips and games. It was then revamped and relaunched on July 1, 2005, as a sister website for Nick.com. The new website expanded on clips and content on Nick.com to provide full length Nickelodeon television shows. The United States service was again revamped in 2009 and began focusing exclusively on content from Nickelodeon's current schedule. With the ubiquitousness of online streaming, \"TurboNick\" branding was also discontinued at this time.\nAlong with the website's redesign in July 2014, Nickelodeon introduced its first web-exclusive series, \"Welcome to the Wayne\". Citing changes in viewer preferences, the series served as the beginning of a push to create content that can exist on multiple platforms such as online, through mobile devices, as well as television. At the same time, amid declining ratings in its third season on television, Nickelodeon removed airings of the series \"The Legend of Korra\" on the primary Nickelodeon network and shifted its distribution to online outlets, where the show had proven to be much more successful. Moving the series to online distribution from outlets such as Nick.com and third-party outlets such as Amazon Video, Google Play, Xbox Video and Hulu reflected what series creator Michael DiMartino called a \"sea change\" in the industry: While \"Korra\" did not fit in well with Nickelodeon's other programming, the series did extremely well online, with the season 2 finale having been Nickelodeon's biggest online event. Following the remainder of its third season, season four of \"The Legend of Korra\" premiered in the United States on October 3, 2014, exclusively through online distribution. Along with the Nick App, access to full episodes requires a TV Everywhere log in.\nNick.com in the UK did not offer the same ability to watch entire episodes, but offered short clips from Nickelodeon shows instead. Episodes and videos are available on Nick.com in the US and the videos and episodes were also available on the Nick app before its closure in January 2024.\nRadio.\nNick.com streamed Nick Radio, a radio network launched on September 30, 2013, in partnership with iHeartMedia (then called Clear Channel Communications). The network was also distributed through the iHeartRadio web platform and mobile app as well as New York City radio station WHTZ as a secondary HD channel. Nick Radio focused on Top 40 music (aimed towards the network's target audience of children and adolescents, with radio edits of some songs incorporated due to inappropriate content), along with celebrity interview features. In addition to regular on-air DJs, Nick Radio also occasionally featured guest DJ stints by stars from Nickelodeon's original series. Nick Radio was quietly discontinued in July 2019.\nShows.\nNick.com maintains informational pages on Nickelodeon's current programming lineup. Although the content for each program page included games, videos, and episodes that could be accessed through other parts of the site, show pages can also included show photos and character breakdowns.\nFormer features.\nNicktropolis.\n\"Nicktropolis\" was a massively multiplayer online role-playing game provided by Nickelodeon on Nick.com. It was a virtual community that used isometric 3D graphics. It allowed users to play games, watch video clips and explore locations based on Nickelodeon television shows. Construction of \"Nicktropolis\" began in November 2004, by Nickelodeon's developers Mark Zadroga, Alex Westerman, Deborah Levine, Patrick Dorey, Sean McEvoy, and Jason Root. The game used the TheoSDK and TheoAvatarSDK engines. An alpha of the game was released in early 2006. The first beta was released in June 2006. From August 18, 2006, to January 6, 2007, the game was closed to the general public. Prior to this release, almost 3,000,000 children had tested the game. The service was finally launched to the public on January 30, 2007.\nFollowing the official launch of the service, additional improvements were made. In March 2007, the game was remodeled and given a new logo, and on May 11, 2007, the home page was remodeled to fit in with Nick.com's new look. On June 24, 2007, the game was featured in The New York Times, with a quote stating, \"Pre-teenage viewers have a virtual playground to call their own.\" In September 2007, the \"Nicktropolis Newsletter\" was launched, as an e-mail service to players, and in November 2007, the service became ad-supported. By July 3, 2008, \"Nicktropolis\" had over 7,000,000 registered users. That same year, the service introduced daily events on weekdays, the \"Nicktropolis Blog\" on the Nick.com message boards, and a new area to support \"The Big Green Help\", Nickelodeon's environmental campaign at the time.\nThe game received positive ratings in terms of appropriateness for children, with mixed critical reviews. The service was redesigned as \"The Club\" on May 19, 2010. \"The Club\" later closed in September 2014.\nNick Arcade.\nNick Arcade (sharing a name with, but otherwise unrelated to, the game show of the same name) was a series of games that could be downloaded from Nick.com. It allowed users to play any game before buying it. Nick Arcade games were also featured on Nickelodeon's sister website, Shockwave.\nMessage boards.\nNick.com offered a moderated Internet forum called the Message Boards. On the boards, kids posted threads and replied on topics based on Nickelodeon content. Emoticons were represented with icon GIFs. Notable Moderators were called NICKFrog and NICKPhilly.\nAlong with the redesigned Nick.com, the Message Boards were completely redesigned to match with it in 2014. The message boards were then closed on March 31, 2016, after Nick.com removed the option to sign up as a user on the site.\nReception.\nThe critical reaction for Nick.com has been generally positive, winning numerous awards.\nThe website has received two awards from the Broadcast Designers Association, getting a bronze award in 2001 and a silver in 2002. In 2003, Nick.com received a Judge's Choice Webby in the Television section. In 1999, Nick.com received the first Internet privacy seal from BBBOnline, a subsidiary of CBBB that assesses privacy issues online."}
{"id": "731509", "revid": "28903366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731509", "title": "Lars Ohly", "text": "Lars-Magnus Harald Christoffer Ohly (; born 13 January 1957) is a Swedish politician, and the former party chairman of the Swedish Left Party. He was a member of the Swedish parliament from 1998 to 2014.\nEarly life and career.\nLars-Magnus Harald Christoffer Ohly was born on 13 January 1957 in the Sp\u00e5nga suburb of Stockholm. His father, like all his forefathers for six generations, was a priest. He grew up in various places around Stockholm. After finishing his mandatory military service in the Swedish Army in 1977 and \"gymnasium\" (secondary) education in 1978, he started working at Statens J\u00e4rnv\u00e4gar (Swedish State Railways), where he later became a conductor (). He is still employed at SJ, but is on leave of absence since 1994.\nOhly became a member of the Liberal Youth of Sweden, the youth wing of the Liberal People's Party, in 1970, but left shortly afterwards, and became a communist. He joined the Communist Youth in 1978, and the Left Party in 1979. He became a member of board of the Communist Youth in 1980, was elected as a substitute of the party board in 1987, and became a full member of the party board in 1990. From 1994 to 2000, he was party secretary, and in 2004, he was elected party chairman. He has been a Member of Parliament since 1998.\nLars Ohly was in 2008 nominated for the award \"Kurd friend of the year\" (Swedish: \u00c5rets kurdv\u00e4n 2008). \"\u00c5rets kurdv\u00e4n\" is one of the awards presented annually by the Kurdish gala jury that celebrates the active and successful Kurds and friends of Kurds in Sweden.\nIn August 2011, Ohly announced his resignation. He was elected party chairman on 20 February 2004, succeeding Ulla Hoffmann.\nIn November 2017, Ohly was banned from attending Left Party events, including the party congress, after allegations of sexual harassment towards women. He left the party in January 2018.\nControversies.\nNacka Skoglund.\nDuring his first weeks as party chairman, Ohly claimed in an interview to once have, as a boy, played football against Swedish football legend Nacka Skoglund in a friendly match. The newspaper \"Dagens Nyheter\" later revealed that this claim was most likely fictitious. When confronted about this, Ohly claimed it to be an indeliberate error on his part.\nBeing a communist or not.\nLars Ohly used to be an outspoken communist. On 5 October 2005, \"Uppdrag granskning\" in Sveriges Television (the Swedish public service television) aired a programme about Lars Ohly's background and views on democracy. In the programme, Ohly was accused of trying to rewrite his own history and of hiding his past. Several quotes by Ohly were found where he defended the political systems of the Eastern bloc. Several prominent party members, among them former party leader Lars Werner, also witnessed about Ohly's views. It was also found that, in 2000, Ohly had reworded a letter of apology to the \"Kiruna-Swedes\" - victims of harassment from the Left Party after their return home from Soviet custody - with a number of critical references to Joseph Stalin being removed. The programme also showed that Ohly branded himself as a Leninist as late as 1999.\nFollowing this controversy, the leaders of all the other parliamentary parties have urged Ohly to drop his adherence to communism. On 30 October 2005, Ohly declared on Swedish TV that he would stop labeling himself a communist. But he stressed at the same time that he would stay faithful to the ideals of communism and always would keep fighting for a \"classless society\".\nSwedish-Cuban Association.\nDuring the controversy regarding Ohly's views on communism and his definition of socialism and socialist leadership, Ohly's membership in the Swedish-Cuban Association became known. The Swedish-Cuban Association supported the government of Fidel Castro in Cuba and does not want to label the country as a dictatorship. Ohly then released a statement that he considers Cuba to be a dictatorship and that he is critical of the lack of political freedom in Cuba, a statement which in response was criticized by the chairman of the Swedish-Cuban Association. In September 2005, Ohly declared that he had left the organisation.\nMiddle finger during a live debate.\nDuring a live debate on Swedish TV4 on 18 September 2006, the day after the Swedish general election, Ohly caused some controversy when he showed the middle finger to the right-wing commentator Marie S\u00f6derqvist for calling his leadership style typical of a communist. Ohly later apologized and said that he experienced a \"temporary blackout\".\nChoosing private welfare.\nOhly is strongly opposed to letting privately owned companies operate in industries traditionally controlled by the Swedish state, for instance education and healthcare. However, both his children go to private schools. Ohly says his children made their choices based on what was best for them, independent of his views on the matter. In 2010, he chose to have his meniscus surgery at the private hospital Sophiahemmet. A fan of leasehold estates over condominiums, Ohly himself made a considerable profit from a four-room condominium in the Stockholm City Centre which he bought in 2006 and sold in 2010.\nReacting to the fall of Communism.\nOhly is often cited to have said he cried tears of sadness when learning of the tearing down of the Berlin Wall. In September 2010, he claimed this a false quote political opponents and op-ed writers (primarily Peter Wolodarski, political editor at Dagens Nyheter) keep attributing to him. When reporter Janne Josefsson of Uppdrag Granskning confronted him with an interview clip from 2004 where the statement was uttered, Ohly refused to watch it. Instead, he claimed to have been happy about the events at the time, mentioning that his best friend had sent him a joyous message from Prague in 1989 when the city was being liberated. He initially claimed to have received an SMS message from his friend, which was impossible, since the world's first text message was sent in 1992. He later claimed that he actually spoke to his friend by phone."}
{"id": "731514", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731514", "title": "Loop electrical excision procedure", "text": "The loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) is one of the most commonly used approaches to treat high grade cervical dysplasia (CIN II/III, HGSIL) and early stage cervical cancer discovered on colposcopic examination. In the UK, it is known as large loop excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ). It is considered a type of conization. It has been in use since the 1970s, after its invention by Dr. Sheldon Weinstein.\nLEEP has many advantages including low cost and a high success rate. The procedure can be done in an office setting and usually only requires a local anesthetic, though sometimes IV sedation or a general anesthetic is used. Disadvantages include reports of decreased sexual satisfaction and potential for preterm labor, though a meta-analysis published in 2014 suggested that in patients with existing CIN lesions as opposed to controls, the risk is not more than their baseline risk. Approximately 500,000 LEEP procedures are performed in the U.S. annually.\nProcess.\nWhen performing a LEEP, the physician uses a wire loop through which an electric current is passed at variable power settings. Various shapes and sizes of loop can be used depending on the size and orientation of the lesion. The cervical transformation zone and lesion are excised to an adequate depth, which in most cases is at least 8\u00a0mm, and extending 4 to 5\u00a0mm beyond the lesion. A second pass with a more narrow loop can also be done to obtain an endocervical specimen for further histologic evaluation.\nThe LEEP technique results in some thermal artifact in all specimens obtained due to the use of electricity which simultaneously cuts and cauterizes the lesion, but this does not generally interfere with pathological interpretation provided depth is not exceeded. The thermal artifact can be a function of depth and time.\nComplications.\nComplications are less frequent in comparison to a cold-knife conization but can include infection and hemorrhage.\nLEEP effectively reduces the risk of cancer developing or spreading but it causes an increased risk of premature birth in future pregnancies. Following LEEP there is a 10% chance of cancer recurrence and 11% chance of preterm birth. This perspective carries significant implications when it comes to pregnancy timing and decision making in women of child bearing age who have cervical dysplasia and would like to decide whether they should have the lesions removed before or after pregnancy. As pregnancy is generally understood to be an immune suppressed state, the viral mediated character of cervical lesions might also inform revisions to treatment recommendations in such instances.\nSome women report a small decrease in sexual arousal and satisfaction following LEEP but there is a lack of high quality research showing how LEEP affects sexual function."}
{"id": "731516", "revid": "40929979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731516", "title": "LEEP", "text": "LEEP may refer to:"}
{"id": "731517", "revid": "54809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731517", "title": "Reserve Bank of Fiji Building", "text": ""}
{"id": "731519", "revid": "75312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731519", "title": "LLETZ", "text": ""}
{"id": "731530", "revid": "45417033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731530", "title": "Joseph Douc\u00e9", "text": "Joseph Douc\u00e9 (13 April 1945 \u2013 ) was born to a rural family in Sint-Truiden, Belgium. He was a psychologist and a (defrocked) Baptist pastor in Paris. He was openly gay and was among the founders of the International Lesbian and Gay Association. He served as a volunteer soldier in the NATO base at Limoges, France, where he had time to perfect his French. After one year of pastoral and humanistic studies at Stenonius College (also known as Europasemin\u00e4r, a Roman Catholic seminary today extinct) in Maastricht, the Netherlands, he began his conversion to Protestantism around 1966.\nHis \"Centre du Christ Lib\u00e9rateur\" was a ministry to sexual minorities. The centre had support groups for homosexuals, transsexuals, sadomasochists and pedophiles.\nDeath.\nDouc\u00e9 was killed and the murder has never been solved. According to Douc\u00e9's lover, he was taken away by two men, who showed police badges on 19 July 1990. The body was found in a forest in October 1990."}
{"id": "731539", "revid": "45476976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731539", "title": "Manuel Rojas Luzardo", "text": "Manuel Rojas Luzardo (c. 1831 \u2013 October 14, 1903) was a Puerto Rican-Venezuelan commander of the Puerto Rican Liberation Army and one of the main leaders of the Grito de Lares uprising against Spanish rule in Puerto Rico.\nEarly years.\nManuel Rojas Luzardo was born in the city of Obispos in the state of Barinas, Venezuela, from a Puerto Rican father and a Venezuelan mother. There he received his primary and secondary education. Rojas was a dedicated agricultural worker and when he had saved enough money he moved to Valencia, Spain where he became a successful businessmen. In the early 19th century Venezuela's economy was in turmoil because of internal wars. Rojas decided to go to Puerto Rico where he met and married Obdulia de los R\u00edos.\nThe Rojas family moved close to the town of Lares where they settled down. The region was mountainous and its main income came from the coffee crop. Rojas and his brother, Miguel eventually bought and cultivated a coffee plantation. The successful plantation was called \"El Triunfo\", and both men became wealthy merchants. His brother Miguel meet Mariana Bracetti while on a business trip to A\u00f1asco. Miguel and Mariana married and moved to \"El Triunfo\" where the Rojas lived.\nPuerto Rico's independence movement.\nRojas admired Puerto Rican independence advocate Ram\u00f3n Emeterio Betances and together with his brother Miguel, joined Betances in his quest for Puerto Rico's independence. A \"Revolution Committee of Puerto Rico\" was formed and directed by Betances and Segundo Ruiz Belvis, who were exiled, from the Dominican Republic. Several revolutionary cells were formed in the towns and cities in the western part of the island. They were to support the armed invasion that Betances had planned to bring from the Dominican Republic.\nTwo of the most important cells were that of Mayag\u00fcez, whose leader was Mathias Brugman and code named \"Capa Prieto\" and that of Lares, code named \"Centro Bravo\" and headed by Manuel Rojas. \"Centro Bravo\" was the main center of operations and was located in the Rojas plantation. Manuel Rojas was named \"Commander of the Liberation Army\" by Betances. Mariana Bracetti (wife of Miguel) was named \"Leader of the Lares Revolutionary Council\". Upon the request of Betances, Bracetti knitted the revolutionary Flag of Lares known as \"La Bandera de Lares\".\nThe Revolutionary Committee named twelve of their members generals of the revolution. They were:\nThe Spanish authorities found out about the plot and were able to confiscate the armed ship which Betances had, before it arrived in Puerto Rico. The Mayor of the town of Camuy, Manuel Gonz\u00e1lez (who also happened to be the leader of that town's revolutionary cell) was arrested and charged with treason. He was able to hear that the Spanish Army was aware of the independence plot. He then escaped and was able to warn Manuel Rojas.\nEl Grito de Lares.\nBecause of this event, the revolutionists decided to start the revolution as soon as possible and set the date for September 23, 1868. Mathias Brugman and his men joined up with Manuel Rojas's men and with about 800 men and women, marched and took the town of Lares in what is known as \"El Grito de Lares\". The revolutionists entered the town's church and placed the revolutionary flag knitted by Bracetti on the High Altar as a sign that the revolution had begun. They declared Puerto Rico to be the \"Republic of Puerto Rico\" and named Francisco Ram\u00edrez Medina President of the Republic of Puerto Rico.\nRojas and his poorly armed followers proceeded to march on to the town of San Sebasti\u00e1n, armed only with clubs and machetes. The Spanish Army had been forewarned and were waiting for them with superior firepower. When the revolutionists arrived, they were met with deadly fire.\nThe revolt failed and many of the revolutionists were killed and at least 475 including, Manuel Rojas and Mariana Bracetti were imprisoned in the jail of Arecibo and sentenced to death. Some of them fled and went into hiding. Mathias Brugman was hiding in a local farm when a farm hand by the name of Francisco Qui\u00f1ones, betrayed him and led the Spanish Authorities to Brugman's hiding place. He was executed on the spot.\nAftermath.\nHe was arrested that October and sentenced to death by a court-martial. Eugenio Mar\u00eda de Hostos led a group of Puerto Ricans who defended those who were involved in the revolt. They met with Spanish President Francisco Serrano (Serrano had just led a revolution against the monarchy in Spain) in Madrid and requested that Rojas and the others be pardoned and that the government not carry out the death penalties imposed upon them. Serrano told de Hostos that if an amnesty was granted it would be for the natives of Puerto Rico and not for the foreigners who participated in the revolt, referring to Rojas. However, de Hostos argued that Rojas was an adoptive son of Puerto Rico, since he arrived in the island at a young age and made it his home and as such should have the same rights that the others had. The incoming governor of Puerto Rico, Jose Sanz, received orders from the new Republican Spanish Government to grant a general amnesty to all those imprisoned, effective on September 20, 1869. Manuel Rojas along with some of the other men involved in the revolution were sent into exile.\nRojas was exiled to Venezuela and went to live in Bocon\u00f3 a city in the Venezuelan Andean state of Trujillo. Little is known about what he did after he went into exile except that he died on October 14, 1903, in Bocon\u00f3. On December 25, 2002, the Government of Puerto Rico approved Public Law #291, which instructed the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture to study the possibility of transferring the remains of Manuel Rojas, considered by many to be among Puerto Rico's greatest independence leaders.\nLegacy.\nA school in Bartolo, Lares, Puerto Rico is named after Rojas."}
{"id": "731540", "revid": "8373762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731540", "title": "Mazda MPV", "text": "The Mazda MPV (Multi-Purpose Passenger Vehicle) is a minivan manufactured by Mazda. Introduced in 1988 as a rear-wheel-drive model with optional selectable four-wheel drive, this was replaced in 1999 with a front-wheel-drive version with optional all-wheel-drive in some markets. Over one million MPV models have been produced since its introduction.\nFirst generation (LV; 1988).\nThe MPV was designed from the ground-up as a minivan specifically for the American market, and was introduced in 1988 for the 1989 model year. It was based on the large rear-wheel-drive Mazda Luce's platform. The platform allowed such options as a V6 engine, and optional four-wheel drive. However this large platform created some liabilities in other markets. When it was introduced in Japan in January 1990, its engine displacement and exterior dimensions exceeded Japanese government regulations for vehicles classified as \"compact\", and as a result, Japanese buyers were liable for additional annual taxes. It was available at Mazda's Japanese luxury dealership network \u0190\u0303fini starting in 1991.\nIts selectable 4WD system is not to be confused with all road conditions \"all-wheel-drive\" systems; the MPV can be switched into locked 4WD with a switch mounted on the column gear selector. A dash mounted switch controlled the center differential, creating a locked power distributions on the front and rear axles. The 4WD is not for use on dry roads, but can be engaged and disengaged while moving. Its efficient use of interior space while offering a relatively small exterior drew from Mazda's experience with space efficient one-box minivans, like the Mazda Bongo.\nUnlike other minivans, the MPV's parking brake was directly on the floor beside the driver's seat and operated by the hand, when most other minivans had the parking brake in the driver footwell area and operated by the left foot. Like the later Honda Odyssey introduced in North America in early 1995, it featured traditional hinged doors instead of sliding rear doors, though the original MPV only had a single rear door. This was also the only Mazda MPV generation sold in North America with a manual transmission, offered in the '89 through '91 model years. The middle row was available as a 3-person bench, allowing seating for eight, when most minivans only seated seven. Because of the MPV's optional 4WD, the Mazda Navajo version of the Ford Explorer (sold from 1990 to 1994) was only offered as a two-door, so as to minimize internal competition.\nThe van was named to \"Car and Driver\" magazine's Ten Best list for 1990 and 1991 and featured as one of their \"vehicles for the coming (fuel) crisis\". Initial sales were strong as well, but rapidly fell off once other makers introduced all-wheel drive and V6 engines. In the years to come, Toyota's 1991 Previa, Nissan's 1993 Quest, and Honda's 1995 Odyssey had entered the market and began diluting Mazda's market share. Sales weren't helped when the MPV received one star out of four in the Australian Australasian New Car Assessment Program (ANCAP) crash tests and a \"Marginal\" rating in the American Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) crash tests for damage to the occupant compartment, tire intrusion into the driver footwell area, poor dummy kinematics, and possibility of injuries to both legs.\nIn 1992 for the 1993 model year, a new Mazda emblem and a remote keyless entry system were introduced. A standard driver's airbag was later introduced in early 1993.\nThe van was facelifted in 1995 for the 1996 model year, adding driver's side rear door, passenger side airbag, and extending the nose for improved crash protection. While the four-cylinder engine was retired for the American and Canadian markets, it was replaced with a similar but somewhat smaller 2.5\u00a0L unit for the rest of the world. A mild refresh was introduced in 1997 for the 1998 model year with \"all-sport\" body cladding and wheel arches, and polished alloy wheels. Mazda discontinued the original MPV after the 1998 model year for North America, and after the 1999 model year for the rest of the world.\nSecond generation (LW; 1999).\nThe MPV was replaced in June 1999, using the short-wheelbase, front-wheel-drive G platform, with the optional 4WD system discontinued in most markets, or replaced with an all-conditions all-wheel-drive system in some markets. It now featured dual sliding rear doors equipped with roll-down windows and a third-row seat that could fold and tumble into a floor recess much like the Honda Odyssey. In the North American markets, the MPV was set apart from other minivans by its comparatively sporty chassis. The new G platform allowed for a longer car with more interior space than the rear-wheel drive predecessor.\nIn the Japanese domestic market, the second generation was a much stronger seller than its predecessor, with initial orders tripling the projected sales.\nAt introduction, the MPV used the same , DOHC 2.5-liter Ford Duratec V6 unit that powered the Ford Contour and Mercury Mystique and Cougar. DX models featured a two-place middle bench seat. The LX model featured two middle buckets with a feature whereby the passenger side seat could slide sideways (marketed as \"side by slide\"), power windows and locks, heated power mirrors, privacy glass, and antilock brakes. The ES model added leather seating surfaces, wood tone interior trim, side impact air bags on the front seats, bigger wheels, and dual zone front and rear air conditioners.\nIn model year 2001, all models added child-safety seat tether anchors. An optional GFX sport appearance package was made available for LX and ES models, which included fog lights and aero body add-ons. The 2001 model year ran long, extending into early 2002 in anticipation of the 2002 refresh.\nIn model year 2002, North American-market MPVs received Mazda's AJ 3.0\u00a0L V6 producing and of torque, a 5-speed automatic transmission, a new grille featuring a single chrome bar at the top, power sliding side doors (not available on the Australian market), revised suspension settings, and 17-inch alloy wheels. In the Japanese and other markets, the 2.0 and 2.5-liter four-cylinders were replaced by the new 2.3\u00a0L L3-VE direct injection (DISI) inline-four, as first seen in the all-new Mazda6. In Europe a , 2.0-liter \"MZR\" common-rail turbodiesel engine was also available.\nIn model year 2003, power operation of the side doors was made optional on the LX and ES. A base LX-SV model was added midway into the model year.\nIn model year 2004, the MPV received a mild exterior and interior makeover. The exterior featured new headlights and Altezza style clear taillights. Interior changes included a new steering wheel, gauge surrounds, and a spring assist to ease folding the third row seat into the floor. The LX Sport package added a customized look with alloy wheels, body side skirts, enhanced tail lights, anti-lock brakes, an air dam under the bumper, and an optional rear-mounted spoiler. The ES model added leather seats, rear air conditioner, power sliding doors, and a choice of moonroof or roof-mounted DVD player. No LX-SV model was offered.\nIn model year 2005, dual zone air conditioning became an optional feature on the LX (it had been standard on the LX in 2004).\nIn model year 2006, a base LX-SV model was again offered alongside the LX and ES models.\nThe MPV was discontinued in both Europe and North America after model year 2006. The MPV was also replaced in North America and Australia by the full-size Mazda CX-9 crossover SUV. Australian models were available with three seats in the second row, and two seats in the third row instead of a folding third row.\nEngines:\nThe Mazda MPV earned an \"Acceptable\" rating in the IIHS offset frontal crash test in 2000 for fair structural performance and very high forces on the dummy's right foot. In 2005, it earned a \"Poor\" rating in the side-impact crash test without the optional side airbags, indicating that high injuries to the driver and rear occupant are possible.\nThird generation (LY; 2006).\nIn February 2006, the third generation Mazda MPV went on sale in Japan, having debuted earlier in October 2005 at the Tokyo Motor Show. It was powered by either a four-cylinder MZR Direct Injection Spark Ignition (DISI) 2.3-litre naturally aspirated engine or the turbo version of the same. The second row reclining seats featured an unusual retracting footrest feature. The gear shift was moved from the steering column to the center console, much like most other minivans by Japanese automakers today. The launch of the third generation MPV was famously known for its television commercials narrated by a middle-aged woman saying the tagline, \"Sup\u014dtsuk\u0101 no hass\u014d de, miniban wo kaeru.\" (\u30b9\u30dd\u30fc\u30c4\u30ab\u30fc\u306e\u767a\u60f3\u3067\u3001\u30df\u30cb\u30d0\u30f3\u3092\u5909\u3048\u308b\u3002\"The idea of a sports car - inherited by a minivan.\")\nThe third generation MPV was available only in Japan, China, Hong Kong, Macau, Thailand, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and New Zealand. It was known as the Mazda8 in Hong Kong, Macau, Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia. The 4WD and Turbo models are available only in the domestic (Japanese) market, while all export models (usually known as Mazda8) are naturally aspirated FWD models only. In New Zealand, it was known as the MPV and is available in four-cylinder only.\nIt was not sold to North America, Europe and other LHD markets besides China. The Mazda CX-9 (North America and Australasia only) and Mazda5 filled the segment gap in these markets.\nIn 2008, a facelifted version was introduced. External modifications include a new front bumper with new fog lights. A five-speed automatic transaxle replaced the four-speed unit used in NA FWD models. Six-speed Automatics remained in the turbo and 4WD models.\nTurbo models were discontinued in 2010. A Malaysian version was introduced that year, making this the fourth market in which the third generation Mazda MPV was to be sold.\nIn 2012, a 2.5L engine version mated with five-speed automatic replaced the 2.3L with four-speed in China."}
{"id": "731541", "revid": "27199084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731541", "title": "Dru\u017cno", "text": "Dru\u017cno (; , ) is a body of water historically considered a lake in northern Poland on the east side of the Vistula delta, near the city of Elbl\u0105g. As it is currently not deep enough to qualify as a lake hydrologically and receives some periodic inflow of sea water from the Vistula Lagoon along the Elbl\u0105g River, some suggest that it be termed an estuary reservoir. A village of recent origin also called Dru\u017cno is situated near the lake.\nThe German name \"Drausensee\", in earlier records called \"Drusensee\", is connected to the ancient trade city of Truso, which stood within the lands now occupied by Elbl\u0105g. The lake is greatly reduced from its original size partly due to large building expansion of housing in the last few decades, but mainly because of the natural death of the lake by sedimentation. The lake is the site of a nature reserve, one of the 13 sites in Poland protected under the Ramsar convention.\nAn old mention of the name is as a place named \"Truso\" in the report of sailor Wulfstan from the end of the 9th century. The report was included in \"\" which was written in Anglo-Saxon in King Alfred's reign.\nGeography.\nThe central coordinates of the lake are . It lies to the east of the Nogat, the main right branch of the lower Vistula, at the edge of the lowland of the delta (\u017bu\u0142awy Wi\u015blane), which is a region of shifting sediments and channels partly controlled by dikes, dams and ditches. The lake is about in area and sometimes up to below sea level. The delta ends at Elbl\u0105g upland (Wysoczyzna Elbl\u0105ska), much of which is wooded. The delta itself is sparsely populated, despite the presence of large cities nearby (Gda\u0144sk, Elblag and others). Most of it is rich agricultural land and the rest is a wildlife habitat.\nThe lake today is a . body of water with a mean depth of about and a maximum depth of . The lake is drained by the Elbl\u0105g River. There is only a difference in altitude between the lake and Elbl\u0105ska Bay, which projects from Vistula Lagoon. The surface altitude of these bodies varies for a few reasons, such as wind. When there is a strong wind blowing to the south the bay can be a meter or so higher than the lake, which causes back currents in the river.\nThe Prussians called Vistula Lagoon by the name \"fresh-water bay\", which it was in those days. Since then the greatly diminished egress of Vistula water, due to human uses, has\nbrought Baltic water into the bay, now brackish. As a result, back currents in the river bring intrusions of brackish water into the lake. Generally the southern end remains fresh. There probably always were reversals of river current, which must have speeded traffic between Frisches Haff and the lake.\nThe lake is surrounded by and includes marsh, swamp and alder thickets. On its surface are floating Nymphaea, submerged are Potamogeton and the marshes feature tracts of Phragmites. It should have sedimented over long ago but the high throughput of water from various sources brings fresh Oxygen into the lake, retarding its aging.\nTwelve streams empty into the lake radially, with water from another twelve canals being pumped into it. They bring about into the lake (1970) with about 7 draining through the river (1975). Variability in these figures as well as wind and back currents cause expansion and contraction of the lake over wide areas. The total capacity is about with a catchment area of .\nHistorical uses of the lake.\nThe lake is valuable currently mainly as a nature preserve. Some 20,000 migratory waterfowl use it, chiefly Anser, Anas, Grus and Chlidonias.\nIn ancient times the lake was deeper and of wider extent. In the troubled Viking Age and the conflicts and acts of piracy between the various tribes of the Balts and voyagers from Scandinavia and elsewhere, the lake would have been an ideal masked route for shallow-draft vessels, such as the Viking ships. When the lake became useless for that purpose Elblag was still a port with access to the Zalew Wislany and through there to the Gulf of Danzig. It rose to prominence as that. The remains of Truso may be one of the archaeological sites in the area, or it may be under Elblag, or may have been obliterated by construction.\nIn an attempt to make the inland region more accessible, the Prussian government opened the Elbl\u0105g Canal through the lake in 1860. The northern terminus of the canal route to the south is Elbl\u0105g. It runs through a dredged channel in the lake and becomes an overland canal to the south; that is, the canal is composed of sections connected by tracks for lifting and lowering vessels. It joins a number of lakes to the south, but they are not drained by the canal. During its life the canal was used mainly to haul timber to the coast. After destruction in World War II the canal was restored in 1948 but finds little commercial use now. Instead the entire route has been converted into a recreational area featuring nature preserves such as Lake Druzno.\nPrehistory of the lake.\nJanow Pomorski site.\nJanow Pomorski was after 1945 the name of the village of Hansdorf about 7\u00a0km to the southeast of Elbing (now Elbl\u0105g) where the traces of some workshops have been found that were on the then edge of the lake. A large abundance of finished and partly finished artifacts in antler and amber have been found. They were manufactured in structures of about , and long houses about above ground, three rooms, made of wood, believed to be residences also. A cache of wrecked boats has been found. The artifacts are similar to both Slavic and Scandinavian equivalents. Some archaeologists suggest that this may be the site of Truso; however, the name may have referred to a collection of settlements.\nThe settlement is dated from the late 8th century to the early 10th by pottery. Trenches nearby have uncovered two layers of peat sandwiching a layer of peat and sand over a thick layer of silt. The layers have been dated by a variety of methods. The history of the lake is roughly reconstructed as follows:\nThe lake in this view is seen as a transitory phenomenon created by accidents of topography and the growth of the Vistula Delta. The combined lake and bay might have served as a natural border in antiquity but whether it was one remains to be demonstrated. Truso must have been settled between the 2000 BP and 1000 BP lake maxima. Truso might well have been at Jan\u00f3w Pomorski, but the artifacts give no indication that the native populations were Prussian, Slavic or Scandinavian.\nIt is true that in 1237 the entire right bank of the lower Vistula was occupied by Old Prussians and that Truso was in or projected into the Old Prussian dukedom of Pomesania. Moreover, Adalbert of Prague, who came with Boleslaw Chrobrie's soldiers, had been beheaded further north-east at the coast of the Baltic Sea near (Fischhausen), now Rybaki, for cutting down the sacred groves of the Old Prussians as part of an effort to conquer them under guise to convert them in (997 AD). This circumstantial evidence is not conclusive about the ethnicity of the founders of Truso.\nIn 1237 also the Teutonic Order opened hostilities against the Old Prussians, putting down a castle at the future Elbing. The order's modus operandi was to sack and burn an Old Prussian town and then hold it against reoccupation with a stone keep nearby, around which a new town of Germanic or mixed ethnicity would grow. There is no evidence yet that they practiced that method on Truso, although the question is still open. According to the Museum at Elbl\u0105g, Truso was burned down by pirates or robbers two centuries before. Its relationship to the order at Elbing remains unknown.\nPtolemy and the prehistory.\nPtolemy, writing in the period of the initial lake, refers to the entire Gulf of Gda\u0144sk as Venedicus Bay and states that the Greater Venedae occupied its coast. The name is known also among the Slavic Wends, but he may have meant by \"Greater\" that Balts were to be included; if not, one would have to ask where the historical Balts came from. There were some historical Vends later in Latvia, who may have been their descendants.\nPtolemy does mention the Prussians by name (Borusci), but also the Gythones appear at the mouth of the Vistula. These can be interpreted as Goths or the early settlements of Gda\u0144sk might have been there under that name. There is no explicit mention of a town of Danzig and he does not give his usual list of river towns for the Vistula and eastward. Truso was at a location where already in the Roman Empire and before the (only) people who collected and traded amber shipped it south on the Amber Road to Carnuntium and further. In Old Prussian history it is known, that Northmen, Danes came to Prussia and intermarried. A number of swords along the Nemunas river, attest to their presence.\nWulfstan and the prehistory.\nWulfstan of Hedeby left an account of a voyage dated to about 880 AD as told to Alfred the Great and inserted into his translation of Orosius' \"Histories\". It is the first mention of the lake in history and also briefly describes the Prussians of the times, which he calls \"Aesti\" .Aisti- Aesti (meaning easterners) was the name used for Baltic Prussian in records starting 800 years earlier.\nWulfstan sailed from Hedeby (Haithabu), Jutland to Truso in seven days keeping Weonodland (\"Wendland\") on the right as far as the mouth of the Weissel (Vistula). These Venedi are on the opposite bank of the Vistula from the Greater Venedi of Ptolemy. By mouth of the Vistula Wulfstan explains that he means the passage between Frisches Haff and the Bay of Danzig.\nThe Ilfing River runs east of the Weisel from a lake on the banks of which stands Truso into the Estmere (Eastern Sea-Ostsee), where it is incorporated into the Weissel; i.e., Wulfstan sees the Ilfing as a tributary of the Weissel and Estmere as the lower Weissel.\nWeonodland extends as far as the Weissel, after which Witland, the westernmost part of Eastland, begins. It is generally agreed that Wulfstan is interpreting the source of Tacitus' Aestii as Eastland. The Estonians ultimately inherited the name, but in Wulfstan it has to mean at least the Prussians, perhaps further.\nThis passage tells us that the topography was more or less modern. The lake is not named, but it is considered a lake drained by the Ilfing River. Being east of the Weissel, Truso, the lake and the river must be in Witland, but Wulfstan does not say that. He describes the Estonians (Balts) as being a rich and populous nation divided into towns, each of which was ruled by a king. The passage does not pinpoint Truso as being in Weonodland or Eastland and does not say if they are Estonians.\nLanguages of the ethnic populations.\nBy Ptolemy's time the Proto-Balto-Slavic language had divided into Proto-Baltic and Proto-Slavic, perhaps even into dialects. As the greater Venedi and the Weonods cannot have spoken the same language the name must once have applied to both Balts and Slavs (unless Ptolemy was wrong).\nEach were on a different bank of the Vistula, Ptolemy's border between Greater Germany and European Sarmatia. On the left bank Ptolemy lists only peoples he considers Germans. There is no sign of any Venedi, Pomeranians or Kashubians. The Ruticli live in Pomerania with the Lugii to the south of them. Some Gotini (Goths) and Aelvaeones (Elbingers?, local name is to this day Albinger) dwell on the lower Vistula.\nOn the right bank are the Gythones. It would not be surprising to find Goths there too, but if the Gythones are Danzigers, they must have extended to Vistula Spit. East of them were the Venedae, south of whom were the Galindae (one of the Prussian tribes). The Venedae therefore must have been the coastal Estonians of Wulfstan, Western Baltic ancestral speakers.\nBy Wulfstan's time the East Germanic tribes had abandoned the left bank of the Vistula. Some may have remained in and around the Vistula Delta, especially Danzig, possibly Truso. The Slavs had expanded north into Pomerania. Proto-Slavic began to differentiate after the Slavs expanded beyond their Carpathian homeland in the 6th century AD, too late for the foundation of Truso.\nFrom the fact that the name of Charlemagne (742-814 AD), which became the Slavic word for king, entered Proto-Slavic, and other indicators used by historical linguists, it has been deduced that Old Church Slavonic is in fact Proto-Slavic. By 1000 AD it was showing traces of influence by regional dialects. By that time the Slavs had been on the Baltic coast for some time; i.e., Wulfstan's Weonods were speakers of Proto-Slavic. They were probably there before Charlemagne, but he encouraged them to settle along the Baltic. Adalbert's Danzig was not only Christian but very recently under Slavic control, if not to some degree Slavic speaking.\nAfter Adalbert events moved rapidly to produce great changes. Pomerania as a governable territory appeared in the 10th century; by the 11th the initial state of Poland had formed and was contending with the Dukes of Pomerania for control. It was probably at this time that Lekhitic developed and moved rapidly to Polish, Pomeranian, Kashubian and Slovincian. Eastern Pomerania was the Duchy of Pomerelia, which spit into others including Kashubian-speaking areas west of Gda\u0144sk. Kashubian is distinguished by a large number of Low German loans.\nOn the right bank of the Vistula the Proto-Baltic speakers had been gradually giving ground to the Proto-Slavs in the east and lost Pomerania to Germanic expansion. They divided into West and East Baltic in the middle of the 1st millennium. The Goths achieved domination over the West Balts for a time and then were gone. After 1000 Old Prussian Galindian and Sudovian existed. In East Baltic Lithuanian and Latvian were distinct. Between east and west was Curonian. This was the ethnic distribution when the Teutonic Order received Prussia from the Emperor Frederick II and from the pope. The papal bull also granted them the government of all the Balts, as well as the Finnic Estonians, with consequences that continue today.\nThe Slavs had been moving in on the Old Prussians but had been stopped by them. The different duchies made hypocritical claims to lands they never controlled and invited the Teutonic Order to suppress \"rebellions\" there. It is possible therefore that the Kashubian Duchy of Gda\u0144sk was asserting a nominal claim over Lake Dru\u017cno and Truso, but it was never one recognized by the Old Prussians.\nThe name.\nThe name of the settlement has been restored in Old Prussian by prominent worldwide acknowledged Balticists, on the basis of Wulfstan's German (t/d), as *Dr\u016bs\u0101 - cf. Druso first by Georg Gerullis (Die altpreu\u00dfischen Ortsnamen, Berlin 1922, 187), and recently - by Vytautas Maziulis (Pr\u016bsu kalbos etimologijos zodynas I, Vilnius 1988, 231). The ending -o corresponds to Common Prussian nominative singular -o (long), well attested in known Old Prussian Written Monuments (so-called \"Elbing Vocabulary\"). The diphthong au in German Drausen points to the same long *-(Dr)\u016b-, regularly diphthongized in later Prussian. No problem persists for modern Prussologists as concerns Truso. Such a restoration shows the continuity of Western Baltic on this territory in course of several hundred years, probably even before the attested Truso, which is the first known settlement name in the coastal region. The possible originating cultures are not diminished by this restoration, but the linguistic evidence points to the presence of Balts on this territory.\nIn one theory the name is Slavic in origin: \"(Z)Dru\u017cno\" means \"together\" in Slavic languages. It might have been named from being a place of gathering and resting for the caravan traders of various nationalities. However the name Dru\u017cno is nothing else as a later polonizing of the original Baltic name.\nOn the other hand, the historical linguist Julius Pokorny, whose conjectures are strongly outdated at least in the field of the Baltic linguistics, lists *trus-, \"reed\", as an Indo-European root, not used in English, but appearing in Old Church Slavonic and Lithuanian words from a Balto-Slavic form *trusom.\nIf the place was named from the reeds, which are still there, it probably acquired the name Trusom during the growth of the second lake, evolving into the Old Prussian reconstruction from which came the Germanic Drusen, High German Drausen. Such a derivation still does not pinpoint the language spoken by the settlers. However this view does not correspond to conclusions of the main Balticists.\nIn 1897 and in the 1920s excavations near Gut Hansdorf brought a number of archaeological finds to light and it was assumed that it was Truso. These artifacts were kept at the Elbing Museum. War years and the take-over by communists stopped further research. Recently excavations near Gut Hansdorf (now Janowo) were resumed by Polish authorities and the site of unearthed."}
{"id": "731547", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731547", "title": "Capitals of subnational entities of Taiwanese counties and cities", "text": ""}
{"id": "731549", "revid": "51195872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731549", "title": "Garc\u00eda L\u00f3pez de C\u00e1rdenas", "text": "Garc\u00eda L\u00f3pez de C\u00e1rdenas y Figueroa was a Spanish conquistador who was the first European to see the Grand Canyon.\nLife.\nC\u00e1rdenas was born in Llerena, then part of Crown of Castile, second son to Alonso de C\u00e1rdenas, 1st Count of La Puebla del Maestre, and wife Maria Garc\u00eda Osorio. He was the Encomiendador of Caravaca.\nL\u00f3pez de C\u00e1rdenas was a conquistador attached to the exploits of Francisco V\u00e1zquez de Coronado. Expeditions, including one led by Pedro de Tovar, had heard reports of a large river north of C\u00edbola (Zu\u00f1i). C\u00e1rdenas was dispatched in September 1540 by the general stationed in C\u00edbola with the express mission of locating such a river and returning within 80 days. Pedro de Sotomayor accompanied him to record the event as a \"cronista\", along with Hopi guides, Spanish soldiers, and an unknown number of servants. After some twenty days of marching in a northerly direction, he was successful; but his band found difficulties in reaching the river (which was the current Colorado River, that they called River Tizon), owing to the sheer vertical distance down from their position. They were standing on the South Rim of the Grand Canyon, somewhere between present-day Desert View and Grandview Point. C\u00e1rdenas ordered three soldiers, including Pablo de Melgrossa and Juan Galeras, to descend into the canyon. After several days of failed attempts to reach the river (his men were suffering from dehydration), his party was forced to return to C\u00edbola.\nC\u00e1rdenas was the only member of the Coronado Expedition to be convicted of war crimes afterward because of his role in the brutal Tiguex War."}
{"id": "731558", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731558", "title": "Enneadecaeteris", "text": ""}
{"id": "731559", "revid": "40567336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731559", "title": "Mazda R360", "text": "The Mazda R360 is a kei car manufactured and marketed by Mazda from May 1960 to 1969. It was the first passenger car produced by the company. The R360 is a two-door coup\u00e9 with a 2+2 seating arrangement. It has a rear-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout and was designed to be inexpensive and light weight.\nHistory.\nThe R360 was built with the goal of being extremely light weight, as well as low cost. To achieve the weight goal, it was a 2+2 design, with a rear seat not suitable for adults, while the engine was made from aluminium and the chassis also used aluminium and even magnesium alloys. The weight was kept low, only . The use of acrylics rather than glass for the curved rear windshield and the sliding side glass further reduced weight and cost.\nThe R360 was an immediate success, thanks to its low price, but sales soon dropped. The four-seat Subaru 360 captured much of the lightweight (kei car) market, which led Mazda to augment the R360 by the four-seater Mazda Carol (P360) two-door sedan in 1962. The R360 sold 23,417 examples in its first year, with total cumulative production amounting to 65,737 examples. Full production of the R360 lasted for six years (until 1966), but the automatic version remained available to disabled drivers as a special order until 1969.\nSpecification.\nThe R360 featured a wheelbase, weighed and was powered by a rear-mounted air-cooled 356 cc V-twin engine producing and of torque. The car was capable of and featured a 4-speed manual or two-speed automatic transmission. The suspension, front and rear, was rubber \"springs\" and torsion bars. There were two variants of the Mazda R360, officially known as KRBB and KRBC. The KRBB came with a 4-speed manual transmission, whereas the KRBC was equipped with a 2-speed \"TORQ DRIVE\" automatic transmission.\nColours.\nThe standard Mazda R360 came in three different exterior colours; Opal Green, Maroon Rouge, and Somerset Blue. The Mazda R360 DeLuxe came in two different two-tone variants: Blue and Cream or Red and Cream.\nFor the interior of the Mazda R360, the official colour choices were Red or Blue. These colour options were applied to the seats, carpet, and inner door panels.\nB360 Pickup.\nThe B360 was a pickup truck bodystyle based on parts of the R360 Coup\u00e9. It used the same 356\u00a0cc engine, but in a front-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout. Like most pickups, it used a rigid rear axle and leaf spring suspension. The engine was replaced with the Carol's 358\u00a0cc I4 in 1964, and the B360 was replaced by the Mazda E360 in 1967.\nA larger B600 pickup was introduced for the export market. It used a 577\u00a0cc version of the Mazda V-twin."}
{"id": "731562", "revid": "43000420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731562", "title": "Trinity Grammar School (New South Wales)", "text": "Trinity Grammar School is a multi-campus independent Anglican single-sex early learning, primary and secondary day school for boys, in Inner West Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. The main campus in provides a comprehensive education to students from Year 7 to Year 12; the campus in Strathfield provides a comprehensive education to early learning and primary school students, from Kindergarten to Year 6; and outdoor education facilities are located at Woollamia on the NSW South Coast. The school previously enrolled boarders until the end of 2019.\nFounded in 1913 by George Chambers at Dulwich Hill, the school has a non-selective enrolment policy and currently caters for approximately 2,000 (during 2007)students. The Headmaster of Trinity Grammar School is Timothy Bowden.\nTrinity is affiliated with the International Boys' Schools Coalition (IBSC), the Association of Heads of Independent Schools of Australia (AHISA), The Independent Primary School Heads of Australia (IPSHA), which was formerly known as the Junior School Heads Association of Australia (JSHAA), the Independent Primary School Heads of Australia, the Australian Boarding Schools' Association (ABSA), and is a founding member of the Combined Associated Schools (CAS).\nGovernance.\nThe School is governed by a Council (appointed by ordinance of the Diocese of Sydney), with the Archbishop of Sydney, Kanishka Raffel as the President. The council currently has seventeen members, with six lay members being elected by the Synod of the Diocese of Sydney, six clergy being elected by the Synod, and three being nominated by the Old Trinitarians Union (OTU). The final two positions are voted on by the sitting members of the council. James Mills was Chairman of the School Council for thirty-three years. Richard Pegg is the current chairman.\nTrinity Grammar's \"sister school\" is Meriden School at Strathfield, an independent, Anglican, day school for girls. In 2018, Trinity Grammar School began integrating Meriden's cadet unit into Trinity's cadet unit.\nHistory.\nGeorge Chambers , subsequently Bishop of Central Tanganyika, founded the School in 1913 at Dulwich Hill, of which parish - the Parish of Holy Trinity - he was then Rector. At its foundation, Trinity was a small parochial school with 29 boys enrolled. This number had reached 57 at the end of that year.\nHaving been appointed Warden of the School, Chambers' immediate task was to find a Headmaster. Thus, K.T. Henderson was appointed as the first Headmaster of Trinity Grammar in February 1913. In November 1915, the School formulated its motto, \"Detur Gloria Soli Deo\", which may be translated from Latin to \"Let Glory be Given to God Alone\". The School colours were chosen to reflect the liturgical season of Trinity, namely green.\nA property known as \"The Towers\" was purchased by the parish and used both as a School and Rectory. Later a larger property, \"Hazeldene\", was to be bought, also acting as both school and Rectory. The present site at Summer Hill, set in of land, was first occupied by the School in 1926, during the Head Mastership of G. E. Weeks.\nBy 1942 the prospects for Trinity were grim and it was decided that it should be closed. As a last attempt to save the School, the Council appointed James Wilson Hogg as Headmaster in 1944. By the time Wilson Hogg retired in 1974, Trinity was flourishing and had become one of the leading independent schools in NSW.\nTrinity Grammar School Preparatory School.\nSir Philip Sydney Jones was the original owner of the site on which the Preparatory School is now located. Upon his death, the area surrounding the house (including the house itself) was split into several areas which were then put up for auction. A small group of Strathfield residents first had the idea of using a portion of the grounds as a school, which became Strathfield Grammar School.\nIn 1926 it was offered to Trinity Grammar School and bought by them, but Strathfield Grammar School and Trinity Grammar School continued to function as separate establishments until 1932, when the two became Trinity Grammar School. From 1932 until 1937, most, if not all, of the teaching was done in Strathfield, although the school still used the Summer Hill Campus for sport. However, in 1938 the Senior School returned to Summer Hill and the Strathfield Campus for the first time became the Preparatory School.\nThe Preparatory School grounds are actually three separate properties - \"Milverton\", \"Llandilo\" and \"Somerset.\" Milverton House was purchased by the school in 1966 and was used for educating \"Sub Primary\" or infants students. The most recent extension on \"Milverton\" was completed in 1991 and the building is now large enough to house the entire Infants department. Somerset was designed by Bertrand James Waterhouse and built in 1923 for James and Dorothy Larcombe (1900-1990). James Larcombe died in 1943 and his widow married Sir Percy Joske in 1969. Somerset was purchased by Trinity after the death of Lady Joske in 1990 and the Joske room, located on the edge of Somerset takes her name. \"Llandilo\" house is the largest of all the properties of the Preparatory School. Since its initial purchase in 1932 it has been the main building of Strathfield campus, providing education for the furthest advanced boys in the Primary curriculum. In 2005, a new sports and music centre was opened opposite \"Llandilo.\" This contains over 10 music studios, as well as several larger music rooms and an underground gym. This allowed all of the Primary School to finally be moved back into \"Llandilo,\" which had ceased to function properly with the sharp rise in student numbers before that date. In 2010, a new library was completed underneath the staff room, which has a connection to the \"Llandilo\" building.\nTrinity Grammar School Preparatory School has grown extensively over the years, but the overall size of the property is much less than the original holdings of Sir Philip Sydney Jones.\nJunior school.\nIn 1946 the then Headmaster, Mr James Wilson Hogg, introduced a Junior School to the Summer Hill Campus and commenced with 36 boys in four classrooms. The Junior School, in various arrangements of classes and with up to 78 boys continued at Summer Hill until 1956, when all of the primary school boys were relocated to the Preparatory School at Strathfield.\nIn 2000 the Junior School was re-established by the Headmaster, Mr G. Milton Cujes, on the Summer Hill campus as a gesture of good faith to the families who had committed to the Southern Campus, a venture that until this date has not been realised. The Junior School recommenced with 72 boys in four classes from Year 3 to 6. The classes were located in temporary accommodation between No.1 Oval and No.3 Oval.\nIn 2002, the School Council determined that the Junior School would become a permanent part of the educational profile at the Summer Hill Campus for the foreseeable future.\nIn 2003 the Junior School moved to permanent accommodation in the old Boarding House, and was formally recommissioned in a ceremony whose guests included Messrs Neil Buckland and Neil Demeril, both of whom had been students at the Summer Hill Junior School in the 1940s.\nIn 2006, the Junior School expanded to include an Infants Campus, based in Lewisham, specifically for children from pre-school to Year 2 age. The site for this development was the land on which the St Thomas Beckett Primary School had been previously located. This portion of the school began with 12 students, and now has over 50 students.\nHaving received planning permission from Ashfield council, the School has proceeded to demolish several houses on Seaview Street, creating a space in which the new Junior School was to be built. Construction on the site concluded in later end of 2012 and the new Junior School was officially opened on 3 October 2012 by Robert Forsyth.\nIn 2013, Trinity started a preschool.\nHeadmasters.\nThe following individuals have served as Headmaster of the Trinity Grammar School:\nCampuses.\nThe School consists of three separate but closely linked establishments:\nAttempts were made in the early 2000s towards establishing a campus in Sydney's southern suburbs. Such plans have been postponed indefinitely by the School. In 2014 the school decided to close the Outdoor Education Centre at the Pine Bluff Campus, located near Bigga, New South Wales due to the cost associated with maintaining the Outdoor Education Center in a remote location. The land that was used for the Outdoor Education Center was donated previously to the school by an old boy. In 2016 Trinity Grammar School opened a new Field Studies Centre in Woollamia, New South Wales.\nIn 2022, the school announced the commencement of the Renewal Project at Summer Hill. The multi-phase development began with initial construction work focused on infrastructure improvements, including a redesigned front entrance. Subsequent phases now in progress include a new four-storey building intended to provide additional general-purpose teaching spaces. This building will sit in the centre of the school campus, between Number 2 Oval and the quadrangle, and between the Sports Centre and the James Wilson Hogg Assembly Hall. It is anticipated that the project will be completed for the start of the school year in 2027.\nFacilities.\nThe Trinity Grammar School senior campus is located in Summer Hill, and features a mix of old and new buildings and facilities.\nSome current facilities of the school include:\nSchool song and prayer.\nThe school song is \"Detur Gloria Soli Deo\", and is sung to the tune \"Stuttgart\" No. 200 in the \"Australian Hymn Book\"\n&lt;poem&gt;\nDetur Gloria Soli deo,\nLet the prayer triumphant ring;\nFather, Son and Holy Spirit,\nTrinity of thee we sing.\nTrinitarians give the glory,\nIn a song of praise and joy;\nFor our School and her great story,\nGlory give to God alone.\nStudents past and those now present,\nThose the future years shall bring,\nDetur Gloria Soli Deo,\nThis our own great anthem sing.\n&lt;/poem&gt;\nSchool Prayer\n&lt;poem&gt;\nHeavenly Father, we ask your blessing\nUpon all those who work in and for this School.\nGrant us faith to grow spiritually, strength\nTo grow bodily and wisdom to grow intellectually,\nThrough Jesus Christ our Lord.\nAmen.\n&lt;/poem&gt;\nHouse system.\nStudents at the Summer Hill campus are divided into sixteen houses, named after significant facets of the school's history, the four original houses were Archer, Henderson, Hilliard and School. The 16 houses in Trinity Grammar School are Archer, Dulwich, Founders, Henderson, Hilliard, Holwood, Kerrigan, Latham, Murphy, School, Stephenson, Taubman, Weeks, Wilson Hogg, Wynn Jones and Young house. School House was reserved for boarders, although leading up to the closure of the boarding program in 2019 non-boarders were placed into this house to supplement the numbers. Boys are usually put into their family house, the same house as their father or grandfather or brother. Each house has a house captain and a maximum of three house vice-captains, with the majority of houses also having an unlimited number of prefects (students cannot be both a prefect and house captain).\nEach year the different houses compete for the House Cup in a variety of activities such as swimming, track and field, touch football, indoor soccer, chess, debating, music, academic, cricket, fitness challenge, dodgeball, tug of war, drama performances and quad challenge. Through these activities houses are awarded points, and at the completion of the calendar year the house with the most points wins the cup, presented at the final assembly. In the case of significant victories, such as winning the swimming carnival or track and field, each house gives three cheers (in quick succession, clockwise around the quadrangle) for the victorious house, with the victorious house giving three final cheers for the school. These cheers are led by the house officers (often aided by prefects), who typically deliver the three cheers with as much volume as can be mustered.\nTaubman House is the current house championship holder (2021), the current swimming champions are Archer House (2019) and the current track and field champion is Taubman House (2019).\nSenior school.\nThe senior school is divided into sixteen houses, as follows:\nJunior school.\nThe Junior School is divided into four houses, as follows;\nPreparatory school.\nThe preparatory school is divided into four houses. These houses earn points towards the house cup, which is awarded at the prize giving each year. Competitions for houses include track and field, swimming, cricket, debating, rugby and academic. Each house is assigned a housemaster, who has responsibility for the direct organization of the pupils in their house. Most teachers are assigned a house, and although they have no day-to-day tasks relating to the house, they are used to provide additional control at house events. Unlike the house system at the senior school, the preparatory school houses do not have any direct impact on the academic or co-curricular aspects of the school. The houses are:\nFormer houses.\nOld Junior School houses were;\nCurriculum.\nPreparatory School.\nIn 2007, the Preparatory School adopted the Primary Years Program (PYP), which was developed by the International Baccalaureate Organisation (IBO) to provide Primary school students with a platform from which they can develop their education in preparation for the International Baccalaureate. This provides a separate program for learning, but this is the framework for the teaching of Maths, English, Computer Studies, Physical Education, Visual Arts and Music. Students learn Mandarin Chinese from Year 3, at the beginning of Primary School, and continue this up until the time they leave Preparatory School. The School is currently in the second phase of accreditation as a PYP school.\nMiddle and Senior Schools.\nTrinity offers both the NSW Higher School Certificate (HSC) and International Baccalaureate Diploma Program (IB) for Year 11 and 12 students. Boys in the HSC and the IB, while being able to interact with each other through the House/Pastoral and Sport/Curriculum systems, are taught separately, due to the differing nature of the two curricula.\nDespite its relative success, however, the IB Middle Years Program (MYP) has not been introduced into the Middle School. Both the PYP and the MYP are specifically designed for an introduction into the IB, and, due to the popularity of the IB among students, there is a chance that the MYP will be brought into the Middle School in years to come, although the School has neither confirmed nor denied this.\nSport.\nTrinity Grammar School is a member of the Combined Associated Schools (CAS), and through this association competes with other members of the CAS as well as Independent Schools Association and GPS member schools. Sporting activities offered include Australian rules football, basketball, chess, cricket, cross country, diving, fencing, football (soccer), golf, lawn bowls, rugby, snow sports, squash, swimming, table tennis, tennis, touch football, track and field (athletics), volleyball, and water polo.\nControversies.\nIn 1971 a Trinity student sued the school and one of its masters, claiming that he had been caned excessively. Colin Morris, 15, said that his buttocks were sore for three days, and bruised for three weeks, after receiving six strokes of the cane. The judge threw the case out, saying that the punishment had been reasonable, and added, \"The salutary effect of the infliction of pain on a schoolboy, experience might show, justifies the reasonable use of this form of chastisement on healthy teenage boys.\"\nBetween 1984 and 1988, a senior school Mathematics teacher, Mr R. Doyle, was accused of sexually abusing two students who had been undertaking private tutoring with him on school grounds. Mr Doyle eventually pleaded guilty and was sentenced in 1997, long after his dismissal from the school.\nIn 2000, a group of Year 10 boarding students were charged with sexually assaulting two students more than 75 times, including with a collection of wooden dildos made in a woodwork class, one of which was called the \"Anaconda\". Witnesses testified that the assaults often took place during lunch hour, and they \"often heard screaming from the dormitory\". Three students were expelled by the school and convicted of various offences as minors. Compensation payments to two victims of bullying at the school are likely to have been approximately $1 million. It was alleged that the school had a culture of bullying A film loosely based on the incident, \"Boys Grammar\", was produced in 2005. Academics now quote this case, and the school's attempts to minimise public awareness and perceived damage to it, in studies in this area.\nTrinity's plan to bulldoze twelve of the seventeen houses it owns bordering the school grounds, in order to build a swimming pool, multi-purpose hall, classroom block and underground carpark, was approved by the NSW Land and Environment Court in November 2007. The single Ashfield Councillor who supported the application was an alumnus of the school, and described his fellow Councillors as \"envious\" and \"a pathetic bunch of people\".\nIn January 2016, the school was brought to prominence as a result of allegations of \"sexualised behaviour\" that occurred at the conclusion of 2015, between Year 1 students of the school. The allegations involved sexual acts being performed by students, whilst unsupervised during school hours, in the school toilets and playground. The Department of Family and Community Services was brought in to investigate the matter after the school was contacted by a concerned parent of one of the alleged victims.\nIn January 2017, former teacher Neil Futcher was sentenced to 18 years and 4 months' jail, with a non-parole period of 11 years, for 22 child sex offences committed against six students between 1974 and 1981.\nIn August 2020, police arrested English teacher Alexander Simpson in front of students and charged him with sending indecent material to a person under 16 and soliciting child abuse material. Detectives from the NSW Police child abuse unit had posed as a 13-year-old girl online, and alleged that he sent explicit images and messages to the undercover police whilst at work. He was later sentenced to 24 months in prison, but released under a recognisance order as he was the sole carer for his wife, who lived with a disability.\nAlumni.\nAlumni of Trinity Grammar School are known as Old Trinitarians and automatically gain membership members of the school's Alumni Association, the Old Trinitarians Union. Through the Old Trinitarians Union, Old Boys regularly compete against current students in various sports such as cricket, volleyball and basketball, with the winner of the overall competition given the Jubilee Cup on Speech Day, with the President of the OTU collecting it on behalf of the old boys and the School Captain collecting it on behalf of the School."}
{"id": "731567", "revid": "668752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731567", "title": "AHEPA", "text": ""}
{"id": "731568", "revid": "3628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731568", "title": "Mayflower Madam", "text": ""}
{"id": "731573", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731573", "title": "Apartment 3G", "text": ""}
{"id": "731576", "revid": "16223062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731576", "title": "Curt Weldon", "text": "Wayne Curtis Weldon (born July 22, 1947) is an American educator and politician. He served as a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives from 1987 to 2007, representing the 7th district of Pennsylvania. He was defeated in November 2006 for reelection by Joe Sestak. Weldon was vice-chair of the Armed Services Committee and the House Homeland Security Committee. He was also the co-chair of the Duma-Congress Study Group, the official inter-parliamentary relationship between the United States and Russia.\nEarly life and education.\nWeldon grew up in a blue-collar family in Marcus Hook, Pennsylvania. He was the youngest of nine children. He attended West Chester University of Pennsylvania and earned a B.A. in Russian studies in 1969, making him the first in his family to graduate from college. At West Chester University, Weldon became a brother of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.\nAfter graduation, Weldon was subject to the draft, with the Vietnam War ongoing. In November 2000, his office said he used student and teaching deferments during the Vietnam era, and had a low number when the draft lottery was reinstated. In July 2006, a Weldon spokesman said that Weldon \"wanted to serve, but the military would not take him because of his extremely poor eyesight.\"\nEarly political career.\nWeldon wasn't active in politics until 1977, when he became the Mayor of Marcus Hook. Prior to that, he served as an educator in local Delaware County schools, and for the Insurance Company of North America, as well as a volunteer line officer chief for the Viscose Fire Company in Marcus Hook.\nWeldon served two terms as Mayor from 1977 to 1982 and was nominated for election on both the Republican and Democratic tickets. His efforts as mayor were geared towards defending the town against the violent Pagans Motorcycle Gang.\nFrom 1981 to 1986, Weldon served as a councilman and later chair of the Delaware County Council. Maintaining his interest in foreign affairs, he coordinated a USSR student exchange program in 1985 that continues to this day.\nCongressional campaigns.\n1984\u20132004.\nWeldon first ran for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives for the 7th district of Pennsylvania in 1984 on the Republican ticket, losing to incumbent Democrat Robert W. Edgar by just 412 votes even as Ronald Reagan carried the district by over 20 points. However, Edgar did not seek re-election in 1986 but instead ran for the U.S. Senate against Arlen Specter. Weldon then ran again for Edgar's seat in 1986 and won with a comfortable margin.\nWeldon's margin for re-election grew considerably since 1986, handily defeating Democratic opponents even as Delaware County, once a classic Rockefeller Republican bastion, became friendlier to Democrats at the national level. In 2000, for instance, he was re-elected with 65% of the vote even though Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore won Delaware County with 54% of the vote.\nIn 2004, Weldon won with 59% of the vote. By contrast, Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry got 53% of the district's vote that year. Weldon's Democratic opponent, Paul Scoles, spent $24,000 running against the nine-term incumbent; in that 2003\u20132004 election cycle, Weldon received nearly $900,000 in campaign contributions. Scoles entered the race in the last 90 days of the campaign, when the original Democratic candidate, Greg Philips, was called up for Reserve duty to support the Iraq War.\n2006.\nWeldon's Democratic opponent in 2006 was Joe Sestak, a Vice-Admiral who retired earlier in the year after a 31-year military career. According to the \"Delaware County Daily Times\", Sestak proved to be a capable fundraiser and had raised more money than Weldon.\nIn July, CQPolitics changed their rating on the race from \"Republican Favored\" to the more competitive \"Leans Republican.\" On October 13, 2006, CQPolitics once again changed their rating on the race, from \"Leans Republican\" to \"No Clear Favorite.\"\nOn October 26, 2006, \"American Prospect\" magazine reported that e-mails recently had been forwarded to the Justice Department that describe alleged efforts by official members of Weldon's staff to call Navy employees for information and negative statements about Democratic opponent Sestak. In one Pentagon email, Weldon's office is described as \"calling everyone and his brother\" in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations (OPNAV) about Sestak.\nOn October 27, 2006, the advocacy group Campaign for America's Future began running advertisements in Pennsylvania's 7th District questioning $233,840 in campaign contributions Weldon received from drug and insurance companies, in light of his voting history.\nOn November 7, 2006, Weldon lost the general election, taking 44% of the vote to Sestak's 56%.\nActions in Congress.\nWeldon's moderately conservative voting record (lifetime ACU rank: 69.9)) reflected the overwhelming Republican voter registration in Delaware County, which has varied from a low of about 62% to about 70% of registered voters 1998\u20132006. His voting record was slightly more conservative than the entire Pennsylvania Congressional delegation; Weldon's 2006 ACU rank was 68 vs. the average 2006 ACU rank of 57 for all 19 PA Congressmen.\nDomestic issues.\nWeldon founded the Congressional Fire Services Caucus in 1987 and has consistently fought for increased funding for firefighters. He was the author of a bill that implemented a federal grant program for local fire departments that evolved into the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. He has fought for mandatory safety sprinklers in college dormitories and training of fire departments to deal with terrorism incidents involving chemical and biological weapons. At times, his alleged pork barrel spending was challenged by fiscal conservatives such as Arizona Congressman Jeff Flake; Weldon once told Flake, \"Doggone it, I'm not gonna let somebody stand up here in total and complete ignorance and spout off a bunch of gobbledygook. Don't stand up on the floor and make stupid allegations because you want a headline about cutting waste. This is not waste.\"\nWeldon co-chaired the House Oceans Caucus. In 1995, his \"Oceans Agenda\" legislation passed Congress, increasing funding for oceanographic research projects. Weldon was the sole House Republican on the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission, which approves funding for U.S. wildlife refuges and wetlands preservation. Weldon is a member of Global Legislators for a Balanced Environment (GLOBE), where he serves as Honorary Chairman of the Oceans Protection Task Force. Weldon also serves as the honorary United States Vice President on the Advisory Committee on the Protection of the Sea (ACOPS). In his district, Weldon secured funding for the John Heinz Wildlife Refuge in Tinicum and obtained funding for the preservation of the Paoli Battlefield, the site of a Revolutionary War battle that was slated for development.\nWeldon also co-authored the Family Medical Leave Act, pushed for the extension of unemployment benefits, has consistently supported raising the minimum wage, opposed the North American Free Trade Agreement, and voted for across-the-board tax cuts. He also played a key leadership role in welfare reform in the mid-1990s.\nForeign policy.\nIn 1993, Weldon and Bob Dole, among other Republicans, advocated pulling out of Somalia after the \"Blackhawk Down\" failed snatch and grab mission of Mohamed Farrah Aidid cost 18 American dead.\nRussia and China.\nIn June 1998, Weldon served on the Select Committee on U.S. National Security and Military/Commercial Concerns with the People's Republic of China, perhaps better known as the \"Cox Committee.\" The committee, five Republicans and four Democrats, investigated whether the Clinton Administration's waivers allowing U.S. military contractors to transfer military technology to China damaged national security. According to officials who have been briefed about its contents, the report concludes that Beijing's acquisition of secret American weapons designs was part of an intelligence collection effort that spanned 20 years, including both Republican and Democratic Administrations. It also enumerates an array of thefts from the Government's weapons labs, including classified information about seven advanced nuclear warheads, among them the W-88, the most sophisticated nuclear weapon in the American arsenal; that theft is believed to have occurred during the Reagan or Bush Administrations. The report also says that China stole design information about the neutron bomb.\nWeldon made improving relations with Russia one of his key efforts in the House. He worked with Russian leaders on a variety of issues, including efforts to improve Russia's energy supply, correct environmental damage, and protect both nations from ballistic missile attack. Weldon was the co-founder of the Duma-Congress Study Group, the official parliamentary exchange between the two legislative bodies. This bilateral relationship coordinated legislative efforts in the Russian Duma and the Congress to foster a better working relationship between the two nations. In 2017, Weldon created a comprehensive framework designed to improve the state of relations between the two countries. Titled \"A New Time, A New Beginning\", his proposal made recommendations for cooperative efforts in eleven different areas ranging from defense and national security to space exploration and scientific research.\nVisits to North Korea.\nIn June 2003, Weldon lead a bipartisan Congressional delegation to North Korea. The delegation didn't go as official representatives of the White House, which had repeatedly refused North Korea's demands that the two countries meet one-on-one. The White House did know the trip was planned and did supply a military helicopter.\nWeldon said that the meetings went extremely well. Weldon said he drew up an outline of how relations could be improved between the two countries, which would involve the complete nuclear disarmament of North Korea. North Korean leaders, including the vice-foreign minister who is the chief negotiator for the North, were receptive to the concept, said Weldon.\nIn October 2003, Weldon had planned to head a 10-member Congressional delegation to North Korea for his second visit. But two days prior to the October 25 departure date, White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card informed Weldon that the administration was \"pulling all support.\" Weldon then wrote a 4\u00bd-page letter to President George W. Bush that said that Bush's national security team was \"arrogant and disrespectful\" in the way it cancelled the trip. Weldon said he would continue his efforts to dialogue with North Korean officials whether the White House supports him or not. \"They can't stop me from going there\", he said. \"What they can do is make things supremely difficult.\"\nIn January 2005, Weldon led a six-member Congressional delegation in a three-day visit to North Korea, as well as brief stops in South Korea, China, Russia and Japan. Weldon said Pyongyang was serious about abandoning its nuclear program, but he said it wanted certain assurances from the United States \u2014 the main one being that an end to what he called \"inflammatory rhetoric\" from Washington.\nIn August 2005, Weldon went to North Korea as part of a 10-member delegation that included Ted Turner and former U.S. Ambassador to South Korea Donald Gregg.\nVisits to Libya.\nIn 2004, Weldon led two bipartisan delegations to Libya. The first visit, in January, was to establish contact with government officials. The second visit, in September, was to address their Congress (Libyan General People's Congress Great Jamahiriya).\nA large picture of Weldon putting what his office said was an American flag pin on Colonel Muammar al-Gaddafi, the head of Libya, was displayed when Weldon spoke at the Sun Myung Moon coronation ceremony.\nIn 2011, Weldon again visited the Gaddafi-controlled Libyan capital of Tripoli as a private citizen, on the invitation of Colonel Gaddafi. He urged Colonel Gaddafi to step down due to bloodshed in the 2011 Libyan civil war. He met with several high-level members of Gaddafi's government.\nIraq, Iran, and terrorism.\nWeldon has frequently taken contrarian positions on such subjects as Saddam Hussein, Osama bin Laden, and pre-war Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. He has been critical of several federal agencies and of Congressional committees.\nIn October 2005, Weldon gave a speech on the House floor in which he described the Able Danger military intelligence program, stating they correctly identified Mohamed Atta's Brooklyn cell in January and February 2000, a year prior to the attacks. He also claimed they were repeatedly blocked by litigation from delivering their findings to the FBI in September 2000.\nClaims of Iranian terror plot against the United States.\nIn mid-2005, Weldon's book, \"Countdown to Terror: The Top-Secret Information that Could Prevent the Next Terrorist Attack on America ... and How the CIA Has Ignored It\", was published. Weldon claimed the Iranian government was plotting a terrorist attack against the United States. Weldon accused the CIA, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, and his colleagues on the House and Senate intelligence committees of ignoring his trove of information. These secrets, he says, come from \"an impeccable clandestine source\", whom Weldon code-names \"Ali\", an Iranian exile living in Paris. Much of the book consists of reproduced pages of \"intelligence\" memos faxed by Ali to Weldon's office between 2003 and 2004.\nAccording to the book, Iranian-supported terrorists were plotting to fly a hijacked Canadian airliner into the Seabrook Nuclear Power Station, 40 miles outside Boston. The book also said that Iran was hiding Osama bin Laden.\n\"Ali\" was identified in April 2005 as Fereydoun Mahdavi, a frail, elderly former minister of commerce in the government of the Shah of Iran. Mahdavi has said that the bulk of the information that he provided to Weldon originally came from Iran-Contra arms dealer Manucher Ghorbanifar.\nThe CIA and former intelligence officers vehemently dispute Weldon's charges. Bill Murray, the former CIA station chief in Paris, said that, after interviewing Mahdavi on several occasions and investigating his claims, the CIA determined he was lying. The CIA says that Mahdavi never gave them anything specific about Iran's weapons capability or terrorist activities. As for Ghorbanifar, he is the subject of a rare CIA \"burn notice\" after the agency found him to be a \"fabricator\" during the Iran-Contra affair.\nHidden weapons of mass destruction.\nWeldon supported the theory that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction. As late as 2006, after coalition forces in Iraq failed to find Iraqi weapons caches, Weldon insisted that Saddam Hussein's government had developed weapons of mass destruction.\nDave Gaubatz, a former Air Force special investigator who was as a civilian employee in Iraq in 2003, says that while in Iraq, he acquired what he considered reliable information about WMD caches in four locations that had gas and chemical weapons that were recently produced. He could not get U.S. military officials to look into the matter, so he eventually contacted Weldon and Representative Peter Hoekstra, head of the House Intelligence Committee, to share his information and to try to get them to pressure the Defense Department and intelligence agencies to do the WMD searches in four locales.\nInstead, Gaubatz said, Weldon discussed a Hoekstra-Weldon trip to Iraq, under the guise of visiting the troops, that would detour to one of the locales. Once there, Gaubatz said, the congressmen planned to persuade the U.S. military commander to lend them the equipment and men to go digging for the cache. He said that Weldon made it clear he didn't want word leaked to the Pentagon, to intelligence officials, or to Democratic congressmen.\nGaubatz said that \"They even worked out how it would go. If there was nothing there, nothing would be said. If the site had been [scavenged], nothing would be said. But, if it was still there, they would bring the press corps out.\" After a May 4, 2006 meeting, according to Gaubatz, he called a reporter at \"The Washington Times\", who called Weldon's office to get confirmation. That inquiry, Gaubatz said, scuttled the project.\nA spokesman for Hoekstra denied that Hoekstra intended to take an expedition to Iraq. Weldon's office refused to comment.\nMarch 2004 coronation.\nWeldon was one of six \"Congressional Co-Chairs\" for a Sun Myung Moon event on March 23, 2004, in the Dirksen Senate Office Building, which was described in the invitation as being for the \"Interreligious and International Peace Council.\" The IIPC is a program of the Universal Peace Federation. Weldon's office initially denied that he attended the event and when shown the invitation showing him as a cosponsor said that he had been unable to attend the event. They retracted those claims upon being shown photos proving his attendance, claiming that his participation was \"limited to his attendance.\" Investigative reporter John Gorenfeld then found a photo depicting Weldon as giving the opening \"congratulatory remarks\" from the stage. Weldon gave a speech about his recent trip to Libya in front of a photo of him pinning an award on Muammar al-Gaddafi. A spokesman for Weldon then said he \"was not there for the crowning\" and that \"If we had known that Reverend Moon was going to attend the event, be crowned and make an unbelievably interesting speech, the congressman likely would not have attended.\"\nControversies.\n2006 Investigation.\nIn 2006 Weldon faced investigation by the Justice Department's Public Integrity Section for suspected unlawful ties to two Russian companies and two Serbian citizens, when in a filing with the Federal Election Commission Weldon's campaign committee reported that it transferred $70,000 to the \"Weldon Legal Expense Trust\". When reports surfaced of this in September 2006, Russ Caso, Weldon's chief of staff, said that the congressman and his staff were unaware of any investigation.\nThe FBI and Justice Department's investigations were triggered by a 2004 article in the \"Los Angeles Times\" reporting on Weldon and his daughter's links to the Russians and Serbians. On October 16, 2006, FBI agents raided the home of Weldon's daughter as well as five other locations of Weldon associates in Pennsylvania and Florida as part of the investigation. According to an article in the October 17, 2006, edition of \"The New York Times\", \"investigators are trying to determine whether Mr. Weldon misused his official position to help his daughter's company obtain lobbying contracts from foreign clients and helped steer contracts to favored firms.\" On October 16, 2006, Weldon acknowledged he was under investigation. Before Weldon's public confirmation, an unnamed federal law enforcement official mentioned in press accounts said that Weldon had not yet been told about the inquiry.\nA grand jury was impaneled as part of the investigation. Evidence reportedly had been obtained through wiretaps of Washington area cellphones. On October 19, 2006, \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" reported that Weldon has in his possession a letter from the House Ethics Committee that he claims \"closed the case\" about whether he used his influence to help his daughter. Weldon said he has not decided whether or not to release the letter. Although emails from the Weldon campaign quoted by the \"Inquirer\" claim the Ethics panel \"closed the case in 2004\", the article reveals the matter was not dismissed until September 29, 2006. The Ethics Committee action is not binding on the Department of Justice investigation.\nOn December 22, 2006, the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that a federal grand jury had subpoenaed Weldon's congressional records prior to the November elections. Because a member must notify House leadership promptly if they receive subpoenas while the House is in session to be entered into the Congressional Record, Weldon may have violated House rules depending on when he received the subpoenas. On July 17, 2007, \"The Washington Post\" reported that, as of Spring 2007, federal investigators were continuing to examine Weldon's official actions taken on behalf of his daughter's lobbying clients. The same article noted that Weldon had spent at least $30,000 in legal fees and related investigatory expenses as a result of the probe.\nWeldon was never charged in the incident, however the \"USA Today\" claimed in 2008 that the incident had cost him his re-election.\nLobbying controversies.\nIn September 2006, the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) released its second annual report on members of Congress with ethics issues, titled \"Beyond DeLay: The 20 Most Corrupt Members of Congress (and five to watch)\". Weldon was one of the 20. The organization said \"His ethics issues stem from using his position to financially benefit his children and a family friend.\"\nIn response, Weldon spokesman Michael Puppio said there is \"nothing illegal or improper about any of the actions mentioned\" in the CREW report. He said the organization is a \"front group for liberal Democrats who have a partisan ax to grind against Republicans.\"\nIn January 2006, the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that Cecilia Grimes, 40, who calls herself a longtime family friend of Weldon, was the senior partner in a two-person lobbying firm located in Media, Pennsylvania, where she is realtor. The lobbying firm has clients from as far away as California with business that involves one or both of the House committees that Weldon is a member of.\nGrimes told the Times she has known Weldon for about 15 years. \"I coached one of his kids in junior high school\", she said, declining to elaborate. In 2000, she was his real estate agent in the purchase of a house in Pennsylvania. She has been lobbying since March 2003, when she opened a firm called CC Nexus LLC \u2014 now incorporated as Grimes and Young. Grimes' partner is Cynthia Young, 28, a lawyer who lives two houses from Weldon. Her husband, Robert J. Young, worked as a paid staff aide for four months on Weldon's 2004 re-election campaign. He is the son of U.S. Representative Bill Young (R-FL).\nGrimes has signed up at least eight corporate clients, four of which are located in Weldon's district. The companies are mostly small firms seeking federal defense and domestic security funding. Among the most recent clients signed by Grimes and Young is Oto Melara, a subsidiary of Italian defense company Finmeccanica, the firm that employs Kim Weldon. On June 1, 2005, the company agreed to pay Grimes $20,000 annually. Grimes was put in touch with Oto Melara by Weldon's chief of staff, Russ Caso. But, Grimes said in an interview, her employment was not because of Weldon. \"That's ridiculous\", she said.\nAnother client is Advanced Ceramics Research Inc., a Tucson, Arizona firm. Grimes lobbied about a dozen members of Congress, including Weldon, for a $3 million contract in 2005, which became the firm's first funding from a defense appropriations bill. The firm has since won a combined $43.5 million in Navy contracts and congressional funding. More than $5 million came from the Naval Air Systems Command, an agency overseen by Weldon's subcommittee.\nGrimes said that despite a lack of Washington experience, she has skills for lobbying. \"It's all about networking and follow-up\", she said. \"My clients like my company, and that has nothing to do with Curt.\"\nAn additional lobbyist Stefanie Reiser worked from January 2000 to late 2005 for Weldon, handling fund-raising duties for Weldon's campaign committee and for his political action committee, Committee for a United Republican Team (CURT PAC). She earned $54,659 as a fundraiser for Weldon's campaign committee, and was paid at least $90,000 by CURT PAC for fundraising and reimbursements for travel, lodging and office supplies.\nPrior to working for Weldon, Reiser was a lobbyist for Chambers Associates and served as former California Governor Pete Wilson's representative in Washington. She registered as a lobbyist for Novavax, Inc., a company seeking federal funding for a vaccine, on November 13, 2001; the company paid her $20,000. On December 6, 2001, Weldon and three other members of Congress held a briefing in which they and researchers from Novavax spoke of the need for a vaccine similar to the one Novavax was working on. On December 24, 2001, Reiser donated $250 to Curt PAC, describing herself as \"Self-employed/political fundraiser\".\nUse of campaign funds.\nBetween 1998 and 2006, Weldon spent about $80,000 of campaign treasury funds on restaurant meals. During the same period, Weldon also spent about $30,000 of campaign funds on hotels. He also spent $1,698 for a personal computer, delivered to his home; $4,618 for landscaping, paid to a company owned by a campaign contributor; and $13,000 in unitemized personal reimbursements during that period.\nCongressional ethics rules say that campaign funds should be used for \"bona fide campaign or political purposes\". Weldon's attorney, William B. Canfield, said that ethics rules are \"entirely amorphous\", and that \"you may think it's a big loophole, but he's allowed to spend money that way.\"\nConviction of former aide.\nIn December 2007, a former Weldon aide pleaded guilty for failing to report $19,000 in income that his wife made for doing work for a nonprofit company tied to Weldon.\nPost-Congressional career.\nAfter his election defeat in November 2006, Weldon joined Defense Solutions, headquartered in Exton, Pennsylvania, as the company's chief strategic officer.\nAdditionally, Weldon joined the advisory board of Novo Energies Corporation, an alternative energy company converting used tires and plastic into energy.\nIn a 2025 interview with Tucker Carlson, Weldon alleged that the World Trade Center 7, which collapsed during the September 11 attacks, was destroyed as the result of a controlled demolition, and that the Bush administration had covered up the government's role in the September 11th attacks. Weldon further claimed that the Bush administration had ordered the FBI to raid his daughter's home in retaliation for Weldon claiming the government had foreknowledge of 9/11. Senator Ron Johnson endorsed Weldon's claims and called for a new congressional commission on 9/11 which would involve Weldon.\n2025 Tucker Carlson/Weldon Interview"}
{"id": "731577", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731577", "title": "Baron Mackay of Clashfern", "text": ""}
{"id": "731580", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731580", "title": "Baron Forte", "text": ""}
{"id": "731581", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731581", "title": "Lord Forte", "text": ""}
{"id": "731582", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731582", "title": "Cabaret voltaire zurich", "text": ""}
{"id": "731583", "revid": "22132037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731583", "title": "Lord Hanson", "text": "Lord Hanson may refer to:"}
{"id": "731584", "revid": "38934791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731584", "title": "Baron Hanson", "text": ""}
{"id": "731585", "revid": "50942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731585", "title": "Fully-automatic transmission", "text": ""}
{"id": "731591", "revid": "36449898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731591", "title": "Heather Langenkamp", "text": "Heather Elizabeth Langenkamp (born July 17, 1964) is an American actress, filmmaker, businesswoman, and radio personality. An influential figure in horror films, Langenkamp is best known for her pioneering role as the resourceful heroine Nancy Thompson in the \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" franchise. \nBorn in Tulsa, Oklahoma, Langenkamp began her acting career after being cast as an extra in Francis Ford Coppola's drama films \"The Outsiders\" (1983) and \"Rumble Fish\" (1983). While studying at Stanford University, Langenkamp got cast as a pregnant teenager in the drama film \"Nickel Mountain\" (1984) before her breakthrough role as Nancy in Wes Craven's slasher film \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" (1984). \nLangenkamp reprised her role as Nancy in Chuck Russell's fantasy horror sequel ' (1987) before finding television success with a series regular role as Marie Lubbock in the ABC sitcom \"Just the Ten of Us\" (1988\u20131990). Subsequently, she portrayed a fictionalized version of herself in \"Wes Craven's New Nightmare\" and figure skater Nancy Kerrigan in the television film ' (1994) before taking an extensive acting hiatus. \nLangenkamp later executive produced and narrated the critically acclaimed documentary \"\" (2010). Langenkamp has since returned to acting, portraying a traumatized daughter in \"The Butterfly Room\" (2012), a Starfleet security officer in \"Star Trek Into Darkness\" (2013), an enigmatic hospice owner in Mike Flanagan's Netflix series \"The Midnight Club\" (2022), and a neighborhood gossip in Flanagan's \"The Life of Chuck\" (2024). She also made her directorial debut with the short film \"Washed Away\" (2019).\nLangenkamp co-founded the visual effects studio AFX Studio with her husband David LeRoy Anderson, where she has worked as a special make-up effects coordinator for films such as \"Dawn of the Dead\" (2004), \"Cinderella Man\" (2005), \"Evan Almighty\" (2007), and \"The Cabin in the Woods\" (2012). She has been a disc jockey for the Malibu radio station KBUU-LP since the 2010s. \nLife and career.\n1964\u20131983: Early years and acting beginnings.\nHeather Elizabeth Langenkamp was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Her mother, Mary Alice (n\u00e9e Myers), is an artist and an abstract expressionist painter. Her father, Robert Dobie Langenkamp, was a petroleum attorney and a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Energy. She later moved to Washington, D.C., where she attended the National Cathedral School for Girls, graduating in 1982. She then enrolled in Stanford University in 1982 and was a roommate of politician Susan Rice.\nAt age eighteen, Langenkamp worked for the \"Tulsa Tribune\" where she saw an advertisement looking for extras for Francis Ford Coppola's \"The Outsiders\" in the summer of 1982. Auditions occurred at a nearby elementary school where the casting director took a Polaroid of her; Langenkamp got a call back to appear in a high school scene, in which she had to wear attire based on 1950s fashion. Coppola was shooting another film in Tulsa the same summer, \"Rumble Fish\", after \"The Outsiders\"; Langenkamp's friend got a phone call to appear in a street scene, and her friend's mother felt more comfortable with Langenkamp going with her to the set at night. The casting director allowed her to join and gave dialogue to Langenkamp\u2014in which she did several takes of her saying dialogue to Matt Dillon's character; \"The Outsiders\" and \"Rumble Fish\" did not include her scenes but helped her get into the Screen Actors Guild. These positive experiences made Langenkamp feel like she should attempt to pursue an acting career in Hollywood. She took sporadic breaks from college to pursue it. \n1984\u20131987: Breakthrough with \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\".\nWhile studying at Stanford University, she would travel to Los Angeles on the weekends to pursue auditions, where she had her first official Hollywood audition for Drew Denbaum's independent drama film \"Nickel Mountain\" (1984). While auditioning, her rented car got hit by a runaway truck on Cahuenga Boulevard. Denbaum and the casting director helped Langenkamp during the ordeal. She bonded with them and got cast in the lead role of Callie Wells. She has expressed regret for doing the nude scene as she feared voicing her discomfort while filming\u2014as she was an up-and-coming actress. Her next role was Beth, the daughter of Joanne Woodward and Richard Crenna's characters in the CBS television film \"Passions\" (1984). The direction towards her character received praise. Langenkamp reflects, \"It was a complex part. Richard plays a philandering husband who has a son with his mistress, so my character was acting like a bridge between these two families.\"\nLangenkamp became aware of auditions for a horror film known as \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" (1984) at the end of 1983. Casting director Annette Benson was familiar to Langenkamp as she had brought her in to read for the lead role in \"Night of the Comet\" (1984). She auditioned for the highly sought after role of fifteen-year-old heroine Nancy. There were not enough chairs to accommodate the number of actresses auditioning. Craven stated that he wanted someone very \"non-Hollywood\" and someone who embodied the \"all-American, girl-next-door\" for the role and believed that Langenkamp had these qualities. Craven informed her that she got the part in January 1984. The film grossed $25.5 million at the United States box-office and was a critical success upon release. In 2021, the Library of Congress inducted \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" into the National Film Registry. \nFollowing\u00a0the success of \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" (1984), the people in Langenkamp's life told her she would regret starring in a slasher film at the beginning of her career, as it would affect her future acting jobs due to the genre having a stigma attached to it. She subsequently returned to college as she enjoyed the atmosphere on campus, but attempted to maintain a low profile by cutting her hair short and wearing glasses. However, people still recognized her in public. Langenkamp struggled with the sudden fame, as some of her peers tried to maintain close contact with her due to her success as an actress. In 2024, Langenkamp stated, \"I have to say, I did suffer that for a few years. But now, 40 years later, I\u2019m definitely very happy that I didn\u2019t listen to anyone.\u201d \nFollowing \"A Nightmare on Elm Street,\" Langenkamp was initially cast in smaller-scale roles on family-friendly television. In 1985, Langenkamp portrayed Hope Sherman in the NBC television pilot \"Suburban Beat\", the youngest of four housewives living in the fictitious Jericho Downs, who work together to solve crime. In a review for \"The New York Times\", John Corry wrote, \"Heather Langenkamp, as the youngest housewife, is particularly adorable, but since she's also amusing, the adorability isn't cloying.\" The pilot was unsold. The same year, Langenkamp got cast in the music video for ZZ Top's single \"Sleeping Bag\". Langenkamp later had roles in the \"ABC Afterschool Special\" episode \"Can a Guy Say No?\" and the Emmy Award-winning \"CBS Schoolbreak Special\" episode \"Have You Ever Tried Talking to Patty?\", and had a guest appearance on an episode of the television series \"Heart of the City\" (all in 1986). \nFollowing the drastic departure from the original storyline in the sequel ' (1985), Langenkamp felt the story of the characters from the original film was over. However, in 1986, Langenkamp received a telephone call from Wes Craven informing her that he was considering writing the script for ' (1987) and wanted to know if she would agree to sign on to the film if he included her character. She signed on to the production in September 1986. Langenkamp stated, \"I was really excited. Nancy was a real adult. She was a woman who was very serious about herself and her life. When she realizes that Freddy\u2019s back, she wastes no time in fighting back.\" Langenkamp described the \"Dream Warriors\" set as intense, attributing this to time constraints and Chuck Russell becoming the director, stating, \"With Chuck, the whole filmmaking process has been a bit more narrowed down and precise.\" However, she liked working with both Craven and Russell and experiencing contrasting directing styles. The film opened to box office success in 1987, grossing over $44 million. Later, she had a guest appearance as Tracy in the television series \"The New Adventures of Beans Baxter\" and Monica on the soap opera \"Hotel\" (both in 1987). \n1988\u20132005: Television success and acting hiatus.\nLangenkamp obtained further recognition when she portrayed lead character Marie Lubbock on the ABC television series \"Just the Ten of Us\", a spin-off of the popular ABC situation comedy \"Growing Pains\" (on which she guest-starred), from 1988 to 1990. Langenkamp worked with Craven again for a small cameo appearance as a victim in his supernatural slasher film \"Shocker\" (1989). Also in 1989, she graduated from Stanford with a Bachelor of Arts in English.\nLangenkamp portrayed the figure skater Nancy Kerrigan in the NBC television film \"Tonya &amp; Nancy: The Inside Story\", released in 1994, which focused on Tonya Harding's husband's attack. Also in 1994, Craven approached Langenkamp to star in a standalone film in the \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" franchise that he was writing. The film, set in the real world, would feature Langenkamp portraying a fictionalized version of herself. Langenkamp was hesitant to sign on to the production due to the premise and was unsure how the film would be received. However, she agreed after having conversations with Craven. On the film, Langenkamp stated \"It's a really interesting concept, and it's one of the only horror movies where the monster's really in the background, at least until the end. But it's all about our mentality about fear.\" \"Wes Craven's New Nightmare\" was released in 1994, and opened to critical praise, being cited as an influential \"metahorror\" film. Joe Leydon of \"Variety\" stated that she \"proves she is still one of cinema\u2019s most resourceful scream queens here.\" Langenkamp became pregnant with her daughter during the final stages of filming for \"New Nightmare\" and attests that after this production, she struggled to put in the effort required for a successful acting career while balancing family life, resulting in a hiatus in pursuing roles.\nLangenkamp starred in Robert Kurtzman's low-budget superhero film \"The Demolitionist\" (1995). In 1997, she portrayed housewife Lou Ann Solomon under the pursuit of shapeshifting aliens in an episode of the short-lived science fiction horror television series \"Perversions of Science\". She later starred in the direct-to-video film \"Fugitive Mind\" (1999). Langenkamp played Janet Thompson in an episode of \"JAG\" (2002). After her appearance on \"JAG\", she took an extensive break from acting to focus on her family.\nIn the early 2000s, Langenkamp and her second husband, David LeRoy Anderson, discussed launching a chewing gum business. They spent six months researching and developing. Malibu Gum Factory launched in February 2001 with 30,000 packs of peppermint-flavored chewing gum featuring a collectible trading card and water safety tips. Rather than featuring photographs of celebrities, they wanted the cards to feature regular people of Malibu, which proved popular with residents.\nLangenkamp reunited with Wes Craven for a small role as a reporter in the Dimension Films werewolf horror comedy film \"Cursed\" (2005), which would be her only film role in the 2000s. The film had a troubled production, and Langenkamp's scenes were deleted from the final version of the film. \n2010\u20132021: Return and expansion.\nOn her post-\"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" career: \u201dWomen my age, you go through this decade of getting offered terrible, boring roles that don\u2019t have anything to do with the plot. You\u2019re just an accoutrement. It\u2019s been such a wasteland for me.\u201d In an effort to restart her acting career, Langenkamp executive-produced, starred in, and narrated the documentary film \"\" (2010). Her follow-up effort was another documentary film that she executive-produced and starred in, \"I Am Nancy\" (2011), which focuses on the fandom of Nancy and showcases the importance of horror heroines.\nLangenkamp's first acting role in a decade was in Jonathan Zarantonello's horror film \"The Butterfly Room\" (2012) as the daughter of Barbara Steele's character. Langenkamp stated, \"It was the first role I\u2019d been offered in many years that actually had substance.\" However, she was worried the film would be little-seen like her prior film efforts. Producer Ethan Wiley was initially hesitant to cast her due to her extensive break from acting, but was impressed by her performance. Film critic Kim Newman, writing for \"Screen International\", singled Langenkamp out in his review, \"Langenkamp\u2014little-seen since her interesting turn in Wes Craven\u2019s\u00a0\"New Nightmare\"\u2014is outstanding.\" Langenkamp had a brief cameo appearance in Ryan Murphy's \"\" (2014) episode \"Tupperware Party Massacre\".\nIn 2015, Langenkamp portrayed Sharon Monroe in four episodes of the drama series \"The Bay\", and narrated the short horror film \"Vault of the Macabre II\". In 2016, she starred in the horror drama film \"Home\". She has a cameo appearance in the horror sequel film \"\". Also that year, she portrayed the adult version of the \"final girl\" Donna Boone in the Syfy television horror film \"Truth or Dare\", guiding a group of teenagers with their battle with a deadly spirit that left her physically scarred several years prior.\nLangenkamp started the 2020s with roles in voice acting, providing a voice role in an episode of the Cartoon Network adult animated horror comedy \"JJ Villard's Fairy Tales\" (2020) and the voices of Dazzle Feather, Mayflower, and a confused mother in the animated adventure film \"\" (2021).\n2022\u2013present: Acting resurgence.\nOn February 1, 2021, reports confirmed Langenkamp as being a cast member in Mike Flanagan and Leah Fong's 10-episode Netflix horror mystery-thriller series \"The Midnight Club\" (2022); an adaptation of Christopher Pike's 1994 novel of the same name as well as various other Pike novels. Langenkamp portrays Dr. Georgina Stanton, an enigmatic doctor who runs Brightcliffe Hospice, the primary setting of the series. The series premiered on October 7, 2022. \nLangenkamp felt a personal connection to the role, stating \"It was really exciting to me. You might know I lost my own son to brain cancer four years ago, and when I read the sides for the audition, I literally burst into tears because I really felt like it was a ghost story of my very own\u2014like something very supernatural was happening that I was being asked to play this role.\" While intended to have multiple seasons, Netflix ultimately canceled it in December.\nIn 2024, Langenkamp had a supporting role as Ellenor in Spider One's horror film \"Little Bites\", which was executive produced by Cher, followed by the crime film \"Plea\". Speaking of her role of Ellenor: \"I really responded to the way my character, Ellenor, thrusts Spider\u2019s terrifying story in a new direction. I love that I get to deliver a kind of wisdom that older women often carry with them and are mysteriously duty-bound to pass along.\" Flanagan later cast Langenkamp in the supporting role of Vera in his science fiction drama film \"The Life of Chuck\" (2025), based on the 2020 Stephen King novella of the same name. \"The Life of Chuck\" was released theatrically nationwide in the United States by Neon on June 13, 2025. \nLangenkamp is set to star in the upcoming horror films \"Last Chance Motel\" and \"Dirt..\"\nPersonal life.\nLangenkamp has maintained a close friendship with \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" costars Amanda Wyss and Robert Englund. Langenkamp has also developed friendships with actresses Lisa Wilcox and Tuesday Knight, who starred in additional \"A Nightmare on Elm Street\" sequels, through frequent appearances with them at fan conventions. Langenkamp states, \"This group of \"Nightmare\" actors, we\u2019ve been lucky that we\u2019ve been thrown together a lot \u2014 going around the country to these conventions. And so, our friendships have really blossomed.\"\nIn the early 1990s, Langenkamp was informed that a stalker began making threats to her and people involved with \"Just the Ten of Us\". The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) cautioned Langenkamp to be alert with her surroundings.\nLangenkamp was married to musician Alan Pasqua from 1984 until 1987. She met make-up artist David LeRoy Anderson at a wrap party for the 1988 film \"The Serpent and the Rainbow\". They wed in 1990, in which Charlie Sheen acted as best man. Anderson and Langenkamp have two children: Daniel \"Atticus\" Anderson, who died in 2018 of brain tumor complications at age 26, and daughter Isabelle Anderson."}
{"id": "731595", "revid": "1669452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731595", "title": "Mazda 1200", "text": ""}
{"id": "731596", "revid": "1669452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731596", "title": "Mazda 1500", "text": ""}
{"id": "731597", "revid": "1669452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731597", "title": "Mazda 1800", "text": ""}
{"id": "731599", "revid": "30529645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731599", "title": "Ice Climbers", "text": ""}
{"id": "731600", "revid": "1669452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731600", "title": "Mazda R100", "text": ""}
{"id": "731602", "revid": "10512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731602", "title": "Archduke Ferdinand Maximilian", "text": ""}
{"id": "731604", "revid": "8373762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731604", "title": "Mazda 818", "text": ""}
{"id": "731606", "revid": "26906394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731606", "title": "Greasy", "text": "Greasy may refer to:"}
{"id": "731608", "revid": "8373762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731608", "title": "Mazda Capella", "text": "The Mazda Capella, also known as the 626 in Europe, North America and Southeast Asia, is a mid-size car that was manufactured by Mazda from 1970 until 2002. Sold in the Japanese domestic market under the Capella name, the vehicle was also commonly known in other major markets as the Mazda 626. Ford, Mazda's partner at the time, also used the Capella platform to create the Ford Telstar and Ford Probe. 4,345,279 of the 626 and Telstar models were sold worldwide.\nDesigned to compete against Japanese mid-size stalwarts such as the Honda Accord, Toyota Corona, and Nissan Bluebird, the Capella was succeeded by the Mazda6 (Atenza) in 2002.\nThe car was named after Capella, the brightest star in the constellation Auriga, the sixth-brightest in the night sky and the third-brightest in the northern celestial hemisphere, after Arcturus and Vega.\nFirst generation (1970\u20131978).\nThe first Capella was introduced in May 1970 and lasted until 1978, and was introduced as an intermediate alternative to the smaller Mazda Familia and the larger Mazda Luce. It was powered by four-cylinder SOHC valve engines displacing either 1.5 or 1.6\u00a0litres. Output is , respectively; and of torque for the larger displacement version. The first models all had rectangular headlights, while the rotary-engined models received round twin headlamps beginning in October 1971. From 1972 all models received the double headlamps. The taillight design was changed repeatedly over the production run. This generation was sold in export markets as the Mazda 616 in sedan and, for some markets, coup\u00e9 configurations. There was also a Mazda 618 briefly sold in the United States.\nAn optional Mazda Wankel engine was offered and known as the Capella Rotary in Japan or the Mazda RX-2 for export. In addition to the 1.6, a Capella 1500 was added in October 1970. The Capella received a fairly thorough facelift in February 1974. This facelift included a restyled front end (lengthened by 110\u00a0mm) and a redesigned dashboard. This model received an optional 1.8-litre (1769\u00a0cc) engine for some markets and in Japan it was sold with the \"AP\" suffix, for \"Anti-Pollution\". The 1500 was no longer available. The facelift rotary version received the CB12S chassis code rather than S122A.\nIn Japan, the installation of a rotary engine gave Japanese buyers a financial advantage when it came time to pay the annual road tax in that they bought a car that was more powerful than a traditional inline engine, but without having the penalty for having an engine in the higher 1.5-litre tax bracket. This was the only generation that had the rotary engine offered.\nThe RX-2 was assembled under contract in New Zealand from 1972 for Mazda New Zealand by Motor Industries International in Otahuhu, South Auckland. It was the first and only rotary-engined car ever to be assembled in the country and was made as both a sedan, with manual or automatic transmission and a manual-only coup\u00e9. The 616 was also built but was much less popular. In South Africa, where the Capella was assembled first by Illings and then by Sigma, it was available with the 1600 or 1800 reciprocal engines as well as the rotary. The rotary claimed SAE in South Africa. The facelift version arrived two years late there, in mid-1976. At the end of that year, the Capella RS was introduced\u2014this lowered version with Rostyle wheels was limited to 20 cars per month. South African production of the Capella Rotary continued into 1979, since Sigma had taken the decision not to build the second-generation Capella there but to focus on the Colt Galant instead.\nThe Mazda 616 was a major component of Mazda's United States expansion in 1971, having been preceded by its rotary brother, the RX-2, the previous year. It featured the 1.6-litre (1586\u00a0cc) engine, which was later used in the 808. The American Capella was updated and renamed the next year: the 1972 Mazda 618 had a larger 1.8-litre (1796\u00a0cc) \"VB\" engine which was only used in the US and not related to the similarly sized \"VC\" used in the rest of the world. Lasting just one year, the 618 nameplate was not used again in the United States and the only federalized version of the Capella for 1973 was the RX-2.\nSecond generation (CB; 1978\u20131982).\nThe second-generation rear-wheel drive Capella was available between October 1977 and 1982, in both sedan and coup\u00e9 forms. It was marketed in export markets as the \"626\", with the exception of the United Kingdom, where it was marketed as the Mazda Montrose\"', the name honoring the local Mazda dealership in Montrose. The Montrose was offered as an alternative to the Ford Cortina, which was popular at the time. It was released in 1978, although the model's introduction to most markets was delayed until 1979. Early models had two slightly different frontal treatments. Models equipped with 1.6 or 1.8-litre engines came with a more pronounced sloping grille and models with the 2-litre engine came with a more flush grille. The 626 received a front and rear facelift in September 1980 but this model was not marketed in the UK, where the Montrose's styling remained unchanged. It was, however, offered in the rest of Europe and this and later generations were particularly popular in Germany. This Capella achieved an aerodynamic Cx value of 0.38.\nThe coup\u00e9 and sedan were mechanically identical, with front MacPherson struts and a coil sprung solid axle at the back mounted on four links with a transverse Panhard rod providing addition location. Either a five-speed manual or three-speed automatic transmission and recirculating ball steering completed the mechanical specification. The CB also featured a split-folding rear seat. In Japan, the Capella came with 1.6-, 1.8-, or 2.0-litre engines (the 2.0 only being introduced in the end of March 1979). All had twin-barrel carburettors and produced 90, 100, and 110\u00a0PS JIS (66, 74, or 81\u00a0kW). The higher equipped versions received the larger US bumpers and were thus somewhat longer overall.\nThe Mazda 626 badge was used for the first time in some markets, replacing the earlier \"616\". The 626 was typically fitted with the 1.6- or 2.0-litre version of the Mazda F/MA, which produced from , though only the 2.0-litre was available in the United States. The 626 was facelifted in November 1980, with the update bringing flush-fitting headlamps and a new grille insert. Other changes included redesigned tail-lights, a revised dash, new trim and improved dynamics. The grille was lengthened slightly to remove the body-coloured gap between the headlamps and grille on the original model. It was also reduced in height so that the grille and headlamps formed a single \"band\" across the front-end.\nIn the United States, the facelift appeared for the 1981 model year and meant more black trim (including the bumpers) and a new grille and headlights. The engine also received new emissions equipment, consisting of two catalytic converters, an air pump, and an air control valve, which robbed the 2.0 four of some power. Also new for 1981 was the \"Luxury\" model, which featured ample equipment. The entire range received softer suspension settings for increased comfort, but these were tightened up again during the 1982 model year.\nSedans of this generation were also assembled in New Zealand in three versions \u2013 four-speed manual base, three-speed automatic mid range and five-speed manual \"Limited.\" Facelift models were much the same but some had velour upholstery and tinted glass. In 1982, Mazda New Zealand offered a locally assembled limited edition model called the Anniversary to mark 10 years of local build. Based on the Limited, this model had larger US-style bumpers, additional driving lights in the grille, a standard AM radio (this was a year before FM stereo radio was introduced in NZ) plus alloy wheels and unique velour upholstery. This was also the first locally built Mazda to have a laminated windscreen as standard.\nIn Australia, the CB series was launched in December 1978. It was available as a four-door sedan in three trim levels (Standard, Deluxe and Super Deluxe) and as a two-door Super Deluxe hardtop. The engine was the 2.0-litre inline-four engine available with three transmissions (four-speed and five-speed manual or three-speed automatic). The Deluxe model added cloth-inserted seats, push button radio, bumper rubber inserts, rubber body side protection mouldings, intermittent wipers, chrome wheel rings, map reading lights, and seat back map pockets. The Super Deluxe added halogen headlamps, window tint, FM radio, bumper overriders, and electronic safety check panel. For the facelift model from 1980 in Australia, the base \"Standard\" model was renamed \"Special\", while the sedan and hardtop Super Deluxe trims each received unique (to trim level and body variant) wheel trims. A rear folding armrest, central locking and sunroof were added to the Super Deluxe sedan. Another minor update in 1981 changed the wheel designs for the Super Deluxe.\nThird generation (GC; 1982\u20131987).\nIn September 1982, the third-generation Capella was released using the new front-wheel-drive Mazda GC platform. As before, the international version was named the 626, with this version being named \"Import Car of the Year\" by \"Motor Trend\" magazine, the Car of the Year Japan award in 1982, and Car of the Year by \"Wheels\" magazine for 1983. It came in fifth in the 1984 European Car of the Year, the highest finish up to that date for a Japanese car. It immediately sold very well across Europe.\nSedan and coup\u00e9 bodystyles were offered as before, with \u2013 due to demand \u2013 a five-door hatchback variant added. Inline-four engines displacing 1.6, 1.8, and 2.0\u00a0litres were offered, with the 2.0-litre also available with a turbo and . In September 1983 a 2.0-litre diesel was added to the lineup. In other regions including Finland, the 626 offered with a twin barrel carburetor. The Swiss market only received a 2-litre version, with the lower power a result of different emissions standards. In addition to the commonly seen model, there was also a short-nosed version with smaller headlamps and a larger grille, which necessitated a different bonnet as well. This model was sold in Southeast Asia and Oceania and possibly other markets including the GCC countries. A dealer optional model with the front end and pop-up headlights from the Mazda 929/Cosmo (HB) was also available to special customers in Indonesia.\nThe rear suspension was now independent, and though the wheelbase remained the same as the previous model, it was an entirely different car. A SOHC non-turbo diesel 2.0-litre \"RF\" engine was made available; twenty examples were imported officially into Australia from 1983 to 1987. The diesel also benefitted from ventilated brakes up front and a variable ratio steering rack, to minimize the effects of the (slight) additional weight. European markets also received a 1.6-litre \"F6\" engine. The placement of the power window controls was on the centre console, ahead of the gear shift/automatic transmission gear selector, as opposed to the traditional installation of the window switches on the respective doors.\nFord Asia Pacific (FASPAC) also sold the 626 as the Ford Telstar from 1983 (complete with slightly different styling and dashboard) in place of the European-sourced Ford Sierra, although Ford New Zealand did offer the Sierra wagon after the long best-selling Cortina estate car was discontinued, on account of the Mazda's lack of an equivalent model. Available in both 1.6- and 2.0-litre versions, the Sierra wagon was released in May 1984.\nMazda New Zealand initially assembled 626 \"short nose\" 1.8-litre four-door sedan and a \"long nose\" 2.0-litre five-door model with a higher trim level including a digital instrument panel. A small number of two-door coup\u00e9s were imported built-up from Japan. Laminated windscreens were now standard. A midlife facelift for the 1985 model year brought a completely new dashboard with orange digital LCD electronic displays in top models (in place of the earlier luminescent green) and the sedan now had the long nose and 2.0-litre engine. Ford's Telstar received similar changes.\nThe new 2.0-litre \"FE\" engine was up to for the North American market, where the car received larger bumpers and sealed-beam headlights as per federal regulations. A 626 \"GT\" (also called the \"Turbo\" in Canada) was introduced in 1986 using the and \"FET\" engine. The rest of the line got a new front clip with dual (rather than quad) headlights and an entirely new interior, and fuel injection on the base engine meant . A new four-speed automatic, some trim changes, and five new colours were introduced for 1987, the last model year of this series.\nThe GC, locally assembled by Sigma, was released in South Africa in 1983. Due to a local content programme then in force, a facelifted version continued in production by Samcor until 1993. This featured the front end of the GD coup\u00e9, but with amber lens indicators and a blanked-off grille, as well as the rear lights from the Ford Telstar, which was not sold locally, Ford still offering the Sierra. The GD was not sold in South Africa, although it was assembled in neighbouring Zimbabwe by Willowvale Motor Industries in both sedan and wagon versions. The 626 L entered production in Colombia with CCA (Compa\u00f1\u00eda Colombiana Automotriz) in May 1984, as a four-door sedan equipped with the 92\u00a0PS 1.8-litre engine. The LX (five-door) and GLX (coup\u00e9) versions followed in 1985, with the GLX coup\u00e9 receiving the 102\u00a0PS 2.0-litre engine and more luxurious equipment including power steering and windows, as well as digital instrumentation. In the first quarter of 1986 the range was facelifted: the taillights were revised and the hatchback and coup\u00e9 received new, larger bumpers. The L (sedan) was the only model left with the 1.8 engine as the LX (hatchback) was now a 2-litre, closer to the coup\u00e9 in its specifications. The GC-series continued to be available until the beginning of 1988, when the next generation 626 replaced it.\nFourth generation (GD/GV; 1987\u20131992).\nThe fourth-generation Capella was released in May 1987. It used the updated GD platform and some versions remained in production in Japan until 1996. Engines were new, though they still emphasized torque rather than outright power. Most of the world received 1.6, 1.8, 2.0, and 2.2 (non-turbo) engines. The GT model had a 2.0-litre FE-DOHC engine that produced 148 (without a catalytic converter) or 140\u00a0PS (with a catalytic converter). Some models were available with a new 2.0 diesel \"RF-CX\" engine, notable for its use of a pressure wave supercharger (Comprex), that previously could be found in the Mazda Bongo commercial. Diesel models were also exported to Europe, usually with the naturally aspirated engine. By 1990, the 1.6 had been discontinued in most markets, although JDM models intended for commercial use still used the little B6 engine.\nThe 626 was released in the US for the 1988 model year in three trims: DX, LX, and Turbo. Standard equipment included velour upholstery with front bucket seats, Mazda's Twin Trapezoidal Link independent rear suspension, and a fuel injected 2.2-litre SOHC 4-cylinder motor. The LX trim offered power door locks, mirrors and windows, cruise control, oscillating vents, and an upgraded sound system with a subwoofer among other things. The Turbo was equipped in similar fashion to the LX, adding an intercooler turbocharger system, adjustable dampening, and 15-inch alloy wheels.\nThe 626/Capella was available globally as a sedan, station wagon (estate), five-door hatchback, and as a coup\u00e9 \u2013 although the coup\u00e9 was renamed MX-6 for the North American and Australian markets, and the wagon was not offered in North America. In Japan, the five-door was sold as the \"Capella CG\" (for \"City Gear\") and the coup\u00e9 as the \"Capella C2\" (\"Composite Coup\u00e9\"). There was also a four-door hardtop sedan with unique bodywork, sold only in Japan, called the Mazda Persona.\nThe station wagon version, intended as a true load carrier, was introduced in the northern-hemisphere spring of 1988 on a slightly modified platform (called the GV). The station wagon also had a seven-seat option in some markets, only available on the front-wheel drive model. Five-speed manuals and four-speed automatics were offered, with a few export markets also receiving a four-speed manual. Four-wheel drive was introduced in July 1987 for some versions, although it was never made available in the coup\u00e9 nor in the North American market. The four-wheel drive system featured a central differential as well as a viscous limited-slip differential at the rear axle. Another new option was 4-wheel-steering, introduced in February 1988, with Mazda's system being electronic and more complex than the 4WS system introduced by Honda on their 1988 Prelude. This system was only available in the five-door and the coup\u00e9. While not particularly successful in the marketplace, Japanese consumers could choose this option for longer than could export customers. All of the body styles also had optional ABS. The final facelift made a driver's side airbag an option for the buyer.\nThe 626 line was facelifted for 1990, although mainstream Japanese production ended in 1991. Ford kept building a manual-only GD series sedan, called the Telstar Classic, aimed at fleet customers. The Capella station wagon was still available up until November 1997 (1996 in export markets). As part of a Japanese trend at the time, it was also developed into an \"RV\", a sporting model with off-road pretensions. The Capella Van version, for commercial use only, actually continued in production until April 1999. It was equipped with the 1.6-litre B6 engine or the naturally aspirated diesel. When the new CG Capella was introduced in August 1994, the \"Capella Cargo\" received a facelift with a bigger grille and headlights and its name was changed to \"Capella Wagon\". The last addition to the Japanese lineup was a two-wheel-drive version of the 2.0 GT engine which arrived in June 1996.\nUK trim levels were LX (1.8-litre 8v), GLX (1.8-litre 8v /2.0-litre 12v), GLX Executive (2.0-litre 12v) and GT (2.0-litre 16v) GLX Executive 4x4 (2.2-litre 12v) Some early 2.0GT models had four-wheel steering. There was also an estate model with either the 2.0-litre engine in GLX or GT trim, or the GLX Executive 4x4 2.2. The 2.0GT was also available in two-door coupe form. Most European markets received similar lineups, albeit with diesel options in many countries.\nThe MX-6 was built in Michigan alongside its platform-mate, the Ford Probe at AutoAlliance International, while North American market 626s were still imported from Japan. 626 hatchbacks disappeared after 1991 from the US Mazda model range. The base model now used Mazda's , 2.2-litre 3-valve SOHC \"F2\" producing just shy of the old turbocharged engine, and the new turbo was up to . The 1988 introduction of four-wheel steering to the 626 Turbo liftback, along with Honda's Prelude 4WS, marked the first 4WS systems for the US market. It was later also made available to the MX-6. In 1990, the 626 gained motorized seat belts for the US market only. Consumer response was strong.\nAs for the previous generation, Colombian-built versions were the L (sedan), LX (liftback), and GLX (coup\u00e9). They entered local production in the first half of 1988. The L used the 1.8 with 90\u00a0PS while the LX and GLX received the 102\u00a0PS two-litre - both engines still carburetted, with automatic chokes. This generation is known as \"Asahi\" in Colombia. The gearing was shorter than for the GC versions, to better suit the mountainous nature of the country.\nMazda New Zealand again assembled a range of four-door sedan and five-door hatchback models, supplemented by the newly available wagon, and imported the four-door sedan in GT Spec with 2.0-litre FE-DOHC. The imported coupe and top five-door version, both with electronically controlled rear-wheel steering. Ford New Zealand's Telstar line was similar, including the wagon and imported rear-wheel steering models (TBC, 4WS was never on the Telstar), but without the coupe. The wagon's arrival enabled Ford to drop the UK-sourced Sierra wagon from local assembly, simplifying model sourcing. The NZ-specification cars, though imported CKD, shared much of their specifications with uncatalyzed European models including the modified tail lamp assemblies with the mandatory-for-Europe fog light lenses though the bulbs and wiring were not included. This and later generations would also be imported used from Japan in later years, greatly widening the choice of models and specifications available in this market.\nAfter the introduction of the next generation 626 (a rebadged Mazda Cronos), the station wagon continued to be assembled (alongside its slightly lower priced sister, the Telstar GL). Only a 2.0-litre GLX was offered, with the uncatalyzed 12-valve engine.\nFifth generation (1992\u20131997).\nInternational (GE; 1992\u20131997).\nFor the fifth generation, GE series sedan and hatchback, the Capella name was dropped\u2014although export markets retained the 626 title. In this generation, there was no station wagon version in this line-up. Its nameplate replacements, the Mazda Cronos (sedan) and \u025b\u0303fini MS-6 (hatchback) that launched in November 1991 were pitched to Japanese customers instead. Both were slightly narrower than the export 626 saloons and hatchbacks to meet Japanese tax restrictions. Built on the GE platform, the hatchback-only MS-6 was launched under the \u025b\u0303fini brand, as a separate car from the sedan-only Cronos, as Mazda was at the beginning of an ambitious five-brand expansion plan of doubling sales. Including the badge-engineered Ford Telstar (sold at Japanese Ford dealerships called Autorama), the Mazda MX-6 coupe, and the Autozam Clef, a total of five cars were spawned off the same platform, launched under four different brands in Japan over a two-year period.\nAll of these models ended their production run prematurely, most likely due to the difficulties involved in promoting so many new nameplates as the Japanese economy began to feel the effects of the recession resulting from the Japanese asset price bubble from 1985 to 1991. While the MS-6 shared the Cronos GE platform, it was marketed as the more sporty of the two. The Capella badge lived on with the wagon/van versions on the previous GV series until 1999. Until 1989, Japanese car taxation used a car's width as a key determinant. The Cronos and its siblings all exceed the critical level in width. The series GE platform shared the same width dimension as the luxury brand \u025b\u0303fini MS-8 and \u025b\u0303fini MS-6, sharing the 2.5-litre V6. Moving in accord with early-1990s zeitgeist, Mazda considered width a key factor in the Cronos' sales failure, and proceeded to create a narrower stopgap model from the CG platform. This car was introduced in 1994 as the new CG series Capella sedan.\nNonetheless, the GE Cronos and MS-6 continued to be sold as the Mazda 626 in nearly all export markets. European sales of the new 626 began in January 1992. The 626 was again \"Wheels\" magazine's Car of the Year for a second time in 1992.\nThe European (E-spec) and Asian (JDM) models had many differences versus the North American (A-spec) models. These include: raised turn signal side markers vs the A-Spec flush mounted side markers, small fog lights with silver bezels vs the A-Spec full fitting fog lights, different interior cloth patterns, projector headlamps (glass lenses), a 1.8-litre FP engine, and a hatchback model. Europe also received a diesel-engined version, using the \"Comprex\" pressure-wave supercharged RF engine seen in the previous generation JDM Capella. Power in Europe is ECE at 4000\u00a0rpm, while the Japanese model claims JIS at the same engine speed. European models were also available in a model with four-wheel steering until a mid-1994 lineup adjustment. This was only offered in the hatchback with the 2.5-litre V6 and a manual transmission and not many were sold.\nFor the first time for a Mazda, the 626 began manufacturing in the US at Flat Rock, Michigan on 1 September 1992 for the 1993 model year. The car was originally known as the \"626 Cronos\" in Canada, but dropped the Cronos for the 1996 model year. Mazda's 2.5-litre V6 engine debuted to rave reviews. Though the 626's manual transmission was highly regarded, U.S.-built four-cylinder 626s from 1994 onwards used the widely used Ford CD4E automatic transmission (designated by Mazda as LA4A-EL), which replaced the 1993 model's Japanese sourced transmission, which continued on in the V6 model. The CD4E was manufactured in Batavia, Ohio under ZF Batavia, a joint venture between Ford and ZF Friedrichshafen AG. In service in the Mazda 626, the transmission was reputed to have a higher failure rate than in other applications. It is widely known to transmission specialists that the CD4E overheats due to a poorly designed valve body and torque converter. Mazda issued relevant Technical Service Bulletins (0400502, 01598, 003/97K, 006/95) regarding the transmission and torque converter. The CD4E was produced until 2008 at Batavia and was never officially recalled in any application. In 1994, a passenger side airbag was added, whilst some models of the 1994 and 1995 Mazda 626 2.0L automatics were outfitted with Ford's EEC-IV diagnostic system. In North America, the V6 spread to the \"LX\" trim in addition to the leather \"ES\" trim. New for 1996 and 1997 models were a redesigned hood (raised centre portion), chrome grille fairing (attached to the hood), and the introduction of the on Board Diagnostics II revision (OBD-II).\nIn Colombia the car was named 626 Matsuri (Japanese for \"holiday\") to differentiate from the past version that was sold at the same time.\nMazda New Zealand assembled this generation for four years with few changes. Ford's variants (since 1987 all built in the same Ford-Mazda joint venture Vehicle Assemblers of New Zealand (VANZ) factory in Wiri, South Auckland) had minor styling and equipment differences (the top Telstar hatchback had an electric sunroof) and anti-lock brakes were now standard on some models, for which factory engineers had to build a special test rig at the end of the assembly line. These were also the first 626/Telstar models to have factory fitted air conditioning, though only standard on the top Limited (626) and TX5 XRi (Telstar) five-door hatchbacks.\nJapan (CG; 1994\u20131997).\nSince 1991, the Capella label had only been used for the lingering GV series wagon and van as a result of Mazda's attempt at brand diversification. This changed when the new, more compact CG series Capella launched in August 1994. It was built on the CG platform designed for the upscale Mazda Lantis and Eunos 500. This vehicle lasted only until 1997, and the Capella name returned to the G platform at this time. Available only with a four-door saloon bodywork, it received 1.8- or 2.0-litre inline-four engines.\nThe slightly reduced width dimension of this series was due to the fact that the Japanese Government taxes exterior dimensions and engine displacement that exceed regulations. This factor is a key component in all vehicles sold in Japan, and this generation vehicle was introduced so as to encourage sales of the Capella against rival Japanese products.\nAnother factor was that Japan was entering an economic recession due to the effects of the \"bubble economy\", and all Japanese industries were experiencing a decline in manufactured products.\nThe sporting models of previous Capellas were now sold under other nameplates, and the CG received in 1.8 form and in the 2.0-litre. Four-wheel drive was available with the larger engine only. Equipment levels were Li-S, Li, and Gi for the 1.8. The 2.0 was sold as the Zi or as the Fi when equipped with four-wheel drive. In August 1997, the Capella was replaced by the new GF model, which was the same as the 626 outside of North America.\nSixth generation (1997\u20132002).\nInternational (GF, GW; 1997\u20132002).\n1997 brought the sixth-generation Capella, now on the GF platform. The Mazda Cronos name was retired and the Capella, 626, and Telstar once again shared a common platform. All-wheel drive was optional in Japan. The hatchback, a popular variant in Australasia and Europe, was not sold in Japan. North American 626's were again built by AutoAlliance International in Flat Rock, Michigan, and had an entirely different body and differing engine options from 626's sold in the rest of the world. Beside sedan and hatchback styles, the station wagon style was returned in the generation. Once again, the station wagon version used a slightly modified, carryover platform (now called GW, released in 1998). The wheelbase was longer than the sedan, and a V6 engine was offered. This time though, the bodywork was the same, minimizing confusion for buyers.\nBy now, Ford had decided to reintroduce European models in Australasia so the Mondeo replaced the Telstar in most markets though the latter was still sold in Japan. The Capella was lightly updated in 1999 with a new interior and exterior, cabin air filtration, an available turbo-diesel engine, a new \"Activematic\" manually operated automatic transmission, and available EBD and DSC.\nThe Mazda 626 GLX is a European and Asian only trim level of the Mazda 626 not produced or sold in North America. It is Japanese-made, with a 2.0-litre four-cylinder DOHC-engine (FS) and a four-speed automatic transmission, which produces at 6,000\u00a0rpm and 133\u00a0lb\u00b7ft (180 N\u00b7m) at 4,000\u00a0rpm. The 2.0-litre turbo-diesel version was added to European market versions beginning in fall of 1998. The European trim levels are LXI, GXI, GSI, GXI SPORT, Atlantis, GXI SE, GSI SE. The European 626 was available with two different 2.0 engines, a 115 PS engine was available from 1998 to 2002 in all models except for the GSI SE and Sport models, which have the 136\u00a0PS FS engine.\nIn 2000, Mazda built the 626 MPS (Mazda Performance Series) concept sedan model. It debuted at the 2000 Geneva Motor Show as a concept car and only a few were ever produced. It would have included a new 2.5L 280 horsepower twin turbo redesign of the KL-ZE engine mated with a 5-speed manual transmission. However, the 626 MPS was never realized as the next generation of the 626, with the Mazda 6 MPS being introduced instead.\nNorth America (1997\u20132002).\nThe North American market 626, introduced in 1997 for the 1998 model year was different from those sold in other countries. The Michigan-built 626 resembled its predecessor, lacking the aggression which could be seen in the 626/Capella as built for the rest of the world. It was also considerably larger and heavier. LX and ES models were available, with both 2.0L and 2.5L V6 engines. Unusual amongst its competitors, the V6 was available with a manual transmission.\nFrom 1998 through 1999 the 626 was given an engine overhaul to give it better pedal feel. However, as most car reviews attested, it is a bland vehicle with softer handling and fewer features than the 1993\u20131997 version. One such quote from Edmunds described it as \"a bland, bread-and-butter sedan that's not big enough for families and not sporty enough for enthusiasts.\" Along with a nearly invisible facelift, front side airbags were new options for 2000, as were larger wheels, four-wheel discs, and rear heat ducts. The four-cylinder engine was also upgraded by .\nThe final Mazda 626 rolled off the Flat Rock, Michigan assembly plant on 30 August 2002 but in Colombia they were still being produced until 2005.\nReferences.\nBibliography.\n "}
{"id": "731611", "revid": "21834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731611", "title": "Gerard Machado", "text": ""}
{"id": "731612", "revid": "55767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731612", "title": "Anarchist punk", "text": ""}
{"id": "731613", "revid": "1669452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731613", "title": "Mazda RX-3", "text": ""}
{"id": "731614", "revid": "1669452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731614", "title": "Mazda RX-4", "text": ""}
{"id": "731615", "revid": "7436027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731615", "title": "Mark Divo", "text": "Mark Divo (born 1966) is a Swiss-Luxembourgian conceptual artist and curator. He organizes large-scale interactive art projects incorporating the work of underground artists. His work involves painting, performance, photography, sculpture and installation.\nEarly life.\nDivo was born in 1966. From 1987 to 1989 he studied social sciences in G\u00f6ttingen. He had his first self-organized exhibition in 1988. In 1989 he dropped out of his studies and moved to Berlin.\nCareer.\nBetween 1988 and 1989 Divo worked in West Berlin. After the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, he moved to East Berlin, where he organized exhibitions at the Kunst Haus Tacheles. Between 1990 and 1994 he organized exhibitions, performances, and murals with the Duncker group.\nIn 1994 he moved back to Z\u00fcrich where he created a number of murals and organised a group of travelling mural painters. There he organised several underground art projects funded by the Swiss government, including exhibitions/events in the subways of Escherwyssplatz. In 1995, he organised a festival of underground art. Amongst the artists who exhibited were Swiss artist Ingo Giezendanner, German artist Leumund Cult and British artist Lennie Lee.\nIn the winter of 2002, he occupied the Cabaret Voltaire with different artists including Dan Jones. Together they succeeded in preventing the location's closure. The building has now been turned into a museum dedicated to Dada (Cabaret Voltaire). In 2003 he organised a Dada festival at the Sihlpapierfabrik.\nIn 2004, Divo was awarded a one year art residency at the Swiss Institute Contemporary Art New York in West Broadway, New York, where he invited artists to exhibit alongside him. In the summer of 2008, he established the Divo Institute, a multi-disciplinary arts center in the city of Kol\u00edn, near Prague. In August 2009, Divo was one of thirty artist-curators who presented work by artists from the Divo Institute at the Subvision Art Festival in Hamburg. \nSince becoming an artist, Divo has exhibited in museums throughout Europe including the Helmhaus, Z\u00fcrich, the Contemporary Art Center, Vilnius, the Kunsthaus Z\u00fcrich and the Kinsk\u00fd Palace, Prague. He has created three public sculptures for the city of Z\u00fcrich.\nSince 2002, working in collaboration with artists, performers and photographers, Divo has produced a series of large-format satirical photographs."}
{"id": "731622", "revid": "51597828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731622", "title": "WKVR (FM)", "text": "WKVR (102.5 FM) is a noncommercial radio station licensed to Baltimore, Ohio, United States. Owned by the Educational Media Foundation, this station serves much of the Columbus metropolitan area as an affiliate of K-Love. WKVR's transmitter resides off Pickerington Road in Carroll; in addition to a standard analog transmission, WKVR is available online.\nHistory.\nWHIZ-FM/WCVZ (1961\u20132010).\nThe 102.5 MHz frequency was originally licensed to Zanesville, Ohio, and signed on as the original home to WHIZ-FM on December 16, 1961. Under the ownership of the Southeastern Ohio Broadcasting System, Inc.'s WHIZ Media Group, WHIZ-FM programmed an adult contemporary format long identified as \"Z102\".\nThe WHIZ Media Group was granted authority to change WHIZ-FM's city of license from Zanesville to Baltimore, Ohio, in the fall of 2005, and a construction permit to build a new transmitter site was granted in October 2008. On October 17, 2008, the WHIZ Media Group purchased WCVZ (92.7 FM) in South Zanesville (from which those call letters stood for the Christian Voice of Zanesville) as the new frequency for WHIZ-FM. Both WCVZ and WHIZ-FM simulcast programming as \"Z102 and 92.7\" until December 7, 2008, when WCVZ assumed WHIZ-FM's identity as \"Z92.7\", and WHIZ-FM became \"Highway 102\", featuring an automated country music format.\nThe \"Highway 102\" format continued on the 102.5 MHz frequency even after the station completed their relocation to Baltimore on October 1, 2008, and assumed the WCVZ call letters, while the 92.7 MHz frequency became WHIZ-FM. What was now WCVZ effectively ended any connection to the Zanesville region and consequently entered the Columbus market. As a result of this move-in as \"Highway 102\", the station became one of four country music radio outlets in Columbus \u2013 WHOK-FM, WCOL-FM and WNKK being the other stations.\n2010 \"frequency shift\".\nOn June 30, 2010, Ohio State University's WOSU Public Media announced a $4.8 million purchase of WWCD (101.1 FM) from Fun With Radio, LLC.; at the same time, Fun With Radio entered into a local marketing agreement with the WHIZ Media Group to take over programming on the 102.5 MHz frequency immediately, with a future option for purchase. Although generally reported and regarded as a \"frequency shift\", Fun With Radio took over programming and operations of WCVZ; changed the station's format from country music to alternative rock as a direct simulcast of WWCD (101.1 FM); and rebranded the station as CD101 @ 102.5.\nWOSU Public Media's purchase of WWCD (101.1 FM) was consummated that December 14, with WOSU Public Media changing WWCD's callsign to WOSA; and changing the station's format to classical music. WCVZ's callsign was concurrently changed to WWCD; Fun With Radio retained all of WWCD (101.1 FM)'s respective on- and off-air staff. In effect, this new WWCD licensed to Baltimore became the successor to the previous WWCD (101.1 FM) licensed to Grove City.\nFor some time, WWCD continued to use the anachronistic \"CD101\" brand over the air, online and in print, even though the terms of the sale with Ohio State University clearly dictated that WWCD must cease any and all on-air mentions of \"101\" or \"101.1\" when the deal closed. Several days before the initial sale with WOSU Public Media was announced, Fun With Radio, LLC registered the domain names CD101at1025.com and CD1025.com, which originally acted as redirectors to CD101.com; following the station rebranding to CD102.5 in 2012, the website was moved to the CD1025.com domain.\nWWCD (2010\u20132020).\nIn November 2011, amid weeks of speculation that Salem Communications was negotiating to either purchase or lease the 102.5 FM frequency as a new location for the programming of WRFD, WWCD general manager Randy Malloy formed a new company, WWCD Ltd., to purchase the intellectual property of CD101 from Roger Vaughn's Fun With Radio, LLC. Vaughn retained a minority share of the new company, though all references to Fun With Radio would be removed from any station documents and promotion. The new ownership group immediately began negotiating a new lease agreement with Southeastern Ohio Broadcasting, owner of the frequency. On September 15, 2017, Randy Malloy became sole owner of WWCD, Ltd.\nFormer WWCD DJs include the aforementioned Davis, who helmed the afternoon shift from 1991 until his death; Mase Brazelle, the station's Program Director from 2016 until his death; Jim Ballantine, a Columbus Chill player most notable for wearing the first three-digit jersey number in professional sports history (101, in a nod to the station's frequency); and Fritz the Nite Owl, who also once hosted one of the last late night movie television programs locally produced in the United States. Fritz's show was broadcast on WCLL-CA, television channel 19, in Columbus.\nThe station featured \"Guest DJs\" once a week, where anyone has the chance of being a DJ for an hour on air. A compilation of 12-15 songs is put together by the guest, and they can play them during this hour. With COVID-19 concerns in mind, the station pivoted to \"Select-a-Set\" in March 2020, a newly revived program where listeners can remotely share their playlists without in-studio presence.\nWWLG (2020\u20132024).\nOn October 31, 2020, \"CD102.5\" announced that the LMA with the WHIZ Media Group would expire at the end of the day, with programming to be moved online. WWCD Limited would subsequently lease WMYC (1580 AM and 92.9 FM) effective November 21, and WDLR (1550 AM) effective January 1, 2021, to return its \"CD\" alternative rock programming to the air.\nAt 12:01\u00a0a.m. on November 1, 102.5 FM would temporarily go dark; it signed back on about 15 minutes later with a jockless mix of rock music and legal station identification. On November 6, 2020, at 10 a.m., Urban One took over operations of WWCD via local marketing agreement and changed the format to Regional Mexican, branded as \"La Grande 102.5\". The station adopted the WWLG call letters on November 12.\nThe WWLG license was not included in the 2022 sale of the remainder of the WHIZ Media Group to Marquee Broadcasting.\nWKVR (2024\u2013present).\nUrban One's LMA of WWLG would end at the end of October 2024, coinciding with a partnership with La Mega Media under which WWLA (103.1 FM) would simulcast on Urban One-owned WJYD (107.1 FM). On November 1, 102.5 would begin being leased out by Educational Media Foundation to broadcast their Christian adult contemporary brand, K-Love, under new call sign WKVR. The following week, it was reported that EMF would buy the station outright for $2,060,000."}
{"id": "731625", "revid": "19801574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731625", "title": "Milt Campbell", "text": "Milton Gray Campbell (December 9, 1933 \u2013 November 2, 2012) was an American decathlete of the 1950s. In 1956, he became the first African American to win the gold medal in the decathlon of the Summer Olympic Games.\nPersonal life.\nCampbell was born in Plainfield, New Jersey. At Plainfield High School he competed in track, football and swimming. He then enrolled at the Indiana University (Bloomington), where he played football and ran track.\nMilton Gray Campbell, more commonly known as \u201cMilt\u201d, was born on December 9, 1933, in Plainfield, New Jersey. While Campbell's love for sports was apparent from a very young age - always competing with and trying to outperform his older brother, Tom - his athletic prowess was first noticed in high school. He attended Plainfield High School (class of '53) where he participated in track and field, played football, and swam at a time when it was a widely accepted idea in the sports world that African-Americans were unable to properly swim.\nTrack and field.\nWhile a student at Plainfield High School, Campbell won a place on the 1952 Olympic team in the decathlon. Although just 18 years old, Campbell finished second to Bob Mathias in the decathlon. Campbell set New Jersey state records in the high and low hurdles and in the high jump, and scored 140 points as fullback in football. He was inducted into the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association Hall of Fame in 1997. He was \"Track and Field News\" \"High School Athlete of the Year\" in 1952.\nWhile he earned the distinction of \u201cAll-State\u201d in both football and swimming, Campbell excelled most in track and field, and told his coach that he aspired to be the greatest athlete in the entire state of New Jersey, to which his coach responded that he believed Campbell could possibly become the best in the world. Campbell, surprised at his response, inquired how such a feat would be possible for him to achieve. His coach instructed him that in order to do so, he would have to win the Olympic decathlon. Campbell, having never heard of the decathlon, had to look it up to gain more information. Intrigued by its nature, Campbell decided to take on the challenge and began training. He wanted to represent the United States in the upcoming 1952 Olympic Games which were to be held in Helsinki. Campbell initially wanted to qualify for the hurdles event, but when the day came he placed fourth, with only the top three qualifying. Through the guidance of his Plainfield High coach, an 18-year-old Campbell made the Olympic decathlon team - his qualifier being his first-ever participation in a decathlon event - and ended up placing second behind Bob Mathias, the gold medalist from the previous 1948 London Games. When he returned home to New Jersey, he was greeted with applause and congratulations for earning a silver medal in the event. However, Campbell himself was disappointed, having wanted to win, and knew that he needed to practice harder and longer over the next four years in order to excel at and win the 1956 Olympics, which were to be held in Melbourne.\nIn the time between the 1952 and 1956 Olympics, Campbell enrolled at the Indiana University (Bloomington), and, much like in high school, he played football and ran track - further preparing for the upcoming Games. By the time the summer of 1956 rolled around, Campbell was prepared: He went out onto the Melbourne track and dominated, earning a gold medal in the decathlon, and also setting a record of 13.4 seconds for the 120 yd hurdles.\nFootball.\nCampbell was also an excellent swimmer as a youth. An all around athlete, Campbell was drafted by the NFL Cleveland Browns in 1957 and played one season in the same backfield as Jim Brown. Milt was released from the Cleveland Browns by owner Paul Brown for marrying a white woman. He then played for several years in the Canadian Football League, ending his football career in 1964.\nWhile his spectacular performance as an Olympic decathlete was likely the peak of his athletic career, he continued to display his prowess on the football field, being drafted by the NFL Cleveland Browns in 1957. He rushed seven times for 23 total yards in the halfback position and played alongside MVP and Rookie of the Year running back Jim Brown. However, his NFL career was unjustly short-lived: The owner of the Browns, Paul Brown, placed his segregationist ideals above Campbell's athletic ability, and kicked him off the team for his marriage to Barbara Mount, a white woman. According to Campbell, Brown called him into his office the day before Campbell was \u201clet go\u201d and asked him why he got married, Campbell responded \u201cI got married for the same reason you got married, I presume,\u201d and told Brown that it was none of his business. He received a letter the next day telling him that his services were no longer needed by the Browns. Still wanting to pursue a career in football, Campbell went to Canada, where he joined the Canadian Football League, playing with the Hamilton Tiger-Cats (8 games rushing for 468 yards), Kitchener-Waterloo Dutchmen, Montreal Alouettes (3 games) and Toronto Argonauts (9 games) until his retirement in 1964.\nJudo.\nAs he finished with most sports, Milt sought to stay active. He started Judo and quickly progressed through the ranks under Yoshishada Yoneska. Yoshishada stated that Milt had a strong chance to make the 1972 Olympic team. An AAU Official took his card and stated he could not compete in the Olympics for Judo. The reason was that Milt had competed as a professional football player. Milt was troubled as professional track runners were allowed to compete in the Olympics, but he could not because he played football.\nIn 2008, a degree of Doctor of Public Service, \"honoris causa\", was conferred upon him by Monmouth University in West Long Branch, New Jersey.\nLegacy.\nDespite his accomplishments as an extraordinary athlete, Milt Campbell never became a household name, nor was he properly rewarded like other famous athletes of his time. Other Olympic decathletes such as Bob Mathias and Bruce Jenner gained many significant endorsements and a spot on a Wheaties box after their victories, while Campbell walked off of the 1956 podium with no cash, sponsors, or television executives asking for a feature. When asked about these differences in treatment, Campbell declared that \u201cAmerica wasn't ready for a black man to be the best athlete in the world\u201d. He has since been regarded as the Olympic superstar who is \u201cfamous\u201d for not being famous. Renowned sports news platforms periodically procure lists of athletes that fit certain criteria as a means of praise for their incredible athletic prowess and achievements in the sporting world. As recently as 2000, ESPN has put out lists featuring the \u201c50 Greatest Black Athletes\u201d and the \u201cTop 100 Athletes of the 20th Century\u201d, which remind the public of what makes some of their heroes so notable. Campbell deserves to be high up on both of those lists, but in fact was not included or even mentioned on either list.\nCampbell was inducted into the Indiana University Athletics Hall of Fame in 1982, and United States Olympic Hall of Fame in 1992. In June 2012, Campbell was voted into the New Jersey Hall of Fame. (nytimes.com). He is also present in the National Track and Field Hall of Fame and the International Swimming Hall of Fame, and remains the only individual to hold a spot in both of these Halls.\nFollowing a long-fought battle with prostate cancer, Campbell died in his Gainesville, GA home in the summer of 2012 with his long-standing girlfriend Linda Rusch, by his side. He was 78 years old. His brother (Thomas L. Campbell, Jr.) preceded him in death. Milt is survived by his sister (Sandra E. Campbell Smith), his daughters (Julee Campbell, Dorianne B., and Mona H.), his sons (Milton G. Campbell Jr., deceased, Justin Campbell, and Milton G. Campbell, III), his granddaughter (Taria L. Campbell), and his great-grandchild (Nathaniel G. Johnsen). He is interred at Memorial Park Cemetery and Mausoleum - North in Gainesville."}
{"id": "731627", "revid": "16543020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731627", "title": "Dakota Digital", "text": ""}
{"id": "731632", "revid": "16543025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731632", "title": "Dakota Digital Camera", "text": ""}
{"id": "731635", "revid": "40781349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731635", "title": "Baron Keith", "text": "Baron Keith was a title that was created three times in British history, with all three creations in favour of the same person, Admiral the Honourable Sir George Keith Elphinstone. In 1814 Lord Keith was further honoured when he was made Viscount Keith in the Peerage of the United Kingdom, with normal remainder to heirs male."}
{"id": "731636", "revid": "16543028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731636", "title": "Dakota Camera", "text": ""}
{"id": "731637", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731637", "title": "Sexual violence", "text": "Sexual violence is any harmful or unwanted sexual act, an attempt to obtain a sexual act through violence or coercion, or an act directed against a person's sexuality without their consent, by any individual regardless of their relationship to the victim. This includes forced engagement in sexual acts, attempted or completed, and may be physical, psychological, or verbal. It occurs in times of peace and armed conflict situations, is widespread, and is considered to be one of the most traumatic, pervasive, and most common human rights violations.\nSexual violence is a serious public health problem and has profound short- and long-term physical and mental health impacts such as increased risks of sexual and reproductive health problems, suicide, and HIV infection. Murder occurring either during a sexual assault or as a result of an honor killing in response to a sexual assault is also a factor of sexual violence. Though women and girls suffer disproportionately from these aspects, sexual violence can occur to anybody at any age; it is an act of violence that can be perpetrated by parents, caregivers, acquaintances and strangers, as well as intimate partners. It is rarely a crime of passion, and is rather an aggressive act that frequently aims to express power and dominance over the victim.\nSexual violence remains highly stigmatized in all settings, oftentimes dismissed as a women's issue, thus levels of disclosure of the assault vary between regions. In general, it is a widely underreported phenomenon, thus available data tend to underestimate the true scale of the problem. In addition, sexual violence is also a neglected area of research, thus deeper understanding of the issue is imperative in order to promote a coordinated movement against it. Domestic sexual violence is distinguished from conflict-related sexual violence. Often, people who coerce their spouses into sexual acts believe their actions are legitimate because they are married. In times of conflict, sexual violence tends to be an inevitable repercussion of warfare trapped in an ongoing cycle of impunity. Rape of women and of men is often used as a method of warfare (war rape), as a form of attack on the enemy, typifying the conquest and degradation of its women or men or captured male or female fighters. Even if strongly prohibited by international human rights law, customary law and international humanitarian law, enforcement mechanisms are still fragile or even non-existent in many corners of the world.\nFrom a historical perspective, sexual violence was considered as only being perpetrated by men against women and as being commonplace and \"normal\" during both war and peace times from the Ancient Greeks to the 20th century. This led to the negligence of any indications of what the methods, aims and magnitude of such violence was. It took until the end of the 20th century for sexual violence to no longer be considered a minor issue and to gradually become criminalized. Sexual violence is still used in modern warfare as recently as in the Rwandan genocide and in the Gaza war, targeting both Israelis and Palestinians.\nDefinitions.\nGeneral.\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) in its 2002 World Report on Violence and Health defined sexual violence as: \"any sexual act, attempt to obtain a sexual act, unwanted sexual comments or advances, or acts to traffic, or otherwise directed, against a person's sexuality using coercion, by any person regardless of their relationship to the victim, in any setting, including but not limited to home and work\". WHO's definition of sexual violence includes but is not limited to rape, which is defined as physically forced or otherwise coerced penetration of the vulva or anus, using a penis, other body parts or an object. Sexual violence consists in a purposeful action of which the intention is often to inflict severe humiliation on the victims and diminish human dignity. In the case where others are forced to watch acts of sexual violence, such acts aim at intimidating the larger community.\nOther acts incorporated in sexual violence are various forms of sexual assaults, such as forced contact between mouth and penis, vulva or anus. Sexual violence can include coerced contact between the mouth and penis, vulva or anus, or acts that do not involve physical contact between the victim and the perpetrator\u2014for example, sexual harassment, threats, and peeping.\nCoercion, with regard to sexual violence, can cover a whole spectrum of degrees of force. Apart from physical force, it may involve psychological intimidation, blackmail or other threats \u2013 for instance, the threat of physical harm, of being dismissed from a job or of not obtaining a job that is sought. It may also occur when the person being attacked is unable to give consent \u2013 for instance, while drunk, drugged, asleep or mentally incapable of understanding the situation.\nSuch broader definitions of sexual violence are found within international law. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) has established in article 7(1)(g) that \"rape, sexual slavery, enforced prostitution, forced pregnancy, enforced sterilization, or any other form of sexual violence of comparable gravity\" constitutes a crime against humanity. Sexual violence is further explained in the ICC's Elements of Crimes, which the Court uses in its interpretation and application of Article 7. The Elements of Crime establishes that sexual violence is:The United Nations Special Rapporteur on systemic rape sexual slavery and slavery-like practices during armed conflict, in a report in 1998, stipulated that sexual violence is \"any violence, physical or psychological, carried out through sexual means by targeting sexuality\". This definition encompasses physical as well as psychological attacks aimed at \"a person's sexual characteristics, such as forcing a person to strip naked in public, mutilating a person's genitals, or slicing off a woman's breasts\". The Special Rapporteur's definition also refers to situations \"in which two victims are forced to perform sexual acts on one another or to harm one another in a sexual manner\".\nThe WHO lists a number of examples of circumstances that sexual violence can be committed:\nA thorough definition is necessary in monitoring the prevalence of sexual violence and studying trends over time. In addition, a consistent definition helps in determining the magnitude of sexual violence and aids in comparing the problem across demographics. Consistency allows researchers to measure risk and protective factors for victimization in a uniform manner. This ultimately informs prevention and intervention efforts.\nConflict-related and domestic sexual violence.\nA distinction is made between conflict-related sexual violence and domestic sexual violence:\nVictims.\nSpectrum.\nAll people can fall victim to sexual violence. This includes women, men, children, and people who define themselves in other terms, e.g., transgender or non-binary individuals.\nMost research, reports and studies focus on sexual violence perpetrated against women and in armed conflicts. The majority of victims are women, but men and children are also victims of sexual violence. The crime may be committed in peacetime or during conflict.\nIt is possible for individuals to be targeted based on sexual orientation or gender-exhibiting behaviour. Such attacks, which are often called \"corrective rapes\" have been performed to conform an individual to a heterosexual orientation or to more accepted notions of behaviour for the perceived gender of the victim; asexual individuals are also particularly targeted.\nDomestic sexual violence.\nDomestic sexual violence includes all forms of unwanted sexual activity. It is considered abuse even if the victim may have previously engaged in consensual sexual activities with the perpetrator. Men and women can both fall victim to this type of abuse although women are more often the victims than men, and men perpetrate more often than women. Moreover, lesbian, bisexual, and trans women are more likely than cis and heterosexual women to experience intimate partner violence, which includes sexual violence. Male persons are more likely to commit domestic sexual violence regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation.\nA 2006 WHO study on physical and sexual domestic violence against women conducted across ten countries found that the prevalence of domestic sexual violence ranged, on average, between 10% and 40%. Domestic sexual violence is also considerably less common than other forms of domestic violence. The variations in the findings across and within countries suggest that this type of abuse is not inevitable and can be prevented.\nWomen.\nSexual violence against women and girls can take many forms and is carried out in different situations and contexts. Women comprise the great majority of victims of sexual violence and live with the possibility of falling victim in common life situations. For instance, a 1987 study concluded that college women reported being the victims of unwanted sex that was the result of men using verbal coercion and physical force to manipulate them into it, and alcohol or drugs to intoxicate them into it.\nSexual violence is one of the most common and widespread violations that men subject women to during wartime. It also figures among the most traumatic experiences, both emotionally and psychologically, women suffer during conflict. Sexual violence, in particular rape, is often considered as a method of warfare: it is used not only to \"torture, injure, extract information, degrade, displace, intimidate, punish or simply destroy\", but also as a strategy to destabilize communities and demoralize other men. The use of sexual violence as a weapon of war was widespread conflicts such as Rwanda, Sudan, Sierra Leone, and Kosovo. The perpetrators of female-directed violence in times of conflict are often armed groups and local men.\nSexual violence can also be caused by the consequences of purity cultures, in which sexual activity is associated with impurity and sin.\nMen.\nAs with sexual violence against women, sexual violence against men can take different forms, and occur in any kind of context, including at home or in the workplace, in prisons and police custody, and during war and in the military. The practice of sexually assaulting males is not confined to any geographical area of the world or its place of commission, and occurs irrespective of the victim's age. The various forms of sexual violence directed against males include rape, enforced sterilization, enforced masturbation, and genital violence (including genital mutilation). In addition to the physical pain caused, sexual violence against men can also exploit local ideas of gender and sexuality to cause tremendous mental and psychological anguish for survivors that can last for years following the attack.\nMale-directed sexual violence is more significant than is often thought. The scope of such crimes continues, however, to be unknown largely because of poor or a lack of documentation. The under- or non-reporting of sexual violence against males may often be due to fear, confusion, guilt, shame and stigma, or a combination thereof. Moreover, men may be reluctant to talk about being victim of crimes of sexual violence. In this regard, the way in which societies construct the notion of masculinity plays a role. Masculinity and victimization may be considered incompatible, in particular in societies where masculinity is equated with the ability to exert power, leading to non-reporting. The incompatibility between the conventional understanding of masculinity and victimization can arise both with regard to the attack itself and when coping with the consequences of such crimes. Because of under- and non-reporting on sexual violence against men, the little evidence that exists tends to be anecdotal.\nIn the case that sexual violence against males is recognized and reported, it is often categorized as \"abuse\" or \"torture\". This is considered a tendency to hide sexual assaults directed at men as something else, and it is believed to contribute to the poor- or lack of reporting of such crimes, and can arise from the belief that sexual violence is a women's issue and that men cannot be victims of sexual assaults.\nChildren.\nSexual violence against children is a form of child abuse. It includes harassment and rape, as well as the use of children in prostitution or pornography.\nSexual violence is a serious infringement upon a child's rights, and one which can result in significant physical and psychological trauma to the victim. A 2002 WHO study approximated that 223 million children have been victims of sexual violence involving physical contact. Yet, due to the sensitivity of the issue and the tendency of the crime to stay hidden, the true figure is likely to be much higher.\nGirls are more frequent targets for sexual abuse than boys. The WHO study found that 150 million girls were abused compared to 73 million boys. Other sources also conclude that girls face a greater risk of sexual violence, including prostitution.\nCauses and factors.\nExplanations.\nExplaining sexual violence is complicated by the multiple forms it takes and contexts in which it occurs. There is considerable overlap between forms of sexual violence and intimate partner violence. There are factors increasing the risk of someone being coerced into sex, factors increasing the risk of an individual person forcing sex on another person, and factors within the social environment including peers and family influencing the likelihood of rape and the reaction to it.\nResearch suggests that the various factors have an additive effect, so that the more factors present, the greater the likelihood of sexual violence. In addition, a particular factor may vary in importance according to the life stage.\nSome 70% of people who experienced sexual violence were paralyzed before and during the assault. The prevailing view amongst scientists is that this form of tonic immobility occurs in humans when no other options to avoid the sexual violence are available anymore, and the brain paralyses the body in order to allow it to survive with minimal damage.\nRisk factors.\nThe following are individual risks factors:\nThe following are relationship risk factors:\nThe following are community factors:\nThere is also post-catastrophe sexual opportunism. Sexual opportunism during and after catastrophic events is largely unreported. Massive spikes in human trafficking of girls and other humanitarian abuses has been reported in events such as after the devastating April 2015 Nepal earthquake.\nPerpetrators.\nPerpetrators may come from various backgrounds, and they may be someone known by the victim like a friend, a family member, an intimate partner, an acquaintance, or they may be a complete stranger. While it is estimated that 93% to 97% perpetrators of sexual violence are men, sexual violence is often erroneously dismissed as a women's issue. The primary motivators behind sexually violent acts are believed to be power and control, and not, as it is widely perceived, sexual desire. Sexual violence is rather a violent, aggressive and hostile act aiming to degrade, dominate, humiliate, terrorize and control the victim. Some of the reasons for committing sexual violence are that it reassures the offender about his sexual adequacy, it discharges frustration, compensates for feelings of helplessness, and achieves sexual gratification.\nData on sexually violent men are somewhat limited and heavily biased towards apprehended rapists, except in the United States, where research has also been conducted on male college students. Despite the limited amount of information on sexually violent men, it appears that sexual violence is found in almost all countries (though with differences in prevalence), in all socioeconomic classes and in all age groups from childhood on. Data on sexually violent men also show that most direct their acts at women whom they already know. Among the factors increasing the risk of a man committing rape are those related to attitudes and beliefs, as well as behavior arising from situations and social conditions that provide opportunities and support for abuse.\nConsequences.\nSexual violence is a serious public health problem and it has both short and long term negative physical and psychological effects on health and well-being. There is evidence that male and female victims of sexual violence may experience similar mental health, behavioral and social consequences. Watts, Hossain, and Zimmerman (2013) reported that 72.4% of the survivors had at least one gynecological complaint. 52.2% had chronic lower abdominal pain, 27.4% had abnormal vaginal bleeding, 26.6% had infertility, 25.3% had genital sores, and 22.5% had swellings in the abdomen. 18.7% of the participants also had severe psychological and surgical morbidity including alcoholism. 69.4% showed significant psychological distress, 15.8% attempted suicide, 75.6% had at least one surgical complaint. 4.8% of the participants had a positive HIV status.\nIn child sexual abuse (CSA) cases, the child may develop mental health disorders that can extend into adult life especially if sexual abuse involved actual intercourse. Studies on abused boys have shown that around one in five continue in later life to molest children themselves. CSA may lead to negative behavioral patterns in later life, learning difficulties as well as regression of or slower development.\nThe table below gives some examples of possible physical and psychological consequences of sexual violence:\nIn some cases victims of sexual violence may be stigmatized and ostracized by their families and others. Societal perceptions that the victim provoked sexual violence lead to a lack of disclosure of sexual assault which is associated with even more severe psychological consequences, particularly in children. Thus, more interventions are needed in order to order to change societal attitudes towards sexual violence as well as efforts designed to educate those to whom the survivors may disclose the assault.\nTreatment.\nIn the emergency room, emergency contraceptive medications are offered to women raped by men because about 5% of such rapes result in pregnancy. Preventative medication against sexually transmitted infections are given to victims of all types of sexual assault (especially for the most common diseases like chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomoniasis and bacterial vaginosis) and a blood serum is collected to test for STIs (such as HIV, hepatitis B and syphilis). Any survivor with abrasions are immunized for tetanus if five years have elapsed since the last immunization. Short-term treatment with a benzodiazepine may help with acute anxiety and antidepressants may be helpful for symptoms of PTSD, depression and panic attacks.\nSexual violence survivors who have lasting psychological symptoms as a result of their trauma may seek psychological counseling and therapy.\nInformal treatment, or support, includes social support, which can provide avenues for social justice engagement. Themes of self-reflection, social support, and activism aimed at supporting other survivors and preventing sexual violence are associated with improved functioning and facilitating positive change post trauma. Involvement in anti-sexual violence activism can aid survivors in making sense of the social conditions that contributed to their violation, recover self-confidence, and facilitate peer support, however survivors have also identified burn out to be prevalent in activist work.\nPrevention.\nThe number of initiatives addressing sexual violence is limited and few have been evaluated. The approaches vary with most interventions being developed and implemented in industrialized countries. How relevant they may be in other settings is not well known. Early interventions and the provision of psychological support may prevent or minimize many of the harmful and lasting psychological impacts of sexual assault.The interventions that have been developed can be categorized as follows.\nThere is also a public health approach to prevention. Because sexual violence is widespread and directly or indirectly affects a community as whole, a community-oriented approach encourages not just victims and advocates to spread awareness and prevent sexual violence, but allocates responsibility to wider community to do so as well. The CDC's report on Sexual Violence Prevention: Beginning the Dialogue suggests following its four step model.\nChild sexual abuse prevention programmes were developed in the United States of America during the 1970s and originally delivered to children. Programmes delivered to parents were developed in the 1980s and took the form of one-off meetings, two to three hours long. In the last 15 years, web-based programmes have been developed.\nStatistics.\nThe below table shows the annual rate of sexual violence reports according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.\nEstimate of prevalence.\nSexual violence is a generally underreported phenomenon, therefore available statistics are unlikely to inform about the true scale of the problem. The available data are scanty and fragmented. Police data, for instance, are often incomplete and limited. Data from medico-legal clinics, on the other hand, may be biased towards the more violent incidents of sexual abuse. In addition, the proportion of people who seek medical services for immediate problems related to sexual violence is also relatively small.\nReasons for non-reporting include shame and embarrassment, fear of not being believed, fear of the perpetrator of the crime, fear of the legal process, or disbelief that the police would be able to do anything to help them. Men are even more reluctant to report sexual violence due to extreme embarrassment and concerns about opinions of other people, their masculinity and the fact that they were unable to prevent the assault. Thus information about the extent of sexual violence against males is especially limited. Child sexual abuse is also largely underreported. Most of the data comes from asking adults about their past experiences.\nOne of the reasons for non-reporting is that children lack independent access to resources. They normally require the cooperation of one of their parents who may refuse to believe their child, or may, in fact, be the perpetrator.\nData on sexual violence typically come from police, clinical settings, nongovernmental organizations and survey research. The relationship between these sources and the global magnitude of the problem of sexual violence may be viewed as corresponding to an iceberg floating in water (see diagram). The small visible tip represents cases reported to police. A larger section may be elucidated through survey research and the work of nongovernmental organizations.\nThe percentage of population which was according to statistical surveys victim to sexual violence in the previous 12 months is shown below.\nCulture.\nSexual violence occurs in all cultures with varying definitions of what constitutes it. It is possible that in cultures where man and his manly role are prized better, additional perceived or real power may encourage them to think of their \"rights\". If a woman resists sexual intercourse, it may be perceived as a direct threat by men to their masculinity, triggering a crisis of male identity and contributing to sexual control and violence as it is seen as a way of resolving this crisis. It has been reported that victims who attempt resistance or escape from the situation are more likely to be brutalized by the offender,32 thereby giving an inflated sense of power to the abuser as was seen in the New Delhi gang rape case of \"Nirbhaya\" in December 2012. It is likely that in patriarchal cultures, any resistance from the woman victim is perceived by the offender as an insult to his \"manhood\" further provoking him to resort to more violent means to control the victim.\nThere is a theory that explains sexual violence as socioculturally constructed which disproves the biological framework that suggests sexual violence is a result of a man's sexual urges. This theory looks to prove that sexual violence is a natural behavior that originates from the \"biological propensity to reproduce have a net positive effect on the person's (resorting to sexual violence) reproductive success. The sociocultural theory takes into account gender power equations, moral values, male dominance, and attitudes toward violence.\"\nFeminism.\nFeminist scholars and activists have made unique contributions to the discourse on sexual violence against women and men\n. They have proposed that the root causes of sexual violence lie in the social structure characterized by severe inequality, in which the male is dominant and the female exploited. Feminists also hold that the weak institutional arrangements in place to address consequences of sexual violence, as well as unfair treatment of the victims (or survivors, an alternatively proposed terminology) are direct reflections of the ways in which society regards men, women and the sexual relations between them. Furthermore, feminist critique has led to a closer convergence between feminism and psychology in the study of sexual violence.\nConveying a connection between gender-based sexual violence and concepts of power-seeking and subordination was pioneered in the 1970s and has proven to be very influential. Within this context, rape has been assessed as a foremost tool of intimidation used by men against women. Similarly, domestic violence can be viewed as a particularly severe form of patriarchal domination and oppression.\nSome feminist views on pornography also suggest a link between rape and pornography, by which pornography that degrades, humiliates and exercises violence upon the female body feeds a culture which validates this kind of behavior. There are also feminists positing that certain feminist forms of pornography could actually stimulate emancipation.\nAn intersection of Marxist and feminist theories has been utilized to offer additional insight into the topic of sexual violence. According to this argument, labor and sex are analogous in the roles they play in their respective overarching exploitative systems: both are produced by the exploited person and both are forcefully taken away from them.\nSome feminist scholars have illuminated the idea that all women cannot have uniformly similar experiences of sexual violence or its aftermath. For instance, race and ethnicity are significant determinants of these experiences, which serves to show that approaches that are exclusively feminist or exclusively anti-racist in nature are misguided. Instead, a proposition has been made for use of intersectionality when studying these cases.\nFeminist ideas have served as catalysts for transnational movements to combat violence against women, including sexual violence. This agenda has also been adopted by feminist organizations, as illustrated by the current initiative titled the Rape Task Force of the National Organization for Women (NOW).\nAmong other countries, feminists and women's rights activists in Egypt faced extreme challenges in combatting the grave issues of sexual violence. In 2020, the country witnessed an escalated #MeToo movement. However, it took a few months for the spark to fade. In 2021, the authorities in Egypt arrested six witnesses of a gang rape case that took place in 2014 at the country's Cairo hotel. It highlighted the difficulties that the rights defenders were facing.\nHistory.\nAntiquity.\nThe oldest textual references to sexual violence can be traced back to, amongst other cultures, the ancient Greeks and Romans, where women were seen as property without any rights over their bodies or sexual integrity. Rape of women during peace times was therefore considered as property crime only affecting their owners: the husbands, sons or brothers. A linguistic clue can still be found in verb \"to rape\", which derives from Latin \"rapere\", which originally meant 'to steal, seize, rob, carry away'; any infringement or damage to a woman or girl was primarily considered to be an offence against her husband if she was married, or against her father if she was not, and a crime against the community and public morality instead of a crime against the individual woman or girl herself. Generally speaking, the victim was blamed for having put the family to shame, especially if she was not married yet and lost her virginity during the rape; many cultures tried to resolve this by allowing the rapist to marry the victim in order to restore the 'family honour' of the latter. During armed conflict sexual violence, particularly rape, was perceived as a normal byproduct of war, as \"a socially acceptable behavior well within the rules of warfare\". In Ancient Greece, women were sometimes the reason for the attack of a city, conquering women as new wives or concubines, legitimate booty, as slaves or as trophies. The fact that sexual violence to women was commonplace during both war and peace times led to the negligence of any indications of what the methods, aims and magnitude of such violence was; it was face- and nameless.\nMiddle Ages and early modern period.\nThe European Middle Ages strongly reflected a patriarchal view of sexual violence. During times of peace, female spouses had no right to refuse sex with their husbands. Even though laws punishing rapes existed, sexual violence was usually considered as justified or inconsequential. Usually, depending on the elite's views, which perceived sexual violence as a minor issue, sexual violence was not prosecuted. This view was also transferred to the colonies. In Alta California, for example, the Catholic clergy relied heavily on corporal punishment such as flogging, placing in the stocks or shackling of Amerindian women within their programs of Christianization. Within this context of trying to restore a certain social order, women were often the victims of sexual violence if politically active and posing a threat to the existing order. With regard to times of war, jurists, writers and scholars argued that as soon as war is just, no boundaries would be set towards methods used in order to achieve victory. However, with Alberico Gentili (1552\u20131608) discussions started that suffering of women should be reduced and rape prohibited during peace and war times. However, this view was not accepted for a long time, as women and children not participating in the fighting were still considered as being the enemy and the patriarchal view on women prevailed during peace and war times.\nCodification of laws of war on gender-related crimes (c. 1800\u20131945).\nGradually, over the centuries laws and customs of war changed in direction of a wider understanding of sexual violence and the need to protect potential victims. During the American Civil War (1861\u20131865), the US started to codify the customary rules regulating land-based wars. On 24 April 1863, President Abraham Lincoln tried to \"inter alia\" regulate the sexual conduct of Union soldiers towards civilians in hostile territory with the Lieber Code, which contained one of the first explicit prohibitions on rape. Paragraphs 44 and 47 of the Lieber Code contained provisions prohibiting several crimes including \"all rape\" by an American soldier in a hostile country against its inhabitants \"under the penalty of death, or such other severe punishment as may seem adequate for the gravity of the offense\". Thus, the only enforcement mechanisms were the military commanders themselves, having the right to execute the soldiers immediately.\nScholars usually interpret Article 46 of the Annex to the Convention (IV) respecting the Laws and Customs of War on Land of the Second Hague Convention (18 October 1907), which stipulated that \"Family honour and rights ... must be respected\", to be an implicit prohibition of sexual assault or rape. However, because sexual assault was once again conceptualised as a crime of honour against the family instead of a violent crime against the individual person, Clack (2018) regarded this provision as \"a step backwards from the Lieber Code\".\nAfter World War I, a War Crimes Commission was established in order to bring war criminals before justice. Forced prostitution and rape was seen as grave violation of the customs and laws of war. After World War II (1939\u20131945), under the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg (IMT) and the International Military Tribunal for the Far East at Tokyo (IMTFE), the spectrum of sexual violence as war crime was widened even though rape was not explicitly mentioned in the final verdicts. The transcripts of the trials did contain evidence of rape, sexual slavery, sexual sadism, sexual torture, sexual mutilation, forced sterilization, forced abortion, forced nudity, forced pornography and forced prostitution. But only after the Tokyo Tribunal, when Japanese commanders were prosecuted \u2013 for the first time based on the chain of command \u2013 for not having prevented rape and sexual slavery of comfort women during the Second World War, was sexual violence gradually considered as a grave war crime in itself. This view was expressed for the first time after Nuremberg and Tokyo in the second series of trials for the prosecution of \"lesser\" war criminals in Allied-occupied Germany, where the Allied (Article II \u00a71.c), enacted on 20 December 1945, explicitly listed rape as constituting a \"crime against humanity\".\nInternational legal framework (after 1945).\nAfter 1945, an extensive amount of both hard and soft law instruments have set rules, standards and norms for the protection of victims of sexual offences. These include the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW, United Nations 1979); the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action (United Nations June 1993); Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women (United Nations December 1993); the Inter-American Convention on the Prevention, Punishment and Eradication of Violence Against Women (Bel\u00e9m do Par\u00e1 Convention) (Organization of American States 1994); the Protocol to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights on the Rights of Women in Africa (Maputo Protocol) (African Union 2003), and the Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (Istanbul Convention) (Council of Europe 2011).\nThe resulting, ever growing body of international humanitarian law (IHL) strongly prohibits sexual violence in all armed conflicts, and international human rights law (IHRL) and international customary law strongly prohibit it at all times. IHL ensures women are protected through a two-tiered approach, being covered by general (equal protection as men) and specific protections. IHL mandates special protections to women, according to their additional needs when they are more vulnerable, such as widows, the sick and wounded, migrants, the internally displaced, or those held in detention. Meanwhile, second-wave feminists launched the anti-rape movement in the 1960s and 1970s, leading to national legal prohibitions on marital rape by most countries around the world by the 2010s, while marry-your-rapist laws were increasingly abolished in the same decades.\nGroundbreaking case law both by the \"ad hoc\" Tribunals of International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) and International Criminal Tribunal for former Yugoslavia (ICTY) established acts of rape and sexual violence as crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity. ICTR's conviction of Jean-Paul Akayesu for genocide and crimes against humanity on 2 September 1998 is the first case in which sexual violence is perceived as an integral part of genocide as defined in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. The first trial solely focused on the perpetration of systematic sexual violence (rape camps) and on crimes against humanity committed against women and girls was the Fo\u010da case, a ruling before the ICTY. The Statute of the International Criminal Court (ICC) also explicitly incorporates rape and other forms of sexual violence in the list of war crimes and therefore recognizes sexual violence as a grave breach of IHL and of the Geneva Conventions.\nThe UN Security Council, ECOSOC and the UN Commission on Human Rights do not take into account the nature of the conflict with respect to the protection of women in war time. Three reports from the UN Secretary-General and five UN Security Council resolutions specifically address sexual violence. United Nations Security Council Resolution 1888 (2009), in particular, created the Office of the Special Representative of the Secretary General for Sexual Violence in Conflict (SRSG-SVC). The Office highlighted six priorities and identified eight priority countries: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Central African Republic (CAR), Colombia, C\u00f4te d'Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Liberia, South Sudan, and Sudan. SRSG-SVC is also engaged in the Middle East (Syria) and in Asia and the Pacific (Cambodia). Despite strong prohibitions of international law, enforcement mechanisms against sexual violence are fragile or do not exist in many parts of the world.\nToday.\nSexual violence against women in modern warfare constitutes a grave violation of human rights, with devastating consequences that persist long after conflicts cease. In conflicts such as the Bosnian War in the 1990s, women endured widespread sexual violence, including systematic rape camps, as a tool of ethnic cleansing. The Rwandan Genocide in 1994 also saw the use of sexual violence as a weapon, with an estimated 250,000 to 500,000 women experiencing sexual assault.\nThe conflict in Syria has witnessed a disturbing pattern of sexual violence, including rape, forced marriage, and human trafficking. The Yazidi women in Iraq faced horrific atrocities at the hands of ISIS, experiencing sexual slavery and systemic violence.\nDuring Hamas' surprise attack on Israel, acts of sexual violence against Israelis have been reported, including rape, mutilation and torture. Similar atrocities have been reported against Palestinians, including rape, sexualized torture and mutilation."}
{"id": "731639", "revid": "779224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731639", "title": "Murray Rose", "text": "Iain Murray Rose, (6 January 1939 \u2013 15 April 2012) was an Australian swimmer, who swam for the University of Southern California, and worked as an actor, sports commentator and marketing executive. He was a six-time Olympic medalist (four gold, one silver, one bronze), and at one time held the world records in the 400-metre, 800-metre, and 1500-metre freestyle (long course). He made his Olympic debut at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne as a 17-year-old and won three Olympic medals, all gold. Four years later, as a 21-year-old, he won three Olympic medals (one gold, one silver, one bronze) at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy.\nBiography.\nEarly life.\nIain Murray Rose was born on 6 January 1939 in Birmingham, England, UK to parents Eileen and Ian Rose. As World War II broke out, his family moved to Australia in 1940 when he was a baby. He started swimming as a boy and attended Cranbrook School in Bellevue Hill, Sydney. He swam regularly at Redleaf Pool, an enclosed saltwater swimming pool in the suburb of Double Bay. In 2012, the pool was renamed Murray Rose Pool in his honour.\nCareer.\nAt the age of 17, Rose participated in the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne. He won the 400-metre and 1500-metre freestyle races and was a member of the winning team in the 4\u00d7200-metre freestyle relay. Winning three gold medals in his home country immediately made him a national hero. He was the youngest Olympian to be awarded three gold medals at one Olympic Games. Afterwards, Rose moved to the United States to accept an athletic scholarship at the University of Southern California (USC) where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business/Communications. Rose introduced the swim brief made by Speedo at the 1956 Olympics.\nHe continued competing while at USC, and graduated in 1962. At the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy, Rose again won an Olympic gold medal in the 400m freestyle, as well as a silver in the 1500m freestyle and a bronze in the freestyle relay, bringing his total to six Olympic medals. In addition to his Olympic medals, he won four gold medals at the 1962 Commonwealth Games in Perth, Western Australia. He eventually set 15 world records, including the world record in the 800-metre freestyle in 1962, which was not broken until Semyon Belits-Geiman set a new record in 1966. Rose missed the 1964 Tokyo Olympics as he was attending university in the United States at the time of Australia's Olympic trials and so was omitted from their Olympic team; he had set world records for 880 yard and 1,500 metre freestyle event earlier in the months before the Games and would have been a medal favourite.\nDuring the 1960s, he also pursued an acting career, starring in two Hollywood films and making guest appearances on television shows such as \"Adventure Unlimited\".\nIn addition, Rose worked as an Australian sports commentator for the Nine Network, plus each of the major US networks, participating in seven consecutive Olympic Games.\nRose continued to compete as a masters swimmer. In 1981, he won the World Masters title in faster times than he recorded at the 1956 Games.\nFrom 1988-94, Rose was vice-president of California Sports Marketing specialising in marketing, sponsorships and promotions for the Los Angeles Lakers basketball team and special events at the Great Western Forum.\nHe returned to Sydney with his family in 1994 and worked as a Senior Account Director for Sports Marketing and Management \u2013 the official marketing agent for the Australian Olympic Committee, the Australian Commonwealth Games Association and a range of other leading Australian sports organisations.\nAn avenue at Sydney Olympic Park was named for him in 2000. He was one of the eight flag-bearers of the Olympic Flag at the 2000 Summer Olympics opening ceremony in Sydney.\nIn 2010, Rose led a team on a pilgrimage for Military History Tours to Gallipoli and a 4.5\u00a0km swim from Europe to Asia across the Dardanelles.\nIn 2012, Redleaf Pool in Double Bay, Sydney, was officially renamed Murray Rose Pool in his honour. In 2022 Cranbrook School named its new swimming complex on New South Head Road the Murray Rose Aquatic &amp; Fitness Centre.\nWork in film and television.\nIn 1958, he appeared on \"You Bet Your Life\" where he was baffled by the world geography questions. On 6 January 1959, Rose appeared as a guest challenger on the TV panel show \"To Tell the Truth\" where he stumped the panel as they all voted for the wrong person.\nHe made his acting debut in the 1962 Australian live drama \"My Three Angels\". He also guest starred in an episode of \"Adventure Unlimited\".\nLater he starred in the 1964 surf movie \"Ride the Wild Surf\" and in \"Ice Station Zebra\" in 1968. He also made periodic appearances in television and film including guest spots on \"Dr Kildare\", \"You Bet Your Life\", \"The Patty Duke Show\", \"Dream Rider\", \"Time Capsule 1932\" and \"Time Capsule 1938\".\nCharity.\nRose held a number of cause-related Board positions including the Mary MacKillop Foundation and Patron of Rainbow Club Australia, a non-profit charity providing children with special needs the opportunity to explore their abilities through sporting and recreational activities. In 2012, Rainbow Club Australia renamed their annual event, The Murray Rose's Malabar Magic Ocean Swim. The MRMM offers a two swim program of 1\u00a0km and 2.4\u00a0km\nHonours.\nHe was among the first swimmers inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame, in 1965, was voted Australia's greatest male Olympian by his peers in 1983, and inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1985.\nRose was appointed a Member of the Order of Australia (AM) in 2000 for services to swimming. He also received the Australian Sports Medal that year and, in 2001, he was awarded the Centenary Medal.\nIn 2023, he was inducted into the Swimming Australia Hall of Fame.\nBooks.\nMurray Rose's father, Ian F Rose, published Faith, Love, and Seaweed about his son's childhood and diet.\nIn 2013, Murray Rose's memoir \"Life is Worth Swimming\" was posthumously published. Written before his leukaemia diagnosis, \"Life is Worth Swimming\" reflects on Rose's life and experiences as an Olympic swimmer.\nPersonal life.\nRose married ballerina Jodi Wintz on 20 October 1988. Their son was born in 1990. He was previously married to Bobbie Whitby and he adopted her daughter.\nRose was a strict vegetarian in his swimming days \u2013 this earned him the nickname \"The Seaweed Streak\" \u2013 but he later added meat to his diet.\nRose died of leukaemia on 15 April 2012 at the age of 73 in Sydney, New South Wales."}
{"id": "731640", "revid": "50217016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731640", "title": "Document retrieval", "text": "Document retrieval is defined as the matching of some stated user query against a set of free-text records. These records could be any type of mainly unstructured text, such as newspaper articles, real estate records or paragraphs in a manual. User queries can range from multi-sentence full descriptions of an information need to a few words.\nDocument retrieval is sometimes referred to as, or as a branch of, text retrieval. Text retrieval is a branch of information retrieval where the information is stored primarily in the form of text. Text databases became decentralized thanks to the personal computer. Text retrieval is a critical area of study today, since it is the fundamental basis of all internet search engines.\nDescription.\nDocument retrieval systems find information to given criteria by matching text records (\"documents\") against user queries, as opposed to expert systems that answer questions by inferring over a logical knowledge database. A document retrieval system consists of a database of documents, a classification algorithm to build a full text index, and a user interface to access the database.\nA document retrieval system has two main tasks:\nInternet search engines are classical applications of document retrieval. The vast majority of retrieval systems currently in use range from simple Boolean systems through to systems using statistical or natural language processing techniques.\nVariations.\nThere are two main classes of indexing schemata for document retrieval systems: \"form based\" (or \"word based\"), and \"content based\" indexing. The document classification scheme (or indexing algorithm) in use determines the nature of the document retrieval system.\nForm based.\nForm based document retrieval addresses the exact syntactic properties of a text, comparable to substring matching in string searches. The text is generally unstructured and not necessarily in a natural language, the system could for example be used to process large sets of chemical representations in molecular biology. A suffix tree algorithm is an example for form based indexing.\nContent based.\nThe content based approach exploits semantic connections between documents and parts thereof, and semantic connections between queries and documents. Most content based document retrieval systems use an inverted index algorithm.\nA \"signature file\" is a technique that creates a \"quick and dirty\" filter, for example a Bloom filter, that will keep all the documents that match to the query and \"hopefully\" a few ones that do not. The way this is done is by creating for each file a signature, typically a hash coded version. One method is superimposed coding. A post-processing step is done to discard the false alarms. Since in most cases this structure is inferior to inverted indexes in terms of speed, size and functionality, it is not used widely. However, with proper parameters it can beat the inverted indexes in certain environments.\nExample: PubMed.\nThe PubMed form interface features the \"related articles\" search which works through a comparison of words from the documents' title, abstract, and MeSH terms using a word-weighted algorithm."}
{"id": "731641", "revid": "3492060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731641", "title": "List of bike trails in Wisconsin", "text": "The following is a partial list of biking trails in Wisconsin:"}
{"id": "731642", "revid": "1808194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731642", "title": "Maris Crane", "text": ""}
{"id": "731644", "revid": "2790592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731644", "title": "Mind-set", "text": ""}
{"id": "731645", "revid": "811781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731645", "title": "Funky Winkerbean", "text": "Funky Winkerbean was an American comic strip by Tom Batiuk. Distributed by North America Syndicate, a division of King Features Syndicate, it appeared in more than 400 newspapers worldwide.\nWhile Batiuk was a 23-year-old middle school art teacher in Elyria, Ohio, he began drawing cartoons while supervising study hall. In 1970, his characters first appeared as a weekly panel, \"Rapping Around\", on the teenage page of the \"Elyria Chronicle Telegram\". In 1972, Batiuk reworked some of the characters into a daily strip, which he sold to Publishers-Hall Syndicate.\nThroughout its 50-year run, the strip went through several format changes. For the first 20 years of its run, the characters did not age, and the strip was nominally episodic as opposed to a serial, with humor derived from visual gags and the eccentricity of the characters. In 1992, Batiuk rebooted the strip, establishing that the characters had graduated from high school in 1988 (although later strips showed them graduating in 1972), and the series began progressing in real time. In 2007, a second \"time warp\" occurred, this time taking the strip ten years into the future, ostensibly to 2017, although the events of the strip still reflected a then-contemporary setting. Following the 1992 reboot and especially after the 2007 time jump, the strip was recast as a serialized drama, though most strips still featured some humor, often based on wordplay. The more drama-oriented \"Funky Winkerbean\" featured story arcs revolving around such topics as terminal cancer, adoption, prisoners of war, drug abuse, post-traumatic stress, same-sex couples attending the senior prom, and interracial marriage.\nOn November 17, 2022, Batiuk announced that he would be retiring the strip at the end of the year. \"Funky Winkerbean\" ended on December 31, 2022, but many of the strip's characters\u2014including Funky himself\u2014then began to be seen regularly in Batiuk's long-running spin-off strip \"Crankshaft\".\nCharacters and story.\nCentered at Westview High School, influenced by Batiuk's alma mater of Midview High School near Grafton, Ohio, the strip initially focused on several students: Funky Winkerbean, Crazy Harry Klinghorn, Barry Balderman, \"Bull\" Bushka, Cindy Summers, Junebug, Roland Mathews, Livinia Swenson, Leslie P. \"Les\" Moore, majorette Holly Budd (daughter of Melinda Budd, original majorette for Westview High), and Lisa Crawford.\nFrom 1972 to 1992, the strip was highly gag-oriented, with humor coming from physical and prop comedy and surreal situations: running gags included the school's computer having become sentient and subjecting the students to its obsession with \"Star Trek\"; student \"Crazy\" Harry's ability to play pizzas like records; the school's winless football team; and band director Harry L. Dinkle's attempts to win each year's \"Battle of the Bands,\" despite the contest always coinciding with a natural disaster (usually heavy rain).\nAlthough the titular everyman Funky Winkerbean was the ostensible main character, nerds Les Moore and Lisa Crawford became breakout characters and the strip's primary focus. Supporting characters included obsessive majorette Holly (who never removed her uniform), \"Crazy\" Harry (who lived in his locker), Jerome T. \"Bull\" Bushka (the school's star athlete and Les's tormentor), and popular girl Cindy. Rounding out the cast was the Westview High staff, including Principal Al Burch, counselor Fred Fairgood, secretary Betty Reynolds (who actually ran the school), teachers Rita Wrighton, Ann Randall (who would become Fred's wife in 1984) and Ginny Wolfe, and football coach John \"Jack\" Stropp and band director Harry L. Dinkle.\nThe name \"Funky Winkerbean\" was a composite from suggestions from some of Batiuk's art students.\n1992 relaunch (Act II).\nIn 1992, Batiuk changed the strip's format. It was established that Funky, Les, Cindy and all the rest of the previous cast had graduated from Westview in 1988; their college years were skipped, and the story continued in their adulthood. Subsequently, the characters aged in real time and underwent significant life changes. Funky married Cindy in 1998; they later divorced in 2002. Les and Lisa married in a Halloween-themed 1996 story that saw them dressed as Batman and Robin. Funky now co-owned the local pizza parlor with Tony Montoni, Les taught English at Westview, Crazy Harry was the local mailman, Bull was the Scapegoats' coach, and Cindy a national-level television newscaster. The strip followed their stories as well as those of a new generation at Westview, including Wally, Becky, Darin and Monroe. Overtly whimsical elements were now downplayed, and some of the series' running gags from the 1972\u201392 years were recast in a more serious light. For instance, Bull's hectoring of Les became the focus of a storyline on domestic violence and child abuse when it was revealed in 1998 that Bull abused Les to cope with being abused by his own father.\nThough humorous storylines remained a mainstay, the strip also examined subjects more traditionally associated with soap opera or serialized comics. Most notably, a teenage pregnancy storyline had Lisa becoming pregnant as a teenager; she placed the child for adoption. Her child, Darin, grew up with his adopted family and became a regular character. Other storylines dealt with suicide, teen dating violence, capital punishment, alcoholism (Funky himself struggled with alcoholism and recovery), and other grim subjects.\nPerhaps the most widely discussed storylines involved characters who went through catastrophic suffering. In 2005, Batiuk sent newlyweds Wally Winkerbean and Becky to Afghanistan as a part of an anti-landmine effort by the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation; Wally nearly died after stepping on a mine. He was saved when his Afghan companion Kahn managed to knock the mine away, only to be punched out for selling the Stinger that killed his fellow troops. The couple returned to the US with an adopted daughter, Rana, who was left orphaned after her family was killed by a suicide bomber. \nEven more attention was focused on the ongoing suffering and eventual death of Lisa Crawford Moore.\nLisa's story.\nA recurring storyline for many years was Lisa Moore's battle with breast cancer. She first dealt with it when diagnosed in 1999. Soon after, she learned that Holly Budd was also a breast cancer survivor. After going through chemotherapy and a mastectomy, Lisa's cancer went into remission. \nIn March 2006, Lisa's cancer returned in a more serious form. Following another round of chemotherapy, her cancer appeared to go into remission again in early 2007, but on May 9, 2007, her doctor revealed that her medical charts had gotten mixed up and her disease was not only progressing, but had become inoperable. In a King Features press release, it was revealed that \"Lisa will start chemo again, learn that her long-range prospects are poor, stop chemotherapy, deal with telling her daughter about her cancer situation, [and] testify before Congress about the need for cancer research and cope with friends and family.\" Batiuk was very open about the fact that Lisa's latest ordeal would end with her death and some of the events that would happen as a result.\nThe series polarized the comics community, with Batiuk being both praised for dealing with the topic and criticized for his graphic depiction of Lisa's slow deterioration and ultimate death. The entire storyline, which culminated with Lisa's death in the October 4, 2007, strip (excerpt at right), was collected and published in a book, \"Lisa's Story: The Other Shoe\". This book, which includes the strips from Lisa's initial battle with cancer (which had itself been collected in book form in 2004), was published before the series had finished running in syndication. In 2007, Batiuk discussed his reasoning for pursuing the plotline, saying that he was inspired by his own battle against prostate cancer.\nSecond time jump (Act III).\nOn October 21, 2007, \"Funky Winkerbean\" underwent its second \"time warp,\" this time jumping 10 years ahead from Lisa's death and aging the cast of characters accordingly; those that were children are now high school age, and the original cast are in their mid-forties. Readers got a preview of the new-look feature starting with the October 5 strip in which a middle-aged widower Les talks to an unseen psychologist about events that immediately followed Lisa's passing, which are then depicted in flashback form. The October 21 strip shows a younger Les talking with Summer about death in general to help her understand that of Lisa's, before switching to the new-look Moores in the closing frames, and the first week of strips that followed, following the Moores participating in a Making Strides walk, have a banner saying \"Act III: Ten Years Later\" in the first frame (an \"Act III\" statement directing readers to the official website was discreetly included in fine print for some time afterward).\nThe relaunched \"Funky\", Batiuk said, \"is going to be a different strip, a little bit quieter.\" He also promised that despite Lisa's death, she will remain a presence in strip through flashbacks, remembrances, and a series of videos she recorded for daughter Summer just before she died. Montoni's will have opened several locations, including in New York City, Summer will have grown into a popular 15-year-old basketball star (in contrast to her geeky father), and Bull's adopted daughter Jinx, as well as Becky's adopted daughter Rana, are high-school aged. Batiuk explained that he wanted the comic to move so far ahead in order to prevent it from being an extended grieving process, to ensure that the next generation of students he followed were related to the original cast of characters, and to bring his original characters' ages closer to his target audience's. After the flash forward, all the strip's prominent adult male characters\u2014Funky, Les, Bull and Crazy Harry\u2014are 46 years old.\nMajor storylines.\nWhile a few of the mainstay elements\u2014most notably, storylines revolving around the Westview High School band and now-retired director Harry Dinkle, and classroom spot gags\u2014reappear in Act III on occasion, the focus once again is on dramatic storylines with continuing story arcs:\nReturn of Wally Winkerbean.\nWally Winkerbean\u2014who had returned to Iraq before the relaunch\u2014is not in the core cast as shown on the Funky Winkerbean website, and it was also revealed that Becky had remarried (John Howard, owner of the Comics Emporium) sometime in the 10 years after Lisa's death. For nearly two years after the relaunch, Wally's fate remained unknown, although early on, Batiuk wrote on his blog that what happened to Wally \"may not be what you think happened.\" Batiuk also revealed that a \"clue\" to Wally's fate could be found in the October 11 strip, which features Les getting mugged in New York after Lisa's death after walking past a newspaper vending machine with a headline saying \"Soldiers Taken Hostage.\"\nSeveral strips made allusions to Wally's disappearance, including one featuring Becky Howard's car having a POW/MIA bumper sticker and her placing a U.S. flag on an unidentified grave. In the July 12, 2009, strip, it is finally shown that Wally is alive and in full military uniform; a backstory reveals that Funky got a call from his ex-wife, Cindy, informing him that Wally was alive and that she had conducted an interview that was to air on the news that evening. It is revealed that Wally has been held as a prisoner of war in Iraq for the past decade (possibly taken hostage around the time of Lisa's death), and\u2014unaware that he was presumed dead and that Becky had remarried\u2014said during that interview that what kept him sane during his time in captivity was thinking about his wife and family. Funky visits the Howards to reveal that Wally is alive and in good health. In the August 9, 2009, strip, it is revealed that the grave Becky had visited all these years was that of Wally's assumed remains. Wally has made occasional appearances since his return to Westview, and his first appearance as a central character in a storyline that began on February 1, 2010.\nOther storylines.\nDarin Fairgood, another prominent character who appeared in the strip throughout Act II, had also been unseen since the 2007 relaunch, but reappeared in the April 1, 2008 strip alongside Eric \"Mooch\" Myers and John Howard helping his old high school buddy Pete Roberts move back into town. Pete is the latest resident of the apartment above Montoni's. Les and Lisa lived there before buying their home. Becky and Wally took it over, and then apparently during the time jump John and Becky lived there together before John turned it into a storage space for his comics, probably since the basement shop has flooded in the past.\nDuring 2010, Funky became the central character in a storyline in which he has a flashback to his high school days 30 years earlier in Westview. The flashback ran concurrently with a storyline where Funky was seriously injured in a car accident, caused by a young woman whose car veers into the path of Funky's car while she was talking on a cellphone while driving. During several flashback scenes, Funky had seen (and in some cases, visited with) teen-aged versions of himself, Crazy Harry and Holly Budd (Funky's wife-to-be), and a younger Mr. Dinkle\u2014all as they appeared in \"Funky Winkerbean \" strips in the early 1980s. Although the recovery aspect of the accident storyline continued into the fall, the flashback scenes ended when Funky regained consciousness at the hospital.\nA storyline that began in April 2012 featured a same-sex couple wanting to go to Westview High School's prom together and purchasing tickets from Jinx Bushka, a member of the Senior Prom committee. The story explored the reaction from Westview residents, most notably anti-LBGT activist and head of the Senior Prom parent volunteers Roberta Blackburn, who launches an effort to stop the couple from attending prom by forming a protest outside the school. When a group of students led by Summer Moore supporting LBGT couples attending the prom plan a counter-protest, principal Nate Green defuses the situation by calling a school assembly and announces that gay couples will be allowed to attend the prom, and that he will not have intolerance at Westview High School be a policy issue during his tenure.\nSome time after Lisa's death, Les begins dating Cayla Williams, a black teacher at Westview High. Their relationship blossoms into love and in the fall of 2012, the two were married. Also that fall, Les's daughter, Summer, and Cayla's daughter, Keisha, begin attending college. In April 2013, a storyline began revolving around Darin Fairgood's biological father, Frankie Piece, attempting to meet his biological son; this coincided with the release of Les's book \"Lisa's Story\", detailing her life, battle with breast cancer and events since her death. Frankie, alongside his friend, Lenny Gant, eventually meets with Darin, attempting to blackmail him into doing a reality series about their reunion, but Les, Cayla and the rest of the gang\u2014aware that the show's only objective was to tarnish Lisa's name and character\u2014help Darin thwart Frankie's plans.\nIn January 2013, Fred Fairgood\u2014now retired as principal of Westview High\u2014suffered a major stroke and was barely alive at the hospital; he is later shown to be recovering at home, although he is disabled. As Fred is beginning his recovery, a woman identifying herself as Kerry Fairgood, Fred's daughter (from a previous relationship, before he married Ann) shows up at the hospital and proves that she is indeed his biological daughter. Ann Fairgood is forced to admit that her marriage to Fred was not the happy one they had made it out to be publicly and that they shielded Darin from their unhappiness.\nIn 2011, before Fred Fairgood fell ill, another longtime Westview staff member\u2014Jock Strapp, the former football coach and physical education teacher\u2014had died of prostate cancer, although this was acknowledged only briefly.\nIn 2013 Funky's wife Holly\u2014whose son Cory is in Afghanistan\u2014finds that he has an old \"Starbuck Jones\" comic book collection and begins collecting missing issues to make the collection complete; she soon has issues #7; #123; #54; #104; #36 (on eBay); #216; and in July 2014 during a week-long cliffhanger searches for the rare and elusive #115. First missing it at a comic book convention and then losing it when her credit card would not work, she finally finds #115, along with an equally rare \"Ashcan\" version (a penciled version of a comic strip before the final printing). When a couple gives her a \"Starbuck Jones\" comic book Holly presents them with a \"Holy Grail\" of \"Action Comics\" #243.\nDuring the summer of 2015, the present-day incarnations of the Westview gang meet up with their teen-aged selves during a class reunion; it is revealed in the storyline's finale that Les\u2014who helped organize the event\u2014had passed out during the reunion (for unexplained reasons) and was having a dream.\nIn 2019, Bull dealt with the effects of chronic traumatic encephalopathy. The storyline included Bull's death.\nContinuity with other strips.\nThe continuity of the \"Crankshaft\" strip is as much as 20 years behind that of \"Funky Winkerbean\"; strips in both comics in August and September 2011 show Cayla Williams, a high school teacher and secretary to Principal Nate Green and Les's fianc\u00e9e, with Keisha her teenage daughter, to be a college-age student in the former. In the January 27, 2015, installment of \"Funky Winkerbean\", a throwback crossover shows \"Crankshaft\" as a bus driver, while \"Crankshaft\" also has a throwback crossover that shows \"Crankshaft\" as a bus driver on \"Funky Winkerbean\". This time difference between the strips was gradually retconned away as \"Funky Winkerbean\" finished its run in 2022, with the characters crossing over more frequently through the year in the same timeframe, culminating in the week leading up to Christmas showing characters traveling to and meeting up at a church choir concert in \"Crankshaft's\" Centerville.\nOn January 19, 2015, \"Funky Winkerbean\" began a crossover with \"Dick Tracy\" when two of the \"Winkerbean\" characters decided to attend a police auction of stolen comic books recovered from the \"Dick Tracy\" criminal the \"Jumbler\". \"Dick Tracy\" has a concurrent crossover with \"Funky Winkerbean\" concerning the comic book auction.\nThird time jump (the final week).\nFunky and the rest of the cast last appeared on the Christmas Day 2022 episode. The final week was set in the late 21st century. Summer's granddaughter (also named Lisa) found two books in a robot-staffed bookstore; \"Westview\", written by Summer, and \"Lisa's Story: The Other Shoe\", written by Les. It was explained that a mass book burning (referred to as the Burnings) had taken place in the past, but somehow these books survived, and Summer was famous due to the success of \"Westview\". The last episode saw Lisa Jr's mother telling her to retire for the night, and the final panel had both books on Lisa Jr's bed. John Byrne did the art for the final week.\nControversy.\nThe more dramatic turns of the storyline have led to mixed responses from readers. Negative reaction to a 2007 strip featuring Wally getting blown up by an I.E.D. (which turned out in the next strip to be him playing a computer game), included two papers that ran the strip receiving irate phone calls and letters to the editor, and led to Batiuk issuing an apology soon after the strip ran.\nReactions to later chapters of Lisa's Story led to further complaints over the comic's gloomy content, and Batiuk has mentioned in interviews that he has received complaints about the direction of the storyline. Web comic \"Shortpacked\" produced a satirical strip in which most of the words of \"Funky Winkerbean\" characters' dialogue are replaced by the word \"cancer.\" The Comics Curmudgeon also made frequent reference to the seemingly unremitting gloom of the strip, calling it \"a black hole of bleakness and depression and cancer from which no joy or laughter can escape.\" The strip has also inspired two blogs, \"Stuck Funky\" (which has been inactive since 2010) and \"Son of Stuck Funky\" (the second blog, which started soon after Stuck Funky stopped posting) which provides commentary on both FW and \"Crankshaft\".\nA \"Crankshaft\" strip from May 23, 2007, sarcastically addresses the controversy from Batiuk's perspective, with a character remarking of newspaper comic strips that \"everyone knows they're supposed to be funny\". In the \"Funky Winkerbean\" strip published on September 30, 2007, Les essentially echoes the \"Crankshaft\" comment.\nIn a September 2009 storyline that many readers also interpreted as Batiuk's addressing of the strip's latter-day bleakness, a group of parents protested a school production of \"Wit\" because the themes of cancer and death offended them. In her defense of the play, the character of Susan Smith, a Westview High teacher and drama director, was viewed by critics as a mouthpiece for Batiuk's views on the importance of dramatic entertainment.\nOver the week of July 7, 2008, \"Pearls Before Swine\" parodied the tendency of \"Funky Winkerbean\" towards killing off main characters when it killed off Rat and the strip's own author, Stephan Pastis (the two would later be returned to the strip via the intervention of the head of United Feature Syndicate), with Tom Batiuk even allowing Pastis to use his representation of the Angel of Death (unofficially named Masky McDeath) in the second to last strip in the series. A year earlier, as part of a long series featuring Rat getting stranded in Surprise, Arizona, Pastis remarked to Pig that serial strips handle long stories better and featured Funky, Holly, Lisa, and Les in a parody referencing, among other things, Funky's alcoholism and both Holly and Lisa's breast cancer. Pastis was given Batiuk's blessing to run the strip, but just before it was scheduled to run the controversy over the cancer storyline grew to the point where Pastis pulled it from publication as he believed, although he never mentioned the disease by name, anyone who read his strip could infer that he was making light of cancer patients and Pastis did not wish to have \"Pearls\" drawn into the controversy.\nSpinoffs.\nTwo minor characters have been spun off into their own strips: the bus driver \"Crankshaft\" in 1987 and the talk show host \"John Darling\" in 1979. The latter ended in 1990 when Batiuk had Darling murdered in the penultimate strip after a real-life financial dispute with the strip's syndicator. In \"Funky Winkerbean\", Les Moore wrote a book about Darling's murder and solved the case in a 1997 storyline.\nComic book connections.\nBatiuk's neighbor, comic book writer Jenny Isabella, occasionally appeared in the strip as herself. Another comic book creator, superhero artist John Byrne, drew ten weeks of the strip while Batiuk was recovering from foot surgery in 2003 and during the final week of the strip, and has appeared in the strip himself in 2005 as a character.\nBatiuk also occasionally parodies covers of classic Silver Age comics to comment on storyline elements in the strip itself. This is usually done in the Sunday comic and features a cover and a current storyline being highlighted. An example is the October 27, 2013 strip, which featured the cover of Superboy Volume 1, #57. This cover showed the title character playing many positions in baseball, highlighting the then-current storyline where Bull Bushka is Westview High School's Athletic Director, Girls Basketball Coach, and was named the school's head football coach.\nMontoni's Pizza is modeled after Luigi's, an Italian restaurant and pizzeria in downtown Akron, Ohio. There is a framed and signed \"Funky Winkerbean\" strip hung in the restaurant. The band box frequently shown in the interior of the shop above the entrance is an actual fixture in the restaurant.\nAfter the second time skip, Batiuk designed the comic book store around the shop he frequents, Ground Zero Comics and Cards in Strongsville, Ohio. Captain America's shield that is frequently shown in the background is on the mantel in the shop.\nIn a 2011 interview, Batiuk said that the character Harry L. Dinkle, self-proclaimed as the \"World's Greatest Band Director,\" is modeled after Harry Pfingsten (1935-2021), who taught music at Grafton Junior High when Batiuk was a student there in the late 1950s before becoming the band director at Avon Lake High School from 1964 to 1991. This connection had also been reported in 2006 in the \"Cleveland Free Times\". There had been speculation that Dinkle was also modeled on the director of The Ohio State University Marching Band, specifically Paul Droste and Jon Woods. In 1989, Harry L. Dinkle was the first comic strip character ever to \"march\" the Tournament of Roses parade. Dinkles, a brand of shoe designed for marching bands, is named after the character and claims to have been endorsed by Dinkle since 1986.\nMusical.\nBatiuk assisted in the writing of a stage musical adaptation of the strip, entitled \"Funky Winkerbean's Homecoming\", set in the era while Funky was still in high school. It was performed by at least one high school drama group, beginning in 1988. Despite the title, Funky is actually a fairly minor character in the play; the focal character of \"Funky Winkerbean's Homecoming\" is Les Moore.\nThe musical was co-written by Andy Clark, who much later appeared as himself in the comic strip in December 2006 and June 2020. Clark is a publisher of the C. L. Barnhouse Company, and has published several \"Funky Winkerbean\" collections dedicated to the character of Harry L. Dinkle."}
{"id": "731651", "revid": "27335766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731651", "title": "Mechanicals", "text": ""}
{"id": "731652", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731652", "title": "Mergers", "text": ""}
{"id": "731653", "revid": "50176159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731653", "title": "Red wattlebird", "text": "The red wattlebird (Anthochaera carunculata) is a passerine bird native to southern Australia. At in length, it is the second largest species of Australian honeyeater, after the yellow wattlebird. It has mainly grey-brown plumage, with red eyes, distinctive pinkish-red wattles on either side of the neck, white streaks on the chest and a large bright yellow patch on the lower belly. The sexes are similar in plumage. Juveniles have less prominent wattles and browner eyes. John White described the red wattlebird in 1790. Three subspecies are recognized.\nThe species is found in southeast Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and southwest Western Australia in open forest and woodland, and is a common visitor to urban gardens and parks. Loud and conspicuous, the red wattlebird is generally found in trees, where it gets most of its food; occasionally it forages on the ground. It is one of the largest nectarivorous birds in the world, feeding from a wide variety of flowering plants. Insects also comprise part of its diet. It is territorial and at times aggressive towards birds of other species, often defending rich sources of nectar. Breeding throughout its range, the red wattlebird builds a cup-shaped nest in a tree and raises one or two broods a year. Although it has declined in places from land-clearing, it is classified as Least Concern on the IUCN Red List.\nTaxonomy.\nThe red wattlebird was first described as the wattled bee-eater by the Irish surgeon and naturalist John White in his \"Journal of a Voyage to New South Wales\", which was published in 1790. He wrote that it was the \"size of a missel thrush, but much larger in proportion\". The taxonomic descriptions in White's book are believed to have been written by the English naturalist George Shaw, who is generally credited as the author by subsequent authorities. The specific epithet, \"carunculata\", was introduced later in the same year by John Latham. The word is derived from \"caruncula\", Latin for 'a small piece of flesh'. Both Shaw and Latham assigned the red wattlebird to the genus \"Merops\". The species was moved to \"Anthochaera\" in 1827 by the naturalists Nicholas Aylward Vigors and Thomas Horsfield. The generic name derives from the Ancient Greek 'flower, bloom' and 'enjoy'.\n\"Red wattlebird\" has been designated as the official common name for the species by the International Ornithologists' Union (IOC). Other common names include gillbird, gilly warbler, barkingbird, muttonbird, butcherbird, what's o clock, and chock. Unlike many species in southwestern Australia, the red wattlebird was given names by the local indigenous people that were onomatopoeic (sounding like the calls they make). Names recorded include \"wodjalok\", \"durdal\", \"doongorok\", and \"djoongong\" (this last name is also applied to the western wattlebird). In the Eyre Peninsula in South Australia, the local Barngarla people knew it as \"ngarkarko\" or \"ngarkabukko\". The local people of Denial Bay in South Australia called it \"noggal\", and the Ngarrindjeri people of the Lower Murray region in South Australia know it as \"rungkan\".\nThere are three recognised subspecies, though there is a zone of intermediate birds across western Victoria and eastern South Australia, bordered by western Port Phillip Bay to the east, Mount Lofty Ranges to the west, and Little and Big Desert national parks to the north. The differences in plumage are not generally prominent enough to be noticeable in the field.\nAnalysis of DNA showed that the closest relative of the red wattlebird is the yellow wattlebird of Tasmania, the pair splitting from the ancestor of the regent honeyeater\u2014their next closest relative. Honeyeaters are related to the Pardalotidae (pardalotes), Acanthizidae (Australian warblers, scrubwrens, thornbills, etc.), and Maluridae (Australian fairy-wrens) in the large superfamily Meliphagoidea.\nDescription.\nThe sexes of the red wattlebird are similar in size and plumage, the length of the adult male ranging from and the adult female from . With an average weight of , the red wattlebird is one of the largest nectar-feeding birds in the world, and the second largest species of honeyeater native to Australia, eclipsed only by the yellow wattlebird. The crown, forehead and upper lores (area between the eyes and nostrils) are dark brown, streaked with pale brown at the front of the crown and white at the rear of the crown. The nape (back of the neck) is slightly paler brown, with white streaks. A whitish triangular marking covers the lower lores and anterior ear covert feathers, bordered below by a dark brown stripe from the lower mandible down to the wattle and around to behind the eye. The throat is dark brown streaked with white. The iris of the eye is orange-red to crimson. The distinctive pinkish-red wattles dangle from the lower rear corner of the ear coverts on either side of the neck, and there is a sliver of pink bare skin at the lower border of the white patch on the face. The chest and belly are streaked white, and there is a bright yellow patch towards the tail. The strong legs and feet are pink or pinkish-brown, and the downward-curving bill is black. The average dimensions of the bill are long, wide, and high at its base. The gape is grey-black, while the inside of the mouth is orange. In common with other honeyeaters, the red wattlebird has a long, specialized tongue to extract nectar from flowers. The tongue can extend well beyond the tip of the bill, and is divided at the end to form a brush-like structure with over a hundred bristles that soak up nectar by capillary action.\nThe red wattlebird begins moulting after the breeding season, starting with the primary flight feathers in November or December, and finishing between the following March and May. The feathers of the breast, back, median and lesser covert feathers are moulted before those of the crown, remiges, and rectrices.\nImmature red wattlebirds are generally less flamboyant. Juveniles have much less prominent wattles, brown irises, a pale crown, and much less yellow on the belly. They moult into first immature plumage within a few months of leaving the nest. First immature birds are more similar to adults overall, having red irises with brown rings, wattles larger but still smaller than adults, and a greyish pink gape.\nThe red wattlebird is hard to confuse with any other species, though in poor visibility it might be mistaken for the spiny-cheeked honeyeater, or little or western wattlebirds.\nCall.\nRed wattlebirds are noisy animals, producing a range of raucous calls. Pairs of birds appear to duet, particularly at food sources, with the male producing a loud cackle and the female a whistling call. The male's cackle is loudest between 1\u00a0and 3\u00a0kHz frequency. A guttural-sounding call, it has been variously described as having a squawking, coughing or hiccuping sound. Males cackle when foraging by themselves, when with other birds, or when declaring their territory to other birds. The whistling call consists of up to five rapid whistles that may or may not ascend in tone, and are repeated 3\u20134 times. Both sexes commonly utter a single \"chock\" note that may be harsh and guttural or have 4\u20135 harmonics. This is thought to be a contact call. These calls all carry over long distances.\nRed wattlebirds utter two types of alarm calls, alternating between them while mobbing other animals. One is a harsh call over a wide frequency (1.3 to 5.9\u00a0kHz) that is louder at lower frequencies. The other is a lower-pitched staccato call with a frequency of 1.1\u20132.2\u00a0kHz. They give a harsh call when trying to distract intruders from the vicinity of the nest or when picked up, often trying to flap or peck the handler.\nDistribution and habitat.\nThe red wattlebird is found in southeast Queensland, where it occurs south of Noosa and Cooloola, becoming more common south of Brisbane and Toowoomba. Further south into New South Wales it is found most places east of (and including) the Great Dividing Range and stretching west to the southern North-West Plain, Central Western Slopes and eastern Riverina, and is an occasional visitor to points along the Murray River valley. It is found across Victoria, though is uncommon in the northwest of the state. In South Australia, Devonborough Downs Station, Manunda, Wilpena Pound and Nullarbor Station mark the northern limits of its range. There are scattered records from the Nullarbor Plain, but the species is common in Western Australia west of 125\u00a0\u00b0E and south of 29\u00a0\u00b0S. The yellow wattlebird replaces it in Tasmania. The red wattlebird has become more common in some localities, such as the Sunraysia district in the 1960s, and Nambucca Heads and Lefevre Peninsula in the 1980s. Breeding numbers have increased in Sydney and Adelaide. The red wattlebird is a rare vagrant to New Zealand, with confirmed records at Matakana in 1865 and Rohutu, Taranaki, in 1885, and a third unconfirmed report from Motupiko in 1938.\nThe red wattlebird appears to be a permanent resident in much of its range, though its movements are poorly known. It appears to be partly migratory in Western Australia and the north coast of New South Wales. In southeastern New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, it appears to move to lower altitudes for winter. For instance, birds vacate the Brindabella Range over the cooler months. Overall, little pattern is discernible in the species' movements, though red wattlebirds appear to move to feed on populations of flowering banksias and eucalypts, such as winter-flowering banksias in Perth over the cooler months. Large numbers arrive in time to feed on flowering native apples (\"Angophora\") in Mudgee and Cobbora districts in central-western New South Wales, and on white box (\"Eucalyptus albens\") at Barrington in central-northern New South Wales. A mainly resident population on the Swan Coastal Plain near Perth is supplemented during winter by more arriving from inland areas. South of Perth, red wattlebirds are more locally nomadic, moving to new patches of blooming wildflowers. East of Perth in areas around Kellerberin, Kwolyin, and Nangeenan, the red wattlebird is present from late autumn to spring, breeding in August and September. Around Lake Grace, the red wattlebird is present year-round.\nOpen sclerophyll forest and woodland, generally dominated by eucalypts, is the most common habitat of the species. It is more common in forests with ample shrubby or grassy understory. It is less commonly encountered in shrubland, heath, or margins of wet sclerophyll forest. It is rarely found in mature pine plantations. Within urban areas, it is abundant in parks and reserves, gardens and golf courses, as well as orchards and vineyards. It occasionally ventures into subtropical, semi-arid or subalpine regions, and has been found up to above sea level. The red wattlebird is rarer in forests that have been affected by dieback (infection by the pathogen \"Phytophthora cinnamomi\").\nBehaviour.\nA loud and active bird, the red wattlebird is found in pairs, in a small family group, or alone during the breeding season, and gathers in larger groups of up to several hundred birds over winter. It flies straight or with a slightly undulating pattern, alternating between gliding and flapping its wings with quick shallow beats, at or slightly above the level of the tree canopy. The red wattlebird moves on the ground by hopping, cocking its tail upwards slightly.\nAggressive and territorial, the red wattlebird defends its nest and sources of food against other birds. It either calls at, snaps at the tails of, or flies at other birds, sometimes scuffling with members of the same species or other large honeyeaters in the air. \"Displacement\" is a dominant display in which a red wattlebird will land on a perch that has been immediately vacated by another bird. A smaller red wattlebird adopts a horizontal \"appeasement posture\" side-on to the aggressor in which it lowers its head, flutters its wings and edges closer to the other bird. \nAs well as smaller bird species, red wattlebirds can mob and chase larger species, such as the Australian magpie (\"Gymnorhina tibicen\"), butcherbirds, currawongs, the black-faced cuckooshrike (\"Coracina novaehollandiae\"), the olive-backed oriole (\"Oriolus sagittatus\"), crows, ravens, the laughing kookaburra (\"Dacelo novaeguineae\"), and even small raptors like the collared sparrowhawk (\"Accipiter cirrocephalus\").\nBreeding.\nThe red wattlebird breeds throughout its range, with nesting taking place between July and December, though occasionally outside these months, if conditions are favourable. One or two broods are laid each year.\nRed wattlebirds generally nest as solitary pairs. The nest is a cup-shaped structure formed from sticks and leaves, lined with bark, grass, and hair, between above ground, usually in the forked branches of a tree\u2014generally a eucalypt. The nest is usually located centrally rather than on the periphery of a tree. A study in Eastwood State Forest, near Armidale in New South Wales, found that red wattlebirds preferred to nest in manna gum (\"Eucalyptus viminalis\") and apple box (\"E. bridgesiana\").\nA clutch of two or three pale brown- and lavender-spotted pinkish eggs are normally laid. They measure , and are a tapered oval in shape. The eggs are normally incubated by both parents, but sometimes just by the female. They hatch after 16\u201321 days. The chicks are born almost naked, with a small amount of grey down on their head and body. They are mostly brooded by the female, but sometimes the male will also brood. The nestlings are fed by both parents, and occasionally immature birds will contribute. Their eyes open at around 7 days. They fledge 15\u201320 days after hatching, and both parents continue to feed them for a further 2\u20133 weeks. Young are given manna (crystallised plant sap) and insects, such as beetles, bugs, and flies.\nFeeding.\nThe red wattlebird is predominantly a nectar-feeder, foraging mostly in trees; in particular, climbing along branches (rather than the trunk) and probing flower-heads with its bill. One study in Bondi State Forest in southern New South Wales revealed that the species foraged at a height of . They seldom look for food on the ground, though do so to feed on shrubs such as the cats paw (\"Anigozanthos humilis\"). The red wattlebird prioritises visiting flowers that produce a lot of nectar, such as those of eucalypts, banksias, grasstrees (\"Xanthorrhoea\"), and emu bushes (\"Eremophila\"). It often prefers plants with easy access to nectar, rather than those with tubular flowers (and thus difficult-to-access nectar). The red wattlebird seeks out yellow flower-heads of holly-leaved banksia (\"Banksia ilicifolia\"), which have much higher nectar content than the more mature red flower-heads. The species forages much more often in native than exotic plants, though the introduced coral tree (\"Erythrina\") is popular. In addition to nectar, it takes insects and other small creatures, usually by hawking, and it also feeds on berries and other fruit. A field study in the Mount Lofty Ranges found that it spent twice as much time feeding on nectar compared to insects.\nOne field study found that red wattlebirds foraged for longer periods when nectar concentrations in flowers were low, and consumed fewer insects at this time. However, this could have been because the temperature was lower and hence insects were less active. In Gingin, Western Australia, 97% of red wattlebirds at a site of two mixed kangaroo paw species were observed feeding on a single species at its peak flowering: cats paw in August and red-and-green kangaroo paw (\"A. manglesii\") in September, with very few visits to the other species or hybrids.\nIn central New South Wales, the red wattlebird forages more often on the foliage of the grey gum (\"Eucalyptus punctata\") over other trees, though it does also show some preference for narrow-leaved ironbark (\"E. crebra\"), if grey gum is not present. Red wattlebirds tend to oust noisy friarbirds (\"Philemon corniculatus\") where both species are present. The red wattlebird often forages alongside the New Holland honeyeater (\"Phylidonyris novaehollandiae\"), little friarbird (\"P. citreogularis\"), western and little wattlebirds, rainbow lorikeet (\"Trichoglossus moluccanus\"), purple-crowned lorikeet (\"Glossopsitta porphyrocephala\"), satin bowerbird (\"Ptilonorhynchus violaceus\"), pied currawong (\"Strepera graculina\"), and crimson rosella (\"Platycercus elegans\"), though they generally chase other nectar-feeding birds away from a horde of eucalypt flowers.\nA field study, conducted in winter 1978 on Kangaroo Island, found red wattlebirds to be territorial around a rich source of nectar, namely a large cup gum (\"Eucalyptus cosmophylla\"), driving off smaller honeyeaters. This indicated that the species would exclude other species, if food was scarce. In New England National Park, red wattlebirds would be more aggressive when there were moderate amounts of nectar in groves of flowering banksias, but were less so at lean or abundant times.\nThe red wattlebird has a brush-tipped tongue, with a long segment bearing around 120 individual bristles. It feeds by placing the bill in a flower and inserting the tongue into its nectar chamber, drawing the nectar up by capillary action. The bristles increase the surface area of the tongue available for the uptake of nectar.\nPredators and parasites.\nThe nests of red wattlebirds are often parasitized by the pallid cuckoo (\"Cacomantis pallidus\"), and less commonly by the Pacific koel (\"Eudynamys orientalis\"). Nest predators include the brown goshawk (\"Accipiter fasciatus\"), black falcon (\"Falco subniger\"), pied currawong (\"Strepera graculina\"), Australian raven (\"Corvus coronoides\"), common brushtail possum (\"Trichosurus vulpecula\"), domestic cat, and snakes.\n\"Isospora anthochaerae\" is an Apicomplexan parasite that has been isolated from the red wattlebird in Western Australia, from oocytes collected from faecal samples. Species of bird louse that have been recorded on the red wattlebird include \"Menacanthus\" eurysternus, and members of the genera \"Brueelia\", \"Myrsidea\" and \"Philopterus\".\nInteractions with people.\nRed wattlebirds are adversely impacted by land and undergrowth clearing, and have vanished from some habitats thus altered. Despite this, they are classified as Least Concern on the IUCN Red List, as they occur over a wide range, have a large population, and the population decline is not rapid. Red wattlebirds are regularly killed by cats and dogs, as well as being hit by cars on roads. In 1924 in northern Victoria, the red wattlebird was described as very wary, on account of being highly regarded (and shot) for its meat. Indeed, it was shot widely for food or sport, or because it was held to be a pest of vineyards or orchards. On occasion, red wattlebirds have raided vineyards and orchards for grapes, stone fruit, figs, olives, loquats, apples, pears, and berries, which they puncture and extract the juice or flesh from.\nThe red wattlebird has been kept as an aviary bird in Sydney. It is not difficult to look after, but can be very aggressive to other cage birds. \"Grevillea\" 'Robyn Gordon' is a useful companion shrub as it bears flowers all year round."}
{"id": "731654", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731654", "title": "Metalloids", "text": ""}
{"id": "731655", "revid": "1301516854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731655", "title": "Metamorphic rocks", "text": ""}
{"id": "731656", "revid": "790759496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731656", "title": "Metamorphose", "text": ""}
{"id": "731657", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731657", "title": "E depois do adeus", "text": "\"E depois do adeus\" () is a song recorded by Portuguese singer Paulo de Carvalho, with music composed by Jos\u00e9 Calv\u00e1rio and lyrics by Jos\u00e9 Niza. It in the Eurovision Song Contest 1974, held in Brighton, having previously won 's Grande Pr\u00e9mio TV da Can\u00e7\u00e3o Portuguesa.\nThe song's airing on 24 April 1974 at 10:55\u00a0p.m. on Emissores Associados de Lisboa Radio Station was one of the two secret signals which alerted the rebel captains and soldiers to begin the Carnation Revolution.\nBackground.\nConception.\n\"E depois do adeus\" was composed by Jos\u00e9 Calv\u00e1rio with lyrics by Jos\u00e9 Niza, and recorded by Paulo de Carvalho. The song is a ballad, with him taking the role of a man who is faced with the end of a relationship. He tells his lover how he feels, likening her to \"a flower that I picked\", implying that the relationship was of a comparatively short duration. He also comments on the nature of love itself, singing that it is \"winning and losing\".\nDe Carvalho also recorded an English-language version of the song titled \"(And then) After love\".\nEurovision.\nOn 7 March 1974, \"E depois do adeus\" performed by de Carvalho competed in the of the Grande Pr\u00e9mio TV da Can\u00e7\u00e3o Portuguesa. It received 245 points, winning the competition. As the festival was used by Radiotelevis\u00e3o Portuguesa (RTP) to select their song and performer for the of the Eurovision Song Contest, the song became the , and de Carvalho the performer, for Eurovision.\nOn 6 April 1974, the Eurovision Song Contest was held at The Dome in Brighton hosted by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), and broadcast live throughout the continent. De Carvalho performed \"E depois do adeus\" sixteenth on the night, following 's \"Mein Ruf nach dir\" by Piera Martell and preceding 's \"S\u00ec\" by Gigliola Cinquetti. Jos\u00e9 Calv\u00e1rio conducted the live orchestra in the performance of the Portuguese entry.\nAt the close of voting, it had received 3 points, placing fourteenth \u2013tying for last with Switzerland, , and \u2013 in a field of 17. It was succeeded as Portuguese entry at the by \"Madrugada\" by Duarte Mendes.\nCarnation revolution.\nDespite the modest placing in Eurovision, the song achieved considerable fame as one of the two signals to launch the Carnation Revolution in Portugal against the Estado Novo regime under Am\u00e9rico Tom\u00e1s and Marcello Caetano \u2013 the other being the folk song \"Gr\u00e2ndola, Vila Morena\" by Zeca Afonso, which was the signal for the coup leaders to announce that they had taken control of strategic parts of the country. \"E depois do adeus\" was broadcast at 22.55 on 24 April 1974 by Emissores Associados de Lisboa.\nHistories of the contest tend to take a facetious view of this fact. In his \"The Eurovision Song Contest: The Official History\", author John Kennedy O'Connor, for example, describes it as \"the only Eurovision entry to have actually started a revolution\", while Des Mangan suggests that other Portuguese entries (he mentions 's \"Se eu te pudesse abra\u00e7ar\") would not be likely to inspire coups."}
{"id": "731658", "revid": "937895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731658", "title": "Metric (unit)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731659", "revid": "357262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731659", "title": "Charge of Aradia", "text": ""}
{"id": "731660", "revid": "13575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731660", "title": "Molekh", "text": ""}
{"id": "731661", "revid": "55767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731661", "title": "Mr. Brett", "text": ""}
{"id": "731662", "revid": "13575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731662", "title": "Tyrian Heracles", "text": ""}
{"id": "731664", "revid": "13575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731664", "title": "Tyrian Hercules", "text": ""}
{"id": "731665", "revid": "194762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731665", "title": "Dada movement", "text": ""}
{"id": "731666", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731666", "title": "Khamon", "text": ""}
{"id": "731667", "revid": "7852030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731667", "title": "Milestones", "text": ""}
{"id": "731668", "revid": "47776394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731668", "title": "Nooksack River", "text": "The Nooksack River is a river in western Whatcom County of the northwestern U.S. state of Washington, draining extensive valley systems within the North Cascades around Mount Shuksan, Mount Baker and the Twin Sisters, and a portion of Fraser Lowland south of the Canada\u2013United States border.\nThe river \"proper\" begins with the merging of three main tributaries, namely the North Fork, Middle Fork and South Fork, near Deming. All three forks originate in the Mount Baker Wilderness, and the North Fork, the longest of the three, is sometimes considered the main river. The Nooksack is approximately in total length measuring from the North Fork headwaters. The lower Nooksack flows as a northerly loop through the fertile southern Fraser Lowland agricultural area before emptying into Bellingham Bay and, via the Strait of Juan de Fuca and the Strait of Georgia, communicating with the Pacific Ocean.\nCourse.\nNorth Fork.\nThe North Fork Nooksack River rises at the Nooksack Cirque east of Mount Shuksan within the western part of North Cascades National Park in central Whatcom County. Gathering meltwater off East Nooksack Glacier, it flows generally west past north of Mount Baker. For most of its course, this fork is paralleled by State Route 542 (also called the Mount Baker Highway). The river picks up large creeks such as Price Creek, a short creek draining Price Lake; as well as Ruth Creek, before the uppermost highway bridge crosses it.\nAt Nooksack Falls, the river flows through a narrow valley and drops freely into a deep rocky river canyon. The falls are viewable from the forested cover near the cliff edge. A small parking lot nearby contains a kiosk with information about the falls and a hydroelectric project.\nContinuing west, the North Fork receives several tributaries including Wells Creek, which joins the river at the base of the falls, and Glacier Creek and Canyon Creek, before the river turns briefly south. The Middle Fork and South Fork join the North Fork within a few miles of one another. The Middle Fork joins first, with its confluence opposite Welcome. The South Fork joins just southeast of Deming and the Nooksack Indian Reservation, creating the Nooksack River \"proper\".\nThe traditional name of the North Fork in the Nooksack language is \"Chuw7\u00e1lich\" (\"the next point\").\nMiddle Fork.\nThe Middle Fork Nooksack River, about long, originates on the southern slopes of Mount Baker near Baker Pass. It flows generally northwest between Mount Baker and Twin Sisters, and drains into the North Fork opposite Welcome, about northeast of the confluence between the North and South Forks.\nThe traditional name of the Middle Fork in the Nooksack language is \"Nuxwt\u2019\u00edqw\u2019em\" (\"always-murky water\").\nSouth Fork.\nThe South Fork Nooksack River, about long, rises in southern Whatcom County, east of Twin Sisters Mountain near Bell Pass and Lake Wiseman. It flows briefly south, entering Skagit County, then northwest to re-enter Whatcom County. It flows past the town of Acme, and due north until merging with the North Fork near the State Route 9 bridge, southeast of Deming and the Nooksack Indian Reservation.\nThe traditional name of the South Fork in the Nooksack language is \"Nuxw7\u00edyem\" (\"always-clear water\").\nNooksack \"proper\".\nAfter the Middle and South Forks join, the combined river flows northwest, emerging from the valley south of the Sumas Mountain and flowing past Everson and Lynden. Near Everson, the river is at risk of floods breaching the right bank, allowing flow into lower lands to the north, through Sumas River and into Canada. At Lynden the river turns southwest and, near Ferndale, south. Its mouth is at the north side of Bellingham Bay at the Lummi Indian Reservation, approximately west of Bellingham.\nRiver modifications.\nThe river supplies the nearby town of Glacier, Washington with hydroelectric power from a dam on the North Fork near Nooksack Falls. The Middle Fork was partially blocked with a diversion dam built by the City of Bellingham in the late 1950s for diverting water into Lake Whatcom, which supplies the city's drinking water. As of July 2020, this old water diversion system has been modified to remove the dam and restore the river channel for the benefit of critical salmon spawning habitat.\nIn the late 19th century, most of the stream flow of the Nooksack River near its mouth flowed through the present channel of the short Lummi River to Lummi Bay, northwest of Bellingham Bay. Near the start of the 20th century, a log jam plugged the channel to Lummi Bay, forcing the river to change its channel to the present one. The accumulation of the new river delta has been an ongoing field of research regarding the new wetlands it has created. The river only resupplies the previous delta on Lummi Bay during high-flow conditions.\nFloods.\nThe river is subject to flooding due to high rainfall amounts in the region and some of the deepest snow packs in the country. The Pineapple Express, a weather pattern that brings central Pacific wind and rain to the northwest, can sometimes catalyze flooding. For example, flooding in Everson occurred 14 times from to 1936 to 2003.\nSpecific examples of floods are:\nBoth the U.S. and Canada have faced long-term political hurdles to adequate flood prevention. \"On the Washington side, there has been a reluctance to spend money to benefit Canada\", and on the Canadian side, \"B.C. has been reluctant to use the International Joint Commission following a 1988 report that resulted in the cancellation of the Sage Creek coal mine on the Flathead River\"."}
{"id": "731669", "revid": "29463730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731669", "title": "Luis Mu\u00f1oz Rivera Park", "text": "The Luis Mu\u00f1oz Rivera Park (or Parque Luis Mu\u00f1oz Rivera in Spanish) is a 27.2 acre (110,000 m2) recreational public space located in Puerta de Tierra in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The park was named in honor of Puerto Rican statesman Luis Mu\u00f1oz Rivera. It is the largest public square in the San Juan metropolitan area.\nHistory.\nIn 1917 Law 43 was passed stating a park named Mu\u00f1oz Rivera Park should be built in San Juan and land was set aside for its creation. The land once formed part of the city's \"Third line of defense\" built in the 18th century. The powder magazine built in 1769, \u201cEl Polvor\u00edn de San Ger\u00f3nimo\u201d, designed by military engineer Thomas O'Daly, is still located on the grounds of the park.\nThe east side of the park is bordered by the Puerto Rican Supreme Court building designed in 1952-56 by architects Toro Ferrer. To the north lies the public beach called El Escambr\u00f3n Beach, the Parque del Tercer Milenio and the Estadio Sixto Escobar, former home of the San Juan Senators and Santurce Crabbers baseball clubs.\nThe park was designed by Bennett, Parsons &amp; Frost of Chicago in 1925. Its construction from 1926 to 1934 was directed by William Parsons and Francisco Valines Cofres\u00ed. The distinctive \"faux bois\" park elements and furniture were designed by sculptor Victor M. Cott in the 1930s. Subsequent major restorations have been directed by architects Orval Sifontes in the 1970s, Otto Reyes Casanova in 1990\u201393, and by Andres Mignucci, in 2000\u201304, who also wrote about the park's history in his book .\nIn 2015, then mayor of San Juan Carmen Yul\u00edn Cruz announced the park would be used for educational purposes. In late December 2018, the park was the venue for a large fashion show raising awareness for the HIV pandemic."}
{"id": "731670", "revid": "51150115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731670", "title": "Mazda Luce", "text": "The is an executive car that was produced by Mazda in Japan from 1966 until 1991. It was widely exported as the Mazda 929 from 1973 to 1991 as Mazda's largest sedan. Later generations were installed with luxury items and interiors as the Luce became the flagship offering. The Luce was replaced by the Sentia in 1991 which was also exported under the 929 nameplate. \nEtymology.\nThe name \"lu'ce\" was taken from the Italian word for \"light\".\nSU/SV series (1966\u20131973).\nFollowing an agreement signed with Bertone in April 1962, the 1965 Luce 1500 show car was designed by Giorgetto Giugiaro of Italy. It was low and sharp, looking more like a contemporary BMW Bavaria than its smaller Mazda companion models, the Familia and the \"kei car\" Carol.\nThe production version (SUA), started production in July 1966 and launched in August, had a higher roofline but retained the BMW-esque look. It was a front-engine, rear-wheel-drive four-door sedan, and featured a square 1490\u00a0cc \"1500\" SOHC engine, producing at 5500\u00a0rpm and . It sold poorly at . The \"1500\u00a0SS\" version with twin carburettors was introduced in June 1967, producing at 5500\u00a0rpm and at 5500\u00a0rpm. A stroked 1.8-liter (1796\u00a0cc) \"1800\" engine was added in December 1968. This new model, the Luce 1800, produced at 5500\u00a0rpm and at 2500\u00a0rpm. To accommodate the taller 1800 engine the bonnet on this model has a slight bump in the middle with an air inlet on the leading edge.\nAn \"estate\" (station wagon) was also added in April 1967, with the same engine as the sedan (SUAV). Unlike most commercial vehicles at the time, it was also available with a three-speed automatic transmission.\n1500/1800.\nThe Luce Mark I was sold in Australia and most other export markets under the names \"Mazda 1500\" and \"Mazda 1800\". Mazda considered assembling the Luce in South Africa and brought in 50 examples for evaluation and company use in 1967, but they instead chose to focus on the 1200 (Familia) and compact pickup trucks.\nThe Mazda brand entered the United States market in 1970 with just the small R100, but expanded to a full line in 1971. This included all three of the company's piston-powered models, the compact 1200, mid-size 616, and full-size 1800.\nThe US-market 1800 produced and and cost . Performance with the three-speed automatic transmission was sluggish, with a time of 17.5\u00a0seconds and a 20.5\u00a0seconds and quarter-mile. Unlike the rotary cars, the 1800 was a flop. \"Road &amp; Track\" magazine said it was solid to the point of being overly heavy, with pleasant handling but poor performance. It was gone from the market for 1972.\nOpposite to what happened in the US, in Europe the 1800 was considered as having a better performance with at 5500\u00a0rpm (SAE) and maximum torque of at 3000\u00a0rpm (SAE), for a time of 13.4\u00a0seconds. The poor performance of this engine in USA was probably due to fact that in USA, the gasoline had an octane index of only 85 RON, while in Europe, the gasoline at the time had an octane index of 95 RON (up to 100 RON today). Also the manual transmission with four gears used in Europe contributed to a much better performance than the three-speed automatic transmission usually used in the US. The 1800 (fitted with a manual transmission) also sold in small numbers in Australia.\nThe number of Mazda 1800 automobiles imported into the US are as follows.\nThe 1800 four-door sedan (model SVA) was produced from October 1968 through March 1973 where a reported 39,401 units were made. An 1800 station wagon version (model SVAV) was added in 1968, lasting until 1970.\nR130.\nA rotary-powered Luce appeared in 1969. The Luce R130 was produced from October 1969 to 1972. It used a 1.3-liter 13A engine, which produced and . Quarter-mile (400\u00a0meters) performance was 16.9\u00a0seconds. This model was styled by Giorgetto Giugiaro, then working for Bertone, as a front-wheel-drive two-door coup\u00e9 with front disc brakes, which was similar to the NSU Ro 80. This model, Mazda's only front-wheel-drive rotary (until the MX-30 R-EV), is now a collector's item and very rare. Less than 1,000 were built.\nLA2/LA3 series (1972\u20131977).\nMazda released a second generation LA2 series Luce in November 1972\u2014a rotary powered model that would be later exported as the Mazda RX-4. The conventionally-engined Luce sedan (LA2VS) would not arrive to the Japanese market until April 1973, after starting production in March. It was available as a hardtop (coup\u00e9), \"formal sedan\", \"custom sedan\", and as a station wagon which was also sold as a van in the domestic Japanese market. The original hardtop coup\u00e9 received a longer, more aggressive front design, which was also installed on the custom sedan. The formal sedan and the van/wagon received a somewhat shorter front end which was also used on the export versions (929). For the facelifted LA3 model from 1976, only one front design was used\u2014one with a more square design.\nWhile the Luce was a large, luxuriously equipped sedan, it still complied to Japanese Government dimension regulations, and it wasn't the largest sedan Mazda sold in Japan. That honor went to the short-lived Mazda Roadpacer, which was based on GM Australia's Holden Premier.\nThe LA2VV station wagon entered production in September 1973. The wagon lasted until 1979, until being replaced by the LA4 wagon.\nTwo rotary engines were offered, the regular 12A and low-emission \"AP\" 13B. There were also piston models available, and van models for the Japanese market.\nEngines:\nRX-4.\nIn most export markets, the Japanese Luce Rotary sold as the Mazda RX-4. It was a larger car than its rotary-powered contemporaries, the Capella-based RX-2 and Grand Familia-based RX-3. It used the Luce chassis, replacing the R130 in October 1972, and was produced through October 1977. Its predecessor (the R130) and replacement (the rotary Luce Legato) were not sold in the United States. Mazda marketed the RX-4 as being sporty and luxurious \"personal luxury car\" with the RX-4 having the best of both worlds. This gave Mazda a well needed boost in the popularity of the Wankel engine unique to Mazda. In Japan, the rotary-engined variants offered an advantage with regards to the annual road tax bill in that Japanese drivers paid less than the in-line engine equivalents, while receiving more performance from the rotary engine.\nThe RX-4 was initially available as a hardtop coup\u00e9 and sedan, with a station wagon launched in 1973 to replace the Savanna Wagon. Under the hood at first was a \"12A\" engine, with the higher-powered version reserved for the five-speed GR-II and GS-II models. The extra power was due to a different exhaust and adjusted ignition timing. The emissions scrubbed \"AP\" models had five horsepower less, although after June 1973 they received the same power as the regular versions. This was complemented and then replaced by the larger \"13B\" in December 1973 producing . This model has , for export. This engine was Mazda's new \"AP\" (for \"anti-pollution\") version, with much-improved emissions and fuel economy, but somewhat worse cold-starting behavior. In South Africa it was produced until 1979, all years only with the AP engine.\nThe car used a strut-type independent suspension in front with a live axle in the rear. Brakes were discs in front and drums in the rear. Curb weight was low at and the wheelbase fairly short at . The body was freshened in 1976.\nFor the United States market, the RX-4 was sold from 1974 through 1978, when the RX-7 debuted. The 13B produced and in United States emissions form. Base pricing was $4295, with the automatic transmission ($270) and air conditioning ($395) the only expensive options. All three bodystyles were on offer in the United States.\n\"Road &amp; Track\" magazine was impressed, noting the car's improved fuel economy and price compared to the RX-3. This was notable, as the Wankel engine had suffered by the mid 1970s with a reputation as a gas-guzzler. Performance was good in a 1974 comparison test of six wagons, with an 11.7\u00a0s sprint to and an 18\u00a0s/77.5\u00a0mph quarter-mile. The magazine noted that the wagon's brakes suffered from the extra weight compared to the coup\u00e9.\nThe RX-4 was on \"Road &amp; Track\" magazine's Ten Best list for \"Best Sports Sedan, $3500\u20136500\" in 1975.\n929.\nThe first Mazda 929 was introduced in 1973, as an export name for the piston-engined second generation Mazda Luce. The first generation Luce had been called the \"Mazda 1500\" or \"Mazda 1800\" in export markets, but as engines of different displacement were beginning to be used across lines, such a naming philosophy would have soon become confusing. The 929/Luce was a large (for Japan) coup\u00e9, sedan, and station wagon powered by a 1769\u00a0cc Mazda VB engine. Output was and .\nThe Luce/929 was updated in 1975 with an optional 1970\u00a0cc engine which produced and from a two-barrel carburetor.\nEngines:\nLA4 series (1977\u20131981).\nThe Luce Legato (introduced as the \"LA4\" series in October 1977) was a large and luxurious sedan, still powered by Mazda's piston or rotary engines. It was also available as a four-door pillarless hardtop that looked like a huge, square coup\u00e9, and a wagon, which had more of a utilitarian role than the sedans. The coup\u00e9 was replaced by the Mazda Cosmo (CD). Production of the Luce 1800 (LA4VS) and 2000 (LA4MS) sedans started in October 1977, ending in July (LA4VS) and September 1981 (LA4MS) for the Japanese market. Of the rotary-engined Luce sedans, the LA42S with the \"12A\" engine was manufactured between September 1977 and April 1978, while the larger LA43S with the \"13B\" introduced at the same time lasted until October 1981.\nThis generation sedan was not sold in North America. It was originally designated as the Luce Legato, but the Japanese automobile industry authorities would not allow for what they considered a name change and so it was officially sold as simply the Luce. The \"L\" for \"Legato\" suffix hung on though, with export models receiving the new car as the \"929L\". Legato is a musical term meaning \"to make a smooth transition from one note to another\"\nThe rebodied Mazda Luce Legato became the second generation 929 in 1978 for export markets, often called the 929L. There was no coup\u00e9 version developed of this generation, although a four-door hardtop body was available in Japan and some other markets including France. A station wagon was added in February 1979. The design was American-inspired, with stacked rectangular headlights and a large chrome grille. The rather heavy and old-fashioned exterior was made to look even older by having a very up-to-date interior and dashboard. In Europe, a more efficient 2.0-liter inline-four, producing with a single-barrel carb replaced the existing engines.\nFirst presented in Japan in October 1979 was a facelifted LA4 version with large, rectangular headlights and a more orthodox and European front appearance. The final addition was a 2.2-liter diesel engine produced between August 1980 and July 1981 for the sedan (LA4SS) from November 1981 for the wagon (LA4SV). Its output was and . In October 1980, a fuel injected version of the 2-liter engine was also introduced for the Japanese market; it was only available with the hardtop bodywork and full equipment. The 929 was replaced after November 1981 by the next generation Luce/929, although the second generation station wagon continued in production until March 1988 as no wagon replacement of subsequent generations was ever developed. At the time of the generational change, the diesel engine was also installed in the van (wagon) model, only available with the GL equipment level.\nAside from the regular piston-engined variants, the 12A or 13B rotary engines were on offer. The piston-engined variants were exported as the Mazda 929. A rotary-engined version was exported to \"general issue\" countries and sold as an RX-9. Most RX-9s were sold with the smaller 12A engine.\nEngines:\nHB series (1981\u20131986).\nThe next generation of Luce was built on the HB platform. Production started in October 1981. Exports again occurred as the 929. Japanese customers could purchase the Luce or the rebadged Mazda Cosmo sold at an exclusive dealership called \"Mazda Auto Store\". Later in 1991, Mazda Auto locations were renamed Eunos. Unlike the Luce, the Cosmo was also sold as a coup\u00e9, also exported as the 929 coup\u00e9. The Luce and Cosmo both offered rotary, gasoline-powered piston-engines, and also a 2.2-liter diesel engine. From 1989, an LPG-powered 2.0-liter version of the Luce sedan was also built for the Japanese market for taxi and other fleet usage. Called the , it remained in production until December 1995. This generation Mazda Luce was known as the Haima HMC6470L in China and was produced from 1992 to 2002. A 2.0 or 2.2 liter engine was available paired to a 5 speed manual gearbox.\nIt was a large front-engine rear-wheel drive sedan or hardtop sedan. The Luce was built on the new HB platform, which was now shared with the Cosmo. This version was introduced as the 929 in 1982 in most export markets and produced until 1986. Luces and Cosmos received several differing front end treatments, with export 929s receiving the very staidest front end designs for 929 sedans and the sportiest flip-up headlight \"Cosmo\" design for 929 coup\u00e9s. No station wagon variant was issued on the HB platform; the previous LA4 remained in production as a wagon with a new front end (it was essentially the same as the LA4 from the A-pillar backwards).\nThis generation vehicle was not sold in North America. In some European markets the 929 was badged 2000 sedan or 2000E estate (applied to a facelifted version of the previous generation). The rotary-engined versions were never offered in Europe, and neither was the four-door hardtop \u2013 although parts of Europe bordering on Eastern Europe and the Middle East did receive it.\nEngines:\nHC series (1986\u20131991).\nThe 1986 Luce was large and luxurious on the HC platform, now with the 13B turbo engine as one of many engine options. It was still exported as the 929, and differed from the (continued) Cosmo. At its introduction in 1986, it was offered with Mazda's first V6 engine, called the Mazda J engine which came as a 2.0-liter, a 2.0-liter turbo, and a 3.0-liter for top level model\nThe Luce Royal Classic (and lesser-spec Limited) was more expensive than its 929 counterpart, featuring greater technical innovation. Both were pillarless hardtops. The Royal Classic was factory fitted with a turbocharged 13B Rotary or 2.0-liter V6 engines, electric leather seats, digital speedometer, a cool-box for canned beverages, prominent emblems, electronically adjustable suspension and power options throughout. In order to satisfy Japanese regulations concerning exterior dimensions and engine displacement, this generation vehicle was built in two versions; the 3.0-liter V6 was installed in the longer and wider hardtop bodystyle, and the smaller engines, including the rotary engine, were installed in the shorter and narrower sedan bodystyle. Japanese owners who chose the rotary engine over trim packages with the larger V6 engine received financial benefits in the form of a lower annual road tax bill. It was the larger model that carried over to the next platform that introduced the Mazda Sentia.\n1991 was the last year of the Luce nameplate. The Eunos Cosmo was already on sale (JC), and the HD platform spawned the Mazda Sentia (now exported as the 929), and the Efini MS-9, making 1991 the last year for a four-door rotary powered sedan prior to the RX-8. In the 1990s, Mazda sold the body stampings to Kia Motors, who produced the HC series as Kia Potentia between 1992 and 2001, selling it only in South Korea.\nThe export market 929 was also updated in 1986 (1987 in some markets) with the HC platform and a 3.0-liter V6 engine. The car was produced through 1991, again lagging behind its Japan-market twin, the Mazda Luce, by one year. The 929 began US and Canadian sales in 1987; although predominantly available as a 3.0-liter V6, there were a rare few that made it to the North American market as a four-cylinder 2.2-liter F2 in a RWD configuration. This generation vehicle was sold in North America in sedan bodystyle only beginning with the 1988 model year; the hardtop was not available, nor were the rotary engines. Actor James Garner was used as a spokesman introducing the 929 to North America.\nThe HC platform came out in two variations during its five-year span that had identical engines and interior but with two distinct body shapes; a pillared four-door sedan or a slightly larger pillarless four-door hardtop. While the pillared model was common in all countries that allowed the importation of the 929 (including the US and Canada), the pillarless model was predominantly seen in the Asian and Australian markets.\nThe Canadian 929 came with a \"Winter Package\" option and included heated seats, a higher grade alternator, winter tires and non-recessed windshield wipers. A five-speed manual gearbox was an option, but most North American 929s were two-mode ('power' and 'economy') electronic four-speed automatics. Top speed was . A 0\u2013 time of 9.2 seconds was recorded using the manual gearbox; the automatics were somewhat slower at 10 seconds.\nThe first 3.0-liter V6 engine seen in the 1986\u20131989 929 was a Single Overhead Cam type with 18 valves. When Mazda released the higher-spec 929S model for the 1990\u20131991 period, the engine was upgraded to a Double Overhead Cam type with 24 valves, slightly increasing fuel economy, performance and reliability. Also in the revised edition came the presence of an anti-lock braking system, ventilated rear disc brakes and a few inconspicuous changes to the exterior. The standard 18-valve SOHC remained in the base model 929.\nAfter mainstream production ended in May 1991, the HC remained in production until January 1996 for taxi applications in Japan.\nEngines:\nKia Potentia.\nWhen the HC series Luce was replaced with the Mazda Sentia, it continued to be manufactured in South Korea at Kia Hwasung plant as the Kia Potentia. The Potentia was produced from 1992 until 2002 using the 2.0-liter four-cylinder Mazda FE-DOHC engine\u2014 which was the same as used in the first generation Kia Sportage's gasoline version \u2014 a 2.2-liter four-cylinder, and a 3.0-liter V6. The V6 model was called the President trim level.\nIn May 1997 the Potentia was given a thorough facelift, with a bulkier, more aggressive front design and heavier looking taillights. Sold as the \"New Potentia,\" this facelift was developed by Kia themselves and was not used by Mazda. The upper versions of the Potentia were replaced by the more expensive Kia Enterprise, which was based on the Mazda Sentia and was introduced in 1997 after the Sentia was cancelled. The New Potentia was realigned in the marketplace and was now offered with a narrower range of engines and transmissions. The manual transmission, always a slow seller in South Korea, was discontinued and the engines were limited to a 2.0-liter four and a 2.5-liter V6. There was also an LPG-powered 2-liter four available. The New Potentia was unable to compete with the more modern Hyundai Grandeur and the Samsung SM5 and was partially replaced by the somewhat smaller Kia Optima beginning in 2000; the Potentia remained in production until May 2002. "}
{"id": "731671", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731671", "title": "Monitors", "text": ""}
{"id": "731676", "revid": "13051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731676", "title": "Object file formats", "text": ""}
{"id": "731677", "revid": "3483288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731677", "title": "German politics", "text": ""}
{"id": "731678", "revid": "24323093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731678", "title": "Jan Theiler", "text": "Jan Theiler alias Pastor Leumund (born 1967) is a German artist, musician and political activist.\nIn the 1990s, he was an influential curator, performance artist and musician on the underground scene organising large-scale music and performance events at various venues in East-Berlin including the Duncker14, K77, Prater, Kule, Kunsthaus Tacheles and many more.\nIn 1997, he took part in the Labyrinth festival, in the Torpedo Hallen, Copenhagen. In 1999, he exhibited at the Rich and Famous gallery, London.\nHe was one of a number of artists including Mark Divo, the Mikry Drei, Lennie Lee and Dan Jones to have squatted the Cabaret Voltaire (Z\u00fcrich) in the February 2002, in an attempt to revive the Dada movement.\nHe became well known in Z\u00fcrich as a spokesman for the neo-dadaists. He curated the second (Sihlpapier 2003), third (Toilethouses 2004) and fourth (Pornokino 2005) Dada festival together with Mark Divo in Z\u00fcrich.\nIn 2005, he was included in the Real Biennale at the Kinsk\u00fd Palace, Prague. In 2005, he also attempted to set up a political party known as the Berg Party during the struggle for the Palast der Republik. In 2011, the Party merged with the squatters party, becoming Bergpartei, die \u00dcberPartei. Jan Theiler remaines chairman of the party."}
{"id": "731679", "revid": "38984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731679", "title": "Phenylketonurias", "text": ""}
{"id": "731680", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731680", "title": "Possessive pronouns", "text": ""}
{"id": "731681", "revid": "40192293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731681", "title": "Power plants", "text": ""}
{"id": "731682", "revid": "1291063544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731682", "title": "Breeding", "text": "Breeding is sexual reproduction that produces offspring, usually animals or plants. It can only occur between a male and a female animal or plant.\nBreeding may refer to:"}
{"id": "731683", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731683", "title": "Primary sources", "text": ""}
{"id": "731685", "revid": "701676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731685", "title": "Sacred texts", "text": ""}
{"id": "731687", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731687", "title": "Sauces", "text": ""}
{"id": "731689", "revid": "44062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731689", "title": "Sausages", "text": ""}
{"id": "731690", "revid": "7436027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731690", "title": "Buckles (comics)", "text": "Buckles is a comic strip by David Gilbert about the misadventures of an anthropomorphic na\u00efve dog. \"Buckles\" debuted on March 25, 1996, and ended on March 21, 2021.\nAccording to King Features Syndicate: \"More of an only child with canine instincts than he is the family pet. Buckles can display all the charm...of a small child discovering how to find his way through life.\"\nGoComics began a repeat run of the strip effective May 10, 2021.\nCharacters.\nBuckles.\nBuckles is a guileless and innocent dog, and is the strip's protagonist. He was born on March 25, 1996 (The same day the first strip was published). Most of the storylines of the Buckles comic series involve moral issues within Buckles himself. Of course since he is a puppy, issues are more to the point of whether or not to get in the garbage, roll in the mud, or chew up a valuable piece of clothing. Buckles also fears cats. One of Buckles' favorite things to chew up seems to be the remote control to the TV, often ending in a strict lecture from Paul (his owner). The other is to attack and kill Paul's vacuum cleaners. And of course most of his misadventures end either with praise and a treat or a quick \"No! Bad Dog!\"/\"Buckles, You Bad Dog!\"\nPaul and Jill Haggerson.\nBuckles' owners who are strict and kind. Paul and Jill love Buckles. When he does something bad, they often scold him and put him in the garage.\nPaul, or Jill, often says/yells \"BUCKLES, YOU BAD DOG!!!!\" (which is their catchphrase) when annoyed with Buckles.\nIn May 2006, it was revealed Paul previously had a dog named Shadow before he and Jill got married.\nChristina.\nJill's niece who puts dresses on Buckles and makes him attend her tea parties.\nFlea.\nAn unseen but heard presence who lives behind Buckles' right ear.\nArden.\nA bird whom Buckles often asks for advice. He likes worms, because they're for lunch.\nArden occasionally breaks the fourth wall, especially on June 3, 2007.\nLester.\nA dog who, because of hip dysplasia, has a sort of wheelchair apparatus providing mobility instead of his hind legs.\nRusty.\nA streetwise stray whose freedom Buckles envies.\nScrappy.\nAn annoying squirrel who lives in the backyard. He hates Buckles and Arden, frequently insulting them and calling them rude names like \"slobber face\" (Buckles) and \"beak brain\" (Arden).\nThere are several stories involving Scrappy in the series. One example is him getting in a fight with a black squirrel. Another occasional story is where Scrappy breaks into Paul and Jill's attic and realizes he is lost.\nIrene.\nThe love interest of Buckles' life that is a fire hydrant.\nPaperboy.\nA younger newspaper deliverer who often throws rolled-up newspapers at Buckles.\nRecurring jokes.\nThere is meta-humor in this strip; for example, the characters talk with their mouths closed. Their dialogue has many exclamation points when they talk quietly or nicely like the dialogue in \"Peanuts\". Also, in some strips, there are repeated drawings and lines (i.e. in the May 21, 2008 strip, Buckles steps back from a harmless garter snake, horrified. He then hides behind Paul, who rolls his eyes and says, \"For crying out loud, Buckles! It's just a harmless garter snake!\" After that, like Buckles, Paul steps back from the harmless garter snake, horrified. Then he hides behind Jill, who is gardening but rolls her eyes, saying, \"For crying out loud, Paul!...\" like Paul did with Buckles).\nBooks.\nThere are three different comic collections published by Plan 9 Publishing:\nCurrently, the books are out of stock. David Gilbert left the publisher and will seek into another printing option for the current and future collections."}
{"id": "731692", "revid": "38984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731692", "title": "Scientific romances", "text": ""}
{"id": "731693", "revid": "41849648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731693", "title": "Semi-presidential systems", "text": ""}
{"id": "731694", "revid": "51922438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731694", "title": "Oscar Gonz\u00e1les (writer)", "text": "Oscar Gonz\u00e1les is an author and poet born in Puerto Cortes, Honduras. He has published five books in the areas of literature and the social sciences and has received literary awards from Yale University. Lauded by the Mexican poet and intellectual Jos\u00e9 Emilio Pacheco as \"the rise of a fresh and unique young voice,\" Oscar Gonzales studied under Yale's eminent literary critics Harold Bloom, Manuel Dur\u00e1n, and Roberto Gonz\u00e1lez-Echevarr\u00eda. He has a combined B.A. in Latin American studies (history, economics and literature) and B.A./M.A. in Latin American literature from Yale University, and in 1991 he became the first undergraduate to win Yale's Theron Rockwell Field Prize for his anthology of poems \"Donde el plomo flota\" (Where Lead Floats). At Yale, he was a member of Skull and Bones. He currently resides in Washington DC with his wife and three children. Dur\u00e1n classifies Gonzales's work with that of Nobel Prize winner Pablo Neruda \"because of the amplitude of his poetry's horizons, the strength and firmness of its voice, and the 'intimist' and cosmic sensuality of his love poetry. Eroticism and panoramic vision of nature are characteristics that unite the two poets, together with an interest in the themes of liberty and the disdain of oppression, injustice, tyranny.\"\nBiography.\nGonzales grew up on the north coast of Honduras in the city of Puerto Cortes, one of the largest harbors in Central America. His father was a union organizer for the transnational banana dockworkers union and was persecuted politically for his activities. Although his parents only completed basic schooling, they invested in their children's education. Gonzales attended the Saint John's Bilingual School in Puerto Cortes, a grammar school supported by Episcopalian missionaries. At age 14 he was awarded a scholarship to attend the Kent School, a New England Boarding School in Kent, Connecticut. He was accepted to attend Yale University. While attending Yale, Oscar was awarded the Theron Rockwell Field Prize for his 35-page book titled \"Donde El Plomo Flota\" (\"Where Lead Floats\"), and became the first undergraduate in Yale history to receive the award. Written in Spanish, the work satirizes social and political realities of his native Honduras and Latin America in general. The committee of judges for the Theron-Rockwell prize \"was most impressed with the originality of the work and the powerful poetic voice mastered\". His political writings reflect the immense sense of loss and frustration he feels about his country's present economic and political struggles. According to an interview in the Yale Daily News, \"through his writing he hopes to lessen the antipathy toward Honduras and awaken a social consciousness\". At Yale Gonzales studied under Yale's Harold Bloom, Manuel Dur\u00e1n, and Roberto Gonz\u00e1lez-Echevarr\u00eda.\nWorks.\nPoetry.\nIn the words of Yale Professor Emeritus Manuel Duran: \nGonzales' first book of poems, \"Donde el Plomo Flota\", is an extended 35-page poem that intertwines personal stories of the poet's childhood and youth with the tense political situation of the 1980s in Honduras, when the Cold War was in full swing. The first section of the book discusses a world of single mothers struggling to feed children in families without father figures who are absent due to the civil war and the dire economic situation. Some of the characters are described as aunts who contemplate suicide as an escape from an oppressive system. The difficult life of the dockworkers of the banana company and their ambiguous relationship with the transnational company that simultaneously provides a living but also a dangerous workplace is treated in several poems. A section of the book discusses Honduran myths such as La Llorona, a crying female ghost who searches for her lost children, as a metaphor for the plight of single mothers without support. A scathing satirical part of the book presents the corrupt world of politicians who use tax money to buy luxury cars in a country with limited financial resources. The last section deals with the issue of the \"disappeared\", individuals who have been politically assassinated by the military.\nHis second book of poetry, \"Amada en el Amado Transformada\", provides a wide departure from the political satire of \"Plomo\". The poet is now deeply affected by love of his country. Influenced by Saint John of the Cross and his poem \"Dark Night of the Soul\"\u2014to which the title alludes\u2014the book can be interpreted as a mythical and highly symbolic retelling of the \"Song of Songs\" traditionally attributed to Salomon in the Bible. The beloved can be the motherland, the female incarnation of a spouse or poetry itself.\n\"Central America in My Heart\" is Gonzales' third book and the first to be published in the United States in a bilingual edition. Lauded by the Mexican poet and intellectual Jos\u00e9 Emilio Pacheco as \"the rise of a fresh and unique young voice\" in poetry, the book comprises three distinct parts that vary stylistically and thematically. The first part, divided into poems named for various nations and locations, represents love poems, using location as metaphor and symbol. The second part of the book shifts to a stoic accusatory tone that reveals the poet's grief and anger as he is forced to choose a life in exile. The third part explores political themes such as justice and the issue of the disappeared in Latin America.\nInternational development.\nGonzales has also published several books in the area of international development as advocacy to promote the rights of underserved and under-represented rural populations in Latin America. The books discuss the interactions of agricultural and economic growth in lieu of poverty reduction and environmental protection programs. In \"Agricultural Growth, Natural Resource Sustainability and Poverty Alleviation\", Gonzales argues that there are tradeoffs when programs with different objectives are implemented and solutions must incorporate a balance between competing goals. To illustrate these development strategies, three cases of land use intensification are presented: horticultural production in the Guatemalan highlands, coffee production in Honduras, the \"farmer to farmer\" movement in Nicaragua. These case studies are compared to two cases of land use extensification: depopulation in the north and east of El Salvador as a result of the Civil War and the abandonment of pastures in Costa Rica to illustrate the interactions between policies and de facto actions by the local populations.\n\"Agricultural growth, natural resource sustainability, and poverty alleviation in Latin America\" demonstrates that hillside regions account for a large proportion of the rural poor in Latin America. These populations have been displaced from productive farmlands by intensive agricultural development. Thus, projects that simply focus on agricultural development will not necessarily lead to poverty reduction, but may sometimes increase poverty if displaced rural populations are not taken into account. A wide array of policies, technologies and institutional arrangements are presented to provide solutions to the problem of rural poverty in Latin America.\nIn \"Investigaci\u00f3n sobre pol\u00edticas para el desarrollo sostenible en las laderas mesoamericanas\" Gonzales writes that a large share of land in Latin America is characterized by problems of erosion, deforestation, sedimentation and loss of biodiversity. To face these problems, governments, NGOs and international agencies have traditionally recurred to the implementation of soil conservation practices, reforestation and the establishment of protected areas. Meanwhile, notable changes in land use and production practices which do not depend primarily on the implementation of any particular project have gone unnoticed, but have had a favorable and substantial impact over natural resources. If policies had concentrated on establishing the appropriate conditions to stimulate this type of spontaneous change, perhaps policies would have had more success than those which were actually implemented."}
{"id": "731697", "revid": "15708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731697", "title": "Abu Mousab Al-Zarqawi", "text": ""}
{"id": "731699", "revid": "15708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731699", "title": "Abu Mousab al-Zarqawi", "text": ""}
{"id": "731702", "revid": "46072425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731702", "title": "George Elphinstone, 1st Viscount Keith", "text": "Admiral George Keith Elphinstone, 1st Viscount Keith, (7 January 1746 \u2013 10 March 1823) was a Royal Navy officer and politician who served in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars.\nCareer.\nEarly service.\nGeorge Elphinstone was the fourth son of Charles Elphinstone, 10th Lord Elphinstone, and his wife Lady Clementina Fleming, the daughter and heiress of John Fleming, 6th Earl of Wigtown. Elphinstone was born on 7 January 1746 at Elphinstone Tower, Scotland. Of his three elder brothers, two joined the British Army while the third, William Fullerton Elphinstone, initially served in the Royal Navy before joining the East India Company. Elphinstone followed his third brother into the navy, joining the 100-gun ship of the line on 4 November 1761. He stayed in her only briefly, transferring to the 44-gun frigate , commanded by Captain John Jervis, on 1 January of the following year.\nServing in \"Gosport\" on the North American Station, Elphinstone saw action in the campaign that culminated in the removal of the French from Newfoundland at the Battle of Signal Hill in September. At the end of the year \"Gosport\" sailed back to Britain, and in March of the following year Elphinstone left her to join the 32-gun frigate HMS \"Juno\". He stayed in \"Juno\" only briefly, transferring from her to the 20-gun frigate HMS \"Lively\" after two months. As part of the Mediterranean Fleet, Elphinstone served in \"Lively\" until January 1765, at which point he went on leave at home. His leave over, Elphinstone was next appointed to serve on the 32-gun frigate HMS \"Emerald\" in August 1766. In December, however, he obtained permission from his captain to leave \"Emerald\" in order to join his brother William's East India Company ship, \"Tryton\", as third mate on a trip to China. The two brothers' uncle, George Keith, 10th Earl Marischal, lent each \u00a32,000 for the journey, which money allowed them to profit from the expedition. He became lieutenant in 1770, commander in 1772, and post captain in 1775.\nPost-Captain.\nDuring the American Revolutionary War he was employed against the privateers, and with a naval brigade at the occupation of Charleston, South Carolina. In January 1781, when in command of the 50-gun , he captured a Dutch 50-gun ship that had beaten off a British vessel of equal strength a few days before. On 15 September 1782 in the Delaware Bay he led a squadron that captured the French 38 gun frigate \"Aigle\" during which Captain Latouche Tr\u00e9ville was taken prisoner. After peace was signed he remained on shore for ten years, serving in Parliament as member first for Dunbartonshire, and then for Stirlingshire. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society in 1790.\nAdmiral.\nWhen war broke out again in 1793, he was appointed to the 74-gun , in which he took part in the occupation of Toulon by Samuel Hood, 1st Viscount Hood. He particularly distinguished himself by beating a body of the French ashore at the head of a naval brigade of British and Spaniards. He was entrusted with the duty of embarking the fugitives when the town was evacuated. In 1794 he was promoted rear-admiral, and in 1795 he was sent to occupy the Dutch Cape Colony thereby establishing the Cape of Good Hope Station. He had a large share in the capture of the Cape in 1795, and in August 1796 captured a whole Dutch squadron in Saldanha Bay. In the interval he had gone on to India, where his health suffered, and the capture at Saldanha was effected on his way home. When the Nore Mutiny broke out in 1797 he was appointed to the command, and was soon able to restore order. He was equally successful at Plymouth, where the squadron was also in a state of effervescence.\nAt the close of 1798, he was sent as second in command to St Vincent. It was for a long time a thankless post, for St Vincent was at once half incapacitated by ill-health and very arbitrary, while Horatio Nelson, who considered that Keith's appointment was a personal slight to himself, was peevish and insubordinate. In May 1799, he was unable to counter Bruix' expedition, mainly due to sparring among the British naval commanders. Keith followed the enemy to Brest on their retreat, but was unable to bring them to action.\nHe returned to the Mediterranean in November as commander-in-chief. He co-operated with the Austrians in the siege of Genoa, which surrendered on 4 June 1800. It was however immediately afterwards lost in consequence of the Battle of Marengo, and the French made their re-entry so rapidly that the admiral had considerable difficulty in getting his ships out of the harbour. The close of 1801 and the beginning of the following year were spent in transporting the army sent to recover Egypt from the French. As the naval force of the enemy was completely driven into port, the British admiral had no opportunity of an action at sea, but his management of the convoy carrying the troops, and of the landing at Aboukir, was greatly admired.\nHe was made Baron Keith of the United Kingdom, an Irish barony having been conferred on him in 1797. On the renewal of the war in 1803 he was appointed Commander-in-Chief, North Sea (which at the time included Nore Command), which post he held until 1807. In 1805 he unsuccessfully attacked a Franco-Batavian naval force at the Battle of Blanc-Nez and Gris-Nez. In February 1812 he was appointed commander-in-chief in the English Channel, and in 1814 he was raised to a viscountcy. During his last two commands he was engaged first in overseeing the measures taken to meet a threatened invasion, and then in directing the movements of the numerous small squadrons and private ships employed on the coasts of Spain and Portugal, and in protecting trade.\nHe was at Plymouth when Napoleon surrendered and was brought to England in by Captain Maitland (1777\u20131839). The decisions of the government of the United Kingdom were expressed through him to the fallen Emperor. Lord Keith refused to be led into disputes, and confined himself to declaring steadily that he had his orders to obey. He was not much impressed by the appearance of his illustrious charge and thought that the airs of Napoleon and his suite were ridiculous. Lord Keith died in 1823 at Tulliallan Castle, near Kincardine-on-Forth, Fife, his property in Scotland, and was buried in the parish church.\nFamily life.\nHe was twice married: in 1787 to Jane Mercer, daughter of Colonel William Mercer of Aldie, and in 1808 to Hester Maria Thrale, daughter of Henry Thrale and Hester Thrale, who is spoken of as 'Queeney' in Boswell's \"Life of Johnson\" and in Madame d'Arblay's \"Diary\". He had a daughter by each marriage, the second being Georgina Augusta Henrietta, but no son. Thus the viscountcy became extinct on his death, but the British and Irish baronies descended to his elder daughter Margaret (1788\u20131867), who married the Comte de Flahault, only to become extinct on her death.\nA portrait of him by Owen is in the Painted Hall in Greenwich and another by George Sanders in the National Maritime Museum, Greenwich.\nFreemasonry.\nHe was initiated into Scottish Freemasonry in Lodge Holyrood House (St Luke's), No. 44, on 16 June 1769.\nIn fiction.\nLord Keith and his wife 'Queeney' appear in several of the novels in Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey\u2013Maturin series. He is also mentioned in passing in Robert Brightwell's novel \"Flashman and the Seawolf\", based loosely on the exploits of Thomas Cochrane, 10th Earl of Dundonald (as is, in part, the character of Jack Aubrey)."}
{"id": "731704", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731704", "title": "Viscount Keith", "text": ""}
{"id": "731705", "revid": "55876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731705", "title": "John Jervis, 1st Earl St Vincent", "text": ""}
{"id": "731706", "revid": "51953678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731706", "title": "The Moldy Peaches", "text": "The Moldy Peaches are an American indie group founded by Adam Green and Kimya Dawson. Leading proponents of the anti-folk scene, the band had been on hiatus since 2004, but in 2023 announced on Twitter that they would be reuniting. The appearance of their song \"Anyone Else but You\" in the film \"Juno\" significantly raised their profile; Dawson and Green made a handful of reunion appearances together in December 2007.\nHistory.\nGreen and Dawson met at Exile on Main Street Records in Mount Kisco, New York, and began working together. Green put out a 7\" EP called \"X-Ray Vision\" under the name the Moldy Peaches, featuring recordings he made from 1994\u201396 with Dawson and various other friends, notably Jules Sheridan, a songwriter based in Scotland. Green and Dawson recorded a CDR album in 1998 under the name Moldy Peaches 2000 called \"FER THE KIDS\" before Dawson moved to Port Townsend, Washington.\nIn early 1999, Green joined her there, and more home and live recordings transpired. The band returned to New York City as a four piece later in the year, including Jest Commons, guitar, and Justin Campbell, drums. They became active on the New York City anti-folk scene, playing at the SideWalk Cafe before the band broke up. Dawson and Green both recorded solo albums. The band reformed in August 2000 with Chris Barron of the Spin Doctors on lead guitar, Brian Piltin on bass guitar, and Strictly Beats (Brent Cole) on drums. (The \"2000\" was dropped from their name around this time). A new 11 song album was recorded, which led to a deal with Rough Trade in the UK. They gained recognition after their initial 7\" 'Who's Got the Crack\" was named 'Single of the Week' in \"NME\". Rough Trade released the album \"The Moldy Peaches\" in 2001. Released in the U.S. on September 11, 2001, the same day as the September 11 attacks, it contained the song \"NYC Is Like a Graveyard.\" The band expanded to a six-piece, with guitarists Jack Dishel and Aaron Wilkinson, bass player Steven Mertens, and drummer Strictly Beats, augmenting the original duo of Dawson and Green. They toured internationally with The Strokes with whom they shared record label and management.\nAaron Wilkinson left the band and was replaced by Toby Goodshank. Wilkinson died from an overdose in July 2003. The Strokes dedicated their album \"Room on Fire\" to his memory.\nIn 2003, a second album \"Moldy Peaches 2000\" was released, a double-CD compilation of various scraps and live recordings.\nAfter an extensive U.S. headlining tour in the winter of 2003, the band went into hiatus in early 2004. However, the band reunited in late 2004 for a one-off show to benefit Accidental CDs, Records and Tapes, a hole-in-the-wall record store on Ave A in NYC. That store was an early supporter of the band and helped hook them up with the gig that ultimately got them their record deal. Both central members embarked on solo careers.\nOn December 2, 2007, Dawson and Green played an impromptu set together at The Smell in Los Angeles to end a show where Dawson was headlining. They changed the lyrics of the song \"Who's Got The Crack\" to \"Who's Got The Blues\". On December 3, 2007, the Moldy Peaches played at the \"Juno\" film premiere.\nThe band was booked to appear on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" on January 14, 2008, but they canceled because of the writer's strike. Dawson has said that she is not keen to reform the band at present. However, Dawson and Green did appear together on the NPR radio show \"Bryant Park Project\" on January 16, 2008. and appeared on television show \"The View\" on January 21, 2008.\nSubsequent to the success of the \"Juno\" soundtrack, which hit No.\u00a01 on the \"Billboard\" 200 on its third week of physical release, the song \"Anyone Else but You\" was released as a UK single on February 25, 2008.\nOn November 13, 2011, the Moldy Peaches played a short set at the Knitting Factory in New York.\nThe Moldy Peaches played three European sets in 2023, in London, Barcelona and Madrid.\nOn August 10 and 11, 2023, The Moldy Peaches played two sets at Brooklyn Steel in Brooklyn, NY.\nOn October 13, 2024, the Moldy Peaches released an alternate version of 'Anyone Else but You'.\nSolo projects.\nGreen released his seventh solo album and accompanying film, \"Aladdin\", in 2016 via Fat Possum. His initial band included a 3-piece string section.\nDawson has continued to tour playing small clubs and house parties. Her album \"Remember That I Love You\" on K Records has been well received. Dawson collaborated with Aesop Rock on the album \"Hokey Fright\" under the name The Uncluded.\nDishel's former outfit Stipplicon having broken up, he formed a new band, Only Son, who have toured with Regina Spektor. Dishel also plays in Spektor's band.\nMertens has his own group SpaceCamp and plays in Green's backing band.\nCole is in the boyband Candy Boys and has performed with numerous acts including Dufus, Jeffrey Lewis, Only Son, Sandra Bernhard, and Toby Goodshank.\nGoodshank plays solo shows and is also in a duo, Double Deuce, with his sister Angela."}
{"id": "731709", "revid": "11952314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731709", "title": "Comoran language", "text": ""}
{"id": "731710", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731710", "title": "Plexicorp", "text": ""}
{"id": "731712", "revid": "19070420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731712", "title": "Transit of Deimos from Mars", "text": "A transit of Deimos across the Sun as seen from Mars occurs when Deimos passes directly between the Sun and a point on the surface of Mars, obscuring a small part of the Sun's disc for an observer on Mars. During a transit, Deimos can be seen from Mars as a small dark spot rapidly moving across the Sun's face.\nThe event could also be referred to as a partial eclipse of the Sun by Deimos. However, since the angular diameter of Deimos is only about 1/10 of the angular diameter of the Sun as seen from Mars, it is more natural to refer to it as a transit. The angular diameter of Deimos is only 2\u00bd times the angular diameter of Venus as seen from Earth during a transit of Venus from Earth.\nTransit.\nA transit of Deimos from Mars lasts a maximum of about two minutes, due to its relatively rapid orbital period of about 30.3 hours.\nBecause they orbit Mars in low-inclination equatorial orbits, the shadows of Phobos or Deimos projected onto the surface of Mars exhibit a seasonal variation in latitude. At any given geographical location on the surface of Mars, there are two intervals in a Martian year when the shadows of Phobos or Deimos are passing through its latitude. During each such interval, no or one transit of Deimos can be seen by observers at that geographical location (compared to about half a dozen transits of Phobos).\nThe shadow always falls on the \"winter hemisphere\", except when it crosses the equator during the March and September equinoxes. Thus transits of Deimos happen during Martian autumn and winter in the northern hemisphere and the southern hemisphere, roughly symmetrically around the winter solstice. Close to the equator they happen around the March and September equinoxes; farther from the equator they happen closer to the winter solstice.\nBecause it orbits relatively close to Mars, Deimos cannot be seen north of 82.7\u00b0N or south of 82.7\u00b0S; such latitudes will obviously not see transits either.\nOn 4 March 2004, a transit was photographed by Mars Rover \"Opportunity\", while on 13 March 2004, a transit was photographed by Mars Rover \"Spirit\". In the captions below, the first row shows Earth time UTC and the second row shows Martian local solar time.\nThe data in the tables below is generated using JPL Horizons. There is some discrepancy of a minute or two with the times reported for the series of images above. This may be due to imprecision in the ephemeris data used by JPL Horizons; also the JPL Horizons data gives local apparent solar time while the times reported above are probably some form of mean solar time (and therefore some of the discrepancy would be due to the Martian equivalent of the equation of time).\nNote: the data below is valid for the original landing sites. To the extent that the rovers have moved around on the surface, the parameters of the transits as actually observed may be slightly different.\nNear misses are in italics.\nMarch 5, 2024: NASA released images of transits of the moon Deimos, the moon Phobos and the planet Mercury as viewed by the \"Perseverance\" rover on the planet Mars.\nObservation by InSight.\nA transit lightcurve of Deimos was obtained in 2020 using the solar array currents measured by the InSight lander. The light drop was about 0.9% (possibly less than the predicted geometric obstruction of 1% due to light scattering by atmospheric dust outside the shadow). The transit lasted between 116 and 124 seconds."}
{"id": "731717", "revid": "58267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731717", "title": "Moldy Peaches", "text": ""}
{"id": "731719", "revid": "29307199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731719", "title": "Mazda RX-5", "text": ""}
{"id": "731721", "revid": "51433910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731721", "title": "Jordi Moll\u00e0", "text": "Jordi Moll\u00e0 Perales () is a Spanish actor, artist, writer, and filmmaker. He has been nominated three times for the Goya Award for Best Actor for \"The Lucky Star\" (1997), \"Second Skin\" (1999), and \"El c\u00f3nsul de Sodoma\" (2009).\nEarly life and education.\nJordi Moll\u00e0 y Perales was born and raised in Barcelona, Spain. He trained at the Institut del Teatre, and furthered his studies in Italy, Hungary, and England. His mother tongues are Catalan and Spanish, and he is fluent in English, Italian, and French.\nCareer.\nActing.\nMoll\u00e0 breakout role was in Bigas Luna's 1992 comedy drama \"Jam\u00f3n, jam\u00f3n,\" where he played the jilted lover of Pen\u00e9lope Cruz's character. Moll\u00e0 went on to star in other acclaimed films in his native country, including \"Stories from the Kronen\" and \"La Celestina.\" The latter earned him his first Goya Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. His subsequent starring role in \"The Lucky Star\" earned him widespread acclaim, earning him a Premios Ondas, a Butaca Award for Best Catalan Actor, and another Goya nomination, this time for Best Actor. He has since been nominated twice more, for \"Second Skin\" and \"El c\u00f3nsul de Sodoma.\"\nMoll\u00e0 made his Hollywood debut in the 2001 biographical crime film \"Blow,\" where he played a villainous drug trafficker based on Carlos Lehder. Moll\u00e0 subsequently played a similar character in Michael Bay's 2003 action sequel \"Bad Boys II,\" opposite Will Smith and Martin Lawrence. His co-star Gabrielle Union labeled him as \"The Tom Cruise of Spain,\" when praising his performance as drug lord Johnny Tapia. Moll\u00e0 then starred in \"The Tulse Luper Suitcases\", an ambitious multi-year, multi-media project created by avant-garde director Peter Greenaway. In 2004, he portrayed Juan Seguin, a Spanish-Tejano political and military figure of the Texas Revolution who helped to establish the independence of Texas in the movie, \"The Alamo.\"\nHe has subsequently starred in many high-profile feature films, including \",\" \"Knight and Day, , Colombiana, Riddick, In the Heart of the Sea,\" and \"The Man Who Killed Don Quixote.\" He starred in the second season of \"Jack Ryan\" as Venezuelan President Nicol\u00e1s Reyes.\nDirecting.\nMoll\u00e0 began directing short films in 1994. His debut, \"Walter Peralta,\" earned a Goya nomination for Best Documentary Short. He made his feature directorial debut in 2012 with \"88.\"\nArt.\nMoll\u00e0 is a self-taught painter. In the summer of 2002, he exhibited in at the Carmen de la Guerra Gallery, along with a number of other artists."}
{"id": "731724", "revid": "52043766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731724", "title": "The Mescaleros", "text": "The Mescaleros was the British backing band for British singer, musician and songwriter Joe Strummer. Formed in 1999, they issued two albums before Strummer's death from a heart attack in 2002 aged 50, and one posthumously. \nMany of the band members were multi-instrumentalists. The original line up consisted of Strummer on vocals and guitar; Antony Genn on guitar; Scott Shields on bass, guitar and drums; Martin Slattery on keyboards, guitar, occasional flute and saxophone; Pablo Cook on percussion; Steve \"Smiley\" Barnard on drums; and Richard Flack on various instruments.\nThe Mescaleros arose from Strummer's work with Pablo Cook and Richard Norris. The three of them originally came together to write the soundtracks for two short films, \"Tunnel of Love\", and \"Question of Honour\". The song \"Yalla Yalla\" was originally written by this trio, and mixed by Antony Genn. Once Genn was brought on board, a new song \"Techno D-Day\" was recorded, at which point Strummer, at the behest of Genn, began recording a new record.\nThe original drummer, Ged Lynch, left the band before recording on the \"Rock Art and the X-Ray Style\" album was complete and Steve Barnard, previously with Robbie Williams, was brought in to finish recording. Shields and Slattery were recruited through a number of contacts with the band. Slattery had also appeared on Williams' \"Life thru a Lens\" album, and Shields was a friend of Slattery's. Oddly enough, in the initial lineup, only Smiley was playing the instrument which he knew best.\nGenn reportedly did not have the ability to play sufficient lead guitar, so multi-instrumentalist Slattery, originally trained on horns and keyboards, was brought in. Strummer once joked that Slattery could play a hole in the windshield of the tour bus. Shields had previously been a drummer but was recruited to play bass, and later played guitar.\nHistory.\nThe Mescaleros' first gig was on 5 June 1999 at the Leadmill in Antony Genn's hometown of Sheffield. They toured extensively for the next six months in the US and Europe, appearing as well at the Glastonbury Festival. In 2000 the band played Big Day Out in Australia and New Zealand, as well as touring Japan.\nThe band signed with the Californian punk label Hellcat Records, and issued three albums. Following the release of the first, \"Rock Art and the X-Ray Style\", they toured England and North America; sets included several Clash-fan favourites.\nSinger-songwriter Tymon Dogg, a longtime friend of Joe Strummer, joined the band in 2000 playing violin and Spanish guitar. He contributed some of the tunes on \"Global a Go-Go\", including \"Mondo Bongo\".\nHonorary Mescaleros include John Blackburn and Jimmy Hogarth, both of whom played bass in place of Scott Shields on the 2000 tour supporting the Who, which was also Tymon Dogg's first tour with the band. Andy Boo, Strummer's guitar tech, also appeared in the Mescaleros line up in place of Pablo Cook on percussion at a gig in Finland 1999.\nFollowing the departure of Genn and Smiley, Scott Shields moved to guitar, Simon Stafford was brought on board to play bass, and Luke Bullen was recruited to play drums. Pablo Cook left in August 2001 to join Moby.\nFollowing the release of \"Global a Go-Go\", Joe Strummer and the Mescaleros mounted a 21-date tour of North America, Britain, and Ireland. Once again, these concerts featured Clash material (\"London Calling\", \"Rudie Can't Fail\"), as well as classic covers of reggae hits (\"The Harder They Come\", \"A Message to You, Rudy\") and regularly closed the show with a nod to Joey Ramone by playing the Ramones' \"Blitzkrieg Bop\".\nMusically, the Mescaleros continued the genre mixing that Strummer was known for during his time with the Clash. Elements of reggae, jazz, funk, hip hop, country, and of course punk rock can be found in the three Mescaleros releases.\nThe band is also the subject of a documentary by Dick Rude titled \"Let's Rock Again!\" which was released on 27 June 2006. The band also appear on many DVDs (see full list below) and have had several of their songs appear in major films such as \"Black Hawk Down\" and \"Mr. &amp; Mrs. Smith\". One song, \"Johnny Appleseed,\" was used as the theme song to the HBO series \"John From Cincinnati\".\nJoe Strummer &amp; the Mescaleros' last concert was on 22 November 2002, in Liverpool. This show is often overlooked however, in favor of citing the 15 November show at Acton Town Hall. It was this show, which was a benefit for striking fire fighters, that Mick Jones joined Strummer on stage for the first time in nearly twenty years, during the Clash song \"Bankrobber\". An encore followed with both \"White Riot\" and \"London's Burning\". \"The Last Night London Burned\", a 64-page book written by George Binette, showing never before published pictures of Joe Strummer and Mick Jones, and a 26-minute film by Gregg McDonald and Alan Miles, were released as a unique visual record of that last London concert by Joe Strummer &amp; the Mescaleros. Following the conclusion of this tour, the band headed straight for the studio, but Strummer died of a congenital heart defect on 22 December 2002 after returning home from walking his dogs.\nThe band's final album \"Streetcore\" was released, after Strummer's death, on 20 October 2003.\nThe band also made appearances on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", as well as touring on the Hootenany Festival in the summer of 2001.\nVarious Mescaleros members have performed at numerous tribute concerts in both UK and Europe. Pablo Cook and Smiley together with Mike Peters (the Alarm), Derek Forbes (Simple Minds), Steve Harris (Gary Numan) are members of Los Mondo Bongo, a celebration of the music of Joe Strummer, who together with Ray Gange (DJ) tour whenever possible, performing Mescaleros tunes.\nAntony Genn currently fronts the Hours, a band that he and Martin Slattery formed in 2004.\nIn an October 2013 interview with BBC 6 Music, Mick Jones confirmed that in the months prior to Strummer's death, the two were writing new music together. At the time, Jones assumed the new songs would be on an upcoming Mescaleros album. But months later he ran into Strummer at an event, and Strummer informed him that the music was intended for a new Clash album.\nDiscography.\nMusic videos.\nDVDs on which Joe Strummer &amp; the Mescaleros appear:"}
{"id": "731726", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731726", "title": "James Arness", "text": "James Arness (born James King Aurness; May 26, 1923 \u2013 June 3, 2011) was an American actor, best known for portraying Marshal Matt Dillon for 20 years in the series \"Gunsmoke\". He has the distinction of having played the role of Dillon in five decades: 1955 to 1975 in the weekly series, then in \"\" (1987) and four more made-for-television \"Gunsmoke\" films in the 1990s. In Europe, Arness reached cult status for his role as Zeb Macahan in the Western series \"How the West Was Won\". He was the older brother of actor Peter Graves.\nEarly life.\nJames Arness was born in Minneapolis. His parents were businessman Rolf Cirkler Aurness and journalist Ruth Duesler. His father's ancestry was Norwegian; his mother's was German. The family name had been Aursnes, but when Rolf's father, Peter Aursnes, emigrated from Norway in 1887, he changed it to Aurness. James Arness and his family were Methodists. Arness' younger brother was actor Peter Graves. Peter used the stage name \"Graves\", a maternal family name.\nArness attended John Burroughs Grade School, Washburn High School, and West High School in Minneapolis. During that time, Arness worked as a courier for a jewelry wholesaler, loading and unloading railway boxcars at the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad freight yards in Minneapolis and logging in Pierce, Idaho. Despite \"being a poor student and skipping many classes,\" he graduated from high school in June 1942.\nArness entered Beloit College that fall, where he joined the campus choir and became a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity.\nMilitary service in World War II.\nAlthough Arness wanted to be a naval fighter pilot, he was concerned his poor eyesight would bar him. However, it was his 6-ft, 7.5-in (2.019 m) frame that ended his chances because the height limit for aviators was set at 6\u00a0ft, 2.5 in (1.88 m). He was drafted into the US Army and reported to Fort Snelling in Hennepin County, Minnesota in March 1943. As a rifleman, he landed on Anzio Beachhead on January 22, 1944, with the 2nd Platoon, E Company, 2nd Battalion, 7th Infantry Regiment of the 3rd Infantry Division. Arness\u2013because of his height\u2013was the first man to be ordered off the landing craft to determine the depth of the water; it came up to his waist. \nHe was severely wounded in his right leg during the Battle of Anzio, and medically evacuated from Italy to the US, where he was sent to the 91st General Hospital in Clinton, Iowa. His brother Peter (later known as actor Peter Graves) came to see him when he was beginning his long recuperation, assuring him to not worry about his injuries, that likely he could find work in the field of radio. After undergoing several surgeries, he was honorably discharged from the Army on January 29, 1945. His wounds continued to trouble him, though, throughout the remainder of his life. In his later years, he suffered from chronic leg pain that often became acute, and was sometimes initiated when he was mounted on horses during his performances on \"Gunsmoke.\" \nHis military decorations included the Bronze Star, the Purple Heart, the American Campaign Medal, the European\u2013African\u2013Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with three bronze battle stars and arrowhead device, the World War II Victory Medal, and the Combat Infantryman Badge.\nActing career.\nAfter his discharge from the service, Arness began his entertainment career as a radio announcer at Minneapolis station WLOL in 1945.\nDetermined to find work in films, Arness hitchhiked to Hollywood, where he made the rounds to agencies and casting calls and soon began acting and appearing in films. He made his movie debut at RKO, which immediately changed his name from \"Aurness\". His film debut was as Loretta Young's (Katie Holstrom) brother, Peter Holstrom, in \"The Farmer's Daughter\". He was credited in \"The Farmer's Daughter\" as Aurness.\nThough identified as appearing in Westerns, Arness also acted in two science-fiction films, \"The Thing from Another World\" (in which he portrayed the titular character) and \"Them!\" He became a close friend of John Wayne and appeared in supporting roles in \"Big Jim McLain\", \"Hondo\", \"Island in the Sky\" and \"The Sea Chase\", all starring Wayne. Arness starred in \"Gun the Man Down\", a fast-paced Western, for Wayne's production company. He also starred in a 1988 TV remake of Wayne's 1948 classic \"Red River\", appearing in Wayne's role as Tom Dunson.\nAn urban legend has it that John Wayne turned down the starring role of Matt Dillon in the classic television Western \"Gunsmoke\", instead recommending James Arness for the part. The only true part of this story is that Wayne did indeed recommend Arness for the role; Wayne was never offered the part. Wayne appeared in a prologue to the first episode of \"Gunsmoke\" in 1955, in which he introduced Arness as Matt Dillon. The Norwegian-German Arness had to dye his naturally blond hair darker for the role. Arvo Ojala, who taught Arness to shoot, was the first of several actors in the show's opening where Marshal Dillon has a shootout with what is described as \"a generic bad guy\" representing all those which Dillon must deal with. \"Gunsmoke\" made Arness and his co-stars, Milburn Stone, Amanda Blake, Dennis Weaver, Ken Curtis, Burt Reynolds, and Buck Taylor world-famous, and ran for two decades, becoming the longest-running primetime drama series in American television history by the end of its run in 1975. The series' season record was tied in 2010 with the final season of \"Law &amp; Order\" and tied again in 2018 with season 20 of \"\". Unlike the latter show, \"Gunsmoke\" featured its lead character in each of its 20 seasons; \"Gunsmoke\" also aired 179 more episodes, and was in the top 10 in the ratings for 11 more seasons, for a total of 13, including four consecutive seasons at number one.\nAfter \"Gunsmoke\" ended, Arness performed in Western-themed movies and television series, including \"How the West Was Won\", and in five made-for-television \"Gunsmoke\" movies between 1987 and 1994. An exception was as a big-city police officer in a short-lived 1981\u20131982 series, \"McClain's Law\", starring with Marshall Colt. His role as mountain man Zeb Macahan in \"How the West Was Won\" made him a cult figure in many European countries, where it became even more popular than in the United States, as the series has been rebroadcast many times across Europe.\n\"James Arness: An Autobiography\" was released in September 2001, with a foreword by Reynolds (who had been a cast member of \"Gunsmoke\" for several years in the 1960s). Arness realized, \"[I]f I was going to write a book about my life, I better do it now ... 'cause I'm not getting any younger.\"\nPersonal life.\nArness married Virginia Chapman in 1948, and adopted her son Craig (1946 \u2013 December 14, 2004). Arness and Chapman also had a son, Rolf (born February 18, 1952), and a daughter, Jenny Lee Arness (May 23, 1950\u00a0\u2013 May 12, 1975). Rolf Aurness became World Surfing Champion in 1970. Craig Arness founded the stock photography agency Westlight and also was a photographer for \"National Geographic\". When Virginia and James divorced in 1960, Arness was granted legal custody of the children. Daughter Jenny died of an apparently deliberate drug overdose in 1975. His former wife Virginia died of an accidental drug overdose in 1977.\nFour years after his divorce from Virginia Chapman, James Arness met Thordis Brandt, who was his girlfriend for six years before they ended their relationship. In 1978, Arness married Janet Surtees.\nDespite his stoic character, according to Ben Bates, his \"Gunsmoke\" stunt double, Arness laughed \"from his toes to the top of his head\". Shooting on the \"Gunsmoke\" set was sometimes suspended because Arness got a case of the uncontrollable giggles. James Arness disdained publicity and banned reporters from the \"Gunsmoke\" set. He was said to be a shy and sensitive man who enjoyed poetry, yacht racing, and surfing. \"TV Guide\" dubbed him \"The Greta Garbo of Dodge City\". Buck Taylor thought so highly of Arness that he named his second son, Matthew, after Arness' character.\nDeath.\nArness died from natural causes at the age of 88 years at his Brentwood home in Los Angeles on June 3, 2011.\nAwards.\nFor his contributions to the television industry, Arness has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 1751 Vine Street. In 1981, he was inducted into the Western Performers Hall of Fame at the National Cowboy &amp; Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City. Arness was inducted into the Santa Clarita Walk of Western Stars in 2006, and gave a related TV interview.\nOn the 50th anniversary of television in 1989 in the United States, \"People\" magazine chose the \"top 25 television stars of all time.\" Arness was number six. In 1996, \"TV Guide\" ranked him number 20 on its \"50 Greatest TV Stars of All Time\" list.\nArness was nominated for these Emmy Awards:"}
{"id": "731728", "revid": "1808194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731728", "title": "Golden Path (Dune)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731730", "revid": "1185613187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731730", "title": "Taiwan Question", "text": ""}
{"id": "731731", "revid": "45998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731731", "title": "Judith Merrill", "text": ""}
{"id": "731732", "revid": "3391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731732", "title": "Kosciuszko", "text": ""}
{"id": "731733", "revid": "46469420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731733", "title": "Adam Blue Galli", "text": "Adam Blue Gallis was one of a group of criminals known as the \"Preppie Bandits\" (due to their clean cut appearance, a propensity for dressing like \"preppies\", and their habit of hanging out in Salt Lake City's coffeeshops). They operated in and around Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1992. The other members were his brother Aaron Galli and his cousins Nathan and Christopher. He fled the state after being charged with murder and robbery, and was recaptured after being featured on America's Most Wanted. In an odd twist, patrons and employees at the restaurant where the murder occurred were watching the program, and alerted police to the presence of another person featured on the same episode, who was currently working at the same restaurant.\nArmed robberies.\nIn 1992, Galli, along with his brother Aaron, and two cousins, Nathan and Christopher Galli, committed a string of armed robberies in Salt Lake City. On April 29, 1992, Galli, Nathan and Christopher robbed the King's English Bookstore in Salt Lake City. Galli and Christopher went inside the bookstore while Nathan waited outside for the purpose of running interference if the police were called. Galli pointed a gun at the store clerk and took approximately $250 in cash from the two cash registers at the store.\nOn May 5, 1992, Galli and Christopher, armed with handguns, robbed the Trolley Corners Theaters. While Galli and Christopher were inside the theater, Aaron and Nathan waited outside in a separate car to keep lookout. After stealing approximately $900 in cash from the theater, Galli and Christopher fled, pursued by a witness. Nathan pulled up in the car and told the witness to call the police while he chased the robbers to obtain their license plate number.\nOn June 6, 1992, Galli, wearing a black wig, entered the Tool Shed and pointed a gun at store clerk Sylvia Nordhoff. He told her, \"This is a stickup, give me all of your money or I'll kill you.\" When Ms. Nordhoff refused to hand over the money, Galli grabbed nearly $180 in cash from the cash register and fled. Ms. Nordoff tackled him just outside the store, where her son Michael helped her hold Galli down. Christopher Galli, who was waiting outside, threatened Ms. Nordhoff and her son with a weapon and told them to let Adam go. Galli and Christopher then ran to their car and drove off. When witnesses attempted to pursue the two men, Nathan drove up and told them to call the police while he chased the robbers. Nathan later returned to the scene and gave false information to the police.\nCharges.\nIn June and July 1992, Galli was charged with all three armed robberies and warrants for his arrest were issued. On July 10, 1992, he was arrested in King County, Washington. While being held in the King County Jail in Seattle, he was advised of his Miranda rights by two detectives from the Salt Lake City Police Department. Galli voluntarily waived his Miranda rights, and during questioning, confessed to all three robberies. Galli later moved to suppress his statements to the police, contending that during questioning he had reinvoked both his right to counsel and his right to remain silent. His claim that his confession was therefore obtained in violation of Miranda v. Arizona was later denied.\nPrior to his trial, Galli was released from custody after his family posted $40,000 bond. However, in November, Galli, facing a total of five charges for armed robbery, fled the state in anticipation of being charged with the May 17, 1992, murder of Green Parrot Restaurant employee Merritt Riordan, murdered during a botched robbery attempt. Galli's family forfeited nearly $40,000 in cash and real estate as a result of his flight from justice. The murder charge against Galli was eventually dropped due to lack of evidence.\nArrest.\nIn August 1995, Galli, then living under the alias \"August Cedergren\", was arrested at his job at a Northfield, Minnesota, cabinetmaking shop following an anonymous tip to the FBI. It is believed the tip came from a Northfield resident who recognized him from a photograph on a Wanted poster in the local Post Office. Upon his return to Utah, Galli pleaded guilty to three of five aggravated robbery counts\u2014the other two charges were dismissed in a plea-bargain deal.\nSentence.\nJudge Pat B. Brian sentenced him to an indeterminate term of five years to life in prison and ordered him to pay $40,000 in restitution to his family for the money they forfeited when he absconded. Judge Glenn K. Iwasaki sentenced him to an indeterminate term of five years to life in prison with his sentence to run consecutively to Judge Brian's sentence. Judge Kenneth Rigtrup also sentenced him to five years to life in prison with his sentence to run consecutively to the sentences imposed by Judge Brian and Judge Iwasaki.\nParole.\nA parole board later granted Galli an early release.\n\"August Cedergren\" is currently living in Ely, Minnesota. He also uses the alias \"August Settergren\"."}
{"id": "731734", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731734", "title": "Luis Mu\u00f1oz Rivera", "text": "Luis Mu\u00f1oz Rivera (July 17, 1859 \u2013 November 15, 1916) was a Puerto Rican poet, journalist and politician. He was a major figure in the struggle for political autonomy of Puerto Rico in union with Spain.\nIn 1887, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera became part of the leadership of a newly formed Autonomist Party. In 1889, he successfully ran a campaign for the position of delegate in the district of Caguas. Subsequently, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera was a member of a group organized by the party to discuss proposals of autonomy with Pr\u00e1xedes Mateo Sagasta, who would grant Puerto Rico an autonomous government following his election. He served as Chief of the Cabinet of this government.\nOn August 13, 1898, the Treaty of Paris transferred possession of Puerto Rico from Spain to the United States and a military government was established. In 1899, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera resigned his position within the cabinet and remained inactive in politics for some time. In 1909, he was elected as Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico and participated in the creation of the Jones-Shafroth Act, proposing amendments before its final approval. Shortly after, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera contracted an infection and traveled to Puerto Rico, where he died on November 15, 1916. His son, Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn would subsequently become involved in politics, becoming the first democratically elected Governor of Puerto Rico.\nEarly life.\nLuis Mu\u00f1oz Rivera was born in Barranquitas, Puerto Rico, to Luis Mu\u00f1oz Barrios and Monserrate Rivera Vazquez. He was the couple's first child and a banquet was offered in celebration. He came from a middle-class family and was not part of Puerto Rico's elite. His father came from one of the first patriarchal lines in Puerto Rico's politics.\nHis Paternal Grandfather Luis Mu\u00f1oz Iglesias was from Castile in central Spain who decided to make his career in the army and received several recognitions after participating against Sim\u00f3n Bol\u00edvar during the Admirable Campaign, and followed his commanding officer Miguel de la Torre to Puerto Rico. He settled in a farm in Cidra, Puerto Rico, married Mar\u00eda Escol\u00e1stica Barrios and fathered twelve children. He became the town's first mayor from 1818 to 1820 and again in 1840 to 1850.\nDuring Mu\u00f1oz Rivera's childhood, Barranquitas was a small rural town. The family's house was moderately large for the time; it was built with wood and its roof was made with zinc. When he was four, his mother home-schooled him with books from a private library owned by his father. By the age of ten, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera completed the education offered in the town's school, and finished first in his class. He was educated in Spanish and French, and took music classes with Jorge Colombani. His father hired private tutors to continue his instruction. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera was a serious student with a strong interest in Miguel de Cervantes' works, in particular \"Don Quixote\". Other authors that he studied include Fernando de Herrera, Tirso de Molina, Luis de G\u00f3ngora, and Lope de Vega.\nWhen Mu\u00f1oz Rivera was twelve years old, his mother fell ill and died. By this time, the family had grown to include nine more siblings, whom he taught. By the age of fourteen, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera was managing legal documents, working with the local church clergy, and helping in his father's store. There were no institutions of higher learning on the island at that time, and most families sent their children to Cuba (University of la Habana, founded in 1728), Spain or North America to complete their university education. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera wanted to travel to Spain and study law, but his father wanted him to take care of the family's business.\nPolitical career.\nEarly involvement in politics and poetry.\nEarly in his life, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera began writing poetry. However, he did not publish any of his work until he was 23 years old. In 1882, Mario Braschi, an editor working for a newspaper named \"El Pueblo\", accepted to publish a poem titled \"\u00a1Adelante!\". Braschi advised Mu\u00f1oz Rivera to continue writing, urging him to concentrate on science and politics, instead of authoring love poems. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera then began writing about Puerto Rico's political status, promoting the necessity of an autonomous government.\nEven though his father was a member of the Conservative Party, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera decided to follow his uncle, Vicente Mu\u00f1oz Barrios ideals and in 1883 joined the Liberal Party. While working within the organization, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera established a store along Quint\u00edn Negr\u00f3n Sanjurjo, which had limited success. He gained the confidence of the Liberal Party and was named president of Barranquitas' committee and became a member of the municipal council. In 1885, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera ran for a position in the Juana Diaz district's representation in the Provincial Assembly, but he was not elected. That same year, he began publishing his writings in newspapers and magazines, including \"El Clamor del Pueblo\", \"La Revista de Puerto Rico\" and \"El Pueblo\". Other poems published by Mu\u00f1oz Rivera were: \"Retamas\", \"Tropicales\", \"Horas de Fiebre\", \"El paso del d\u00e9spota\", \"Minha terra\", \"Cuba rebelde\", \"A cualquier compatriota\", \"Las campanas\", \"Turba multa\", \"Alea jacta est\", \"Judas\", \"El general\", \"Abismos\", \"Patriota\", \"Himno\", \"Parias\" and \"Poemas Liricos\".\nEstablishing an autonomous government.\nIn January 1887, members of the Liberal Party organized a convention in Coamo where they discussed the reorganization of the party. In this activity he met Rom\u00e1n Baldorioty de Castro, who became his mentor, regarding Mu\u00f1oz Rivera as a \"disciple\". A new party called the Autonomist Party was created following this reunion, which also included Jos\u00e9 Celso Barbosa and Jos\u00e9 de Diego. The organization's ideology pursued the creation of a separate government for Puerto Rico, while keeping some relationship with Spain.\nThe Autonomist Party's base grew rapidly, in part due to Mu\u00f1oz Rivera's writings and speeches directed toward the \"j\u00edbaro\" population. The Conservative Party considered this a threat and closed the newspapers where he published his work, sending part of their staff to jail in Fort San Felipe del Morro. After Francisco Cepeda Taborcias, editor of \"La Revista de Puerto Rico's\" was jailed, the position was offered to Mu\u00f1oz Rivera, who accepted it. After being released from prison, Cepeda criticized Baldorioty de Castro's policies. Cepeda was elected secretary of the party and Baldorioty de Castro was named honorary president. This action angered Mu\u00f1oz Rivera, who challenged him to a duel. Cepeda originally accepted the challenge, but later declined the same once the preparations were underway, losing his position within the party's hierarchy.\nAs 1887 progressed, the conflicts between liberals and conservatives worsened, with governor Palacio ordering the arrest of more than a hundred liberals. The political tension increased and the year became known as \"The Terrible Year\". Palavio also prohibited any person from leaving Puerto Rico with the intention of preventing any actions from Spain. However, the liberals were able to send Juan Arrillaga Roque to Madrid, where he made the situation public. Upon learning of this, Alfonso XII replaced Palacio with Juan Contreras Martinez. In 1889, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera was nominated as the Liberal Party's delegate for the district of Juana Diaz. However, his father was nominated for the same position by the Conservative Party and he moved his nomination to the district of Caguas out of respect. He won the election, which was admitted with the conservatives' opposition.\nOn July 1, 1890, he founded the party's newspaper, \"La Democrac\u00eda\", in Ponce, Puerto Rico. The publication was mostly directed towards politics, but it also included poetry and stories published by Puerto Rican artists. The newspaper brought immediate controversy, which eventually led to Mu\u00f1oz Rivera's arrest. Protest were organized throughout Puerto Rico and he was released after his father paid 15,000 pesetas as bond. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera sold his half of the store, in order to raise funds for the publication's establishment.\nIn 1893, he married Amalia Mar\u00edn in a ceremony that took place in Ponce Cathedral. Later that year, he traveled to Spain to learn about its political system. There he realized that Pr\u00e1xedes Mateo Sagasta, president of the Fusion Party, was the better option to help in this task. While in Spain, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera received notice that his father had died, which heavily affected him. Upon returning to Puerto Rico, he published an article about his father in \"La Democracia\". He subsequently noticed that his travel had caused controversy within the Autonomist Party, which became divided between followers of Barbosa and Mu\u00f1oz Rivera, with the two factions becoming known as \"Mu\u00f1ocistas\" and \"Barbosistas\".\nBarbosa's group opposed allying with Sagasta, claiming that he was a monarchist while they were supporting the establishment of a republic. Meanwhile, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera participated in the writing of the \"Plan de Ponce\" which proposed administrative autonomy for the island. After several debates, the Autonomist Party agreed to send four men to reunite with Libera Fusion Party in the organization's behalf, including Mu\u00f1oz Rivera. Sagasta proposed that if he won the premiership of Spain, Puerto Rico would receive a Chapter of Autonomy which would give it the same degree of sovereignty that the Spanish provinces had. Upon learning of this, most of the \"Barbosistas\" resigned, forming a new institution named the Orthodox Autonomist Party. Sagasta became Spain's prime minister following the power vacuum that occurred after the assassination of Antonio C\u00e1novas del Castillo, and in December 1897 he granted the promised autonomous government. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera changed the party's name to Liberal Party of Puerto Rico and served as Secretary of Grace, Justice and Government and Chief of the Cabinet for the independent government of Puerto Rico.\nAmerican invasion and military government.\nOn February 18, 1898, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera's son, Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn, was born. By this time the family had moved to Old San Juan, where Luis was born. On February 16, 1898, Barbosa rushed to Mu\u00f1oz Rivera's home. He had just learned that the American vessel USS Maine had sunk off the coast of Cuba, which would most likely spark a war between Spain and the United States. Barbosa expected the American government to grant Puerto Rico autonomy if they gained control. However, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera was saddened by the news, knowing that the United States was planning to build a canal in Panama, and that Puerto Rico would be a strategic location to protect the structure. Barbosa insisted that this would not happen, continuing his support towards a military operation.\nOn May 12, 1898, the United States Navy bombarded San Juan, initiating the Puerto Rican Campaign. Initially, the Liberal Party supported the Spanish government, although several members agreed with Barbosa. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera took possession of Chief of the Cabinet's position for the Autonomous Government on July 21. Four days later, on July 25, the United States Army landed in Gu\u00e1nica led by Nelson A. Miles, beginning the land offensive. On August 13, the signing of the Treaty of Paris was made public, bringing a halt to all military offensives in Puerto Rico. As part of this amnesty, Spain ceded Cuba and Puerto Rico, converting the archipelago into a possession of the United States under military governorship. The \"Barbosistas\" welcomed the American government, but Mu\u00f1oz Rivera expected them to keep Puerto Rico as a possession. He refused to cooperate with the military government and returned to Barranquitas, where he wrote a poem titled \"S\u00edsifo\", comparing Puerto Rico's political situation to Sisyphus' punishment. He subsequently returned to San Juan, accepting a request made by John R. Brooke to continue in his office within the new cabinet. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera assisted in establishing an insular police. Brooke was replaced by Guy Vernon Henry as military governor. Following this change, both men began having violent discussions, with each one trying to push their positions. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera would vocally debate several of Brooke's decisions, with both communicating via an interpreter.\nOn February 4, 1899, he resigned from the position of president of the Council of Secretaries. Puerto Rico was experiencing a serious economic crisis, many problems arising from the population's inability to communicate with the Americans. Universal election suffrage was canceled, reducing the voting population by more than 85%. Henry eventually dissolved the Cabinet, removing the final remnants of recognition of the autonomous government established under Spanish rule. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera opposed the military structure and promoted autonomy. Later that year, he founded the newspaper \"El Territorio\", which voiced the concerns of landowners that were being affected by a blockade imposed by the United States. On April 12, 1900, William McKinley signed the Foraker Act, which proposed the end of the military government and the establishment of a civil government. A Supreme Court was created with five members, all of which were American functionaries appointed by the United States President. The position of Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico was also enacted. The \"Barbosistas\" considered this law an advance, eventually creating a new institution named the Republican Party of Puerto Rico. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera published heavy criticism towards them in \"El Diario\", which angered the members of the new organization. Rumors of an assassination attempt became widespread, and several of his friends visited his house armed. A discussion between both sides concluded with gunfire, leaving no one injured, some of the perpetrators escaped. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera and those present were arrested and charged with \"armed assault\", but the charge was dropped when he established that he acted in self-defense. The Foraker act failed to prevent the monopolization of land, and allowed four American corporations to control of most of Puerto Rico's agricultural terrains.\nLast years and death.\nThe United States eventually designed a program to \"Americanize\" Puerto Rico. One day while working for an article in \"El Diario\", a friend of Mu\u00f1oz Rivera brought a newspaper informing that all education in Puerto Rican public schools would be taught in English. He was surprised by the announcement, expressing that the plan would fail due to lack of teachers with knowledge in the language. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera began publishing articles directed towards the \"j\u00edbaro\" population, in which he promoted self-government for Puerto Rico.\nIn 1901, a group of statehood supporters broke into the \"El Diario's\" building, vandalizing most of the equipment. Following this incident, the family moved to Caguas where he reopened \"La Democracia\". After receiving further threats from the statehood movements, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera decided to move to New York City, not before leaving the paper's editing in charge of one of his followers. There he founded the bilingual newspaper \"Puerto Rico Herald\", in which he heavily criticized the United States' stance on Puerto Rico. During the following years, the family constantly traveled between both locations. Mu\u00f1oz Rivera, together with Rosendo Matienzo Cintr\u00f3n, Antonio R. Barcel\u00f3, Jos\u00e9 de Diego and Juan V\u00edas Ochoteco founded the Union of Puerto Rico party, which won the election in 1904. Following the party's victory, he was selected as a member the House of Delegates.\nIn 1910, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera ran for Resident Commissioner in the United States House of Representatives representing the Union of Puerto Rico party, and served from 1911 to 1916. After spending nearly a year perfecting his English, Mu\u00f1oz Rivera began forming friendships with some congressmen. Among these were Henry L. Stimpson and Felix Frankfurter. In 1915 Mu\u00f1oz Rivera proposed granting Puerto Rico greater autonomy without requesting independence from the United States, and equal rights without becoming a state. His proposal was greeted by opposition from many members of his party including Jos\u00e9 de Diego. Still in the end, his party agreed on his proposal.\nOn March 2, 1917, the Jones-Shafroth Act was signed, granting United States citizenship to Puerto Ricans and creating a bicameral Legislative Assembly. Still, he was not pleased with the Jones Act since the judicial and executive branches were still controlled by the United States. On March 16, 1916, he gave a speech in the house floor that seemed to argue in favor and against American citizenship. He declared that if the earth were to swallow the island, Puerto Ricans would prefer American citizenship to any citizenship in the world. But as long as the island existed, the residents preferred Puerto Rican citizenship.\nShortly afterwards, he became ill and returned to Puerto Rico to recuperate. In late 1916, Eduardo Georgetti, a friend of the family, summoned his wife and son to Puerto Rico and informed them that he was suffering from an infection that had begun in the galbladder, before expanding throughout his body. Luis Mu\u00f1oz Rivera died on November 15, 1916, in the town of San Juan, before the Jones Act was enacted into law. When he died, the town's bells were tolled and \"La Borinque\u00f1a\" was sung by those present. The funeral procession began five days after his death It traveled throughout Puerto Rico and was attended by thousands of people along the way. Some \"J\u00edbaros\" traveled between municipalities to attend more than one part of the activity. Mu\u00f1oz' remains were buried at the Mu\u00f1oz Rivera Family Mausoleum in Barranquitas, Puerto Rico."}
{"id": "731735", "revid": "18779361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731735", "title": "Java class file", "text": "A Java class file is a file (with the filename extension) containing Java bytecode that can be executed on the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). A Java class file is usually produced by a Java compiler from Java programming language source files ( files) containing Java classes (alternatively, other JVM languages can also be used to create class files). If a source file has more than one class, each class is compiled into a separate class file. Thus, it is called a file because it contains the bytecode for a single class.\nJVMs are available for many platforms, and a class file compiled on one platform will execute on a JVM of another platform. This makes Java applications platform-independent.\nHistory.\nOn 11 December 2006, the class file format was modified under Java Specification Request (JSR) 202.\nFile layout and structure.\nSections.\nThere are 10 basic sections to the Java class file structure:\nMagic Number.\nClass files are identified by the following 4 byte header (in hexadecimal): codice_2 (the first 4 entries in the table below). The history of this magic number was explained by James Gosling referring to a restaurant in Palo Alto:\n\"We used to go to lunch at a place called St Michael's Alley. According to local legend, in the deep dark past, the Grateful Dead used to perform there before they made it big. It was a pretty funky place that was definitely a Grateful Dead Kinda Place. When Jerry died, they even put up a little Buddhist-esque shrine. When we used to go there, we referred to the place as Cafe Dead. Somewhere along the line it was noticed that this was a HEX number. I was re-vamping some file format code and needed a couple of magic numbers: one for the persistent object file, and one for classes. I used CAFEDEAD for the object file format, and in grepping for 4 character hex words that fit after \"CAFE\" (it seemed to be a good theme) I hit on BABE and decided to use it.\nAt that time, it didn't seem terribly important or destined to go anywhere but the trash-can of history. So CAFEBABE became the class file format, and CAFEDEAD was the persistent object format. But the persistent object facility went away, and along with it went the use of CAFEDEAD - it was eventually replaced by RMI.\"\nGeneral layout.\nBecause the class file contains variable-sized items and does not also contain embedded file offsets (or pointers), it is typically parsed sequentially, from the first byte toward the end. At the lowest level the file format is described in terms of a few fundamental data types:\nSome of these fundamental types are then re-interpreted as higher-level values (such as strings or floating-point numbers), depending on context.\nThere is no enforcement of word alignment, and so no padding bytes are ever used.\nThe overall layout of the class file is as shown in the following table.\nRepresentation of a class file.\nThe following is a representation of a file as if it were a C-style struct.\nstruct ClassFileFormat {\n u4 magicNumber;\n u2 minorVersion; \n u2 majorVersion;\n u2 constantPoolCount; \n ConstantPoolInfo[constantPoolCount - 1] constantPool;\n u2 accessFlags;\n u2 thisClass;\n u2 superClass;\n u2 interfacesCount; \n u2[interfacesCount] interfaces;\n u2 fieldsCount; \n FieldInfo[fieldsCount] fields;\n u2 methodsCount;\n MethodInfo[methodsCount] methods;\n u2 attributesCount; \n AttributeInfo[attributesCount] attributes;\nThe constant pool.\nThe constant pool table is where most of the literal constant values are stored. This includes values such as numbers of all sorts, strings, identifier names, references to classes and methods, and type descriptors. All indexes, or references, to specific constants in the constant pool table are given by 16-bit (type u2) numbers, where index value 1 refers to the first constant in the table (index value 0 is invalid).\nDue to historic choices made during the file format development, the number of constants in the constant pool table is not actually the same as the constant pool count which precedes the table. First, the table is indexed starting at 1 (rather than 0), but the count should actually be interpreted as the maximum index plus one. Additionally, two types of constants (longs and doubles) take up two consecutive slots in the table, although the second such slot is a phantom index that is never directly used.\nThe type of each item (constant) in the constant pool is identified by an initial byte \"tag\". The number of bytes following this tag and their interpretation are then dependent upon the tag value. The valid constant types and their tag values are:\nThere are only two integral constant types, integer and long. Other integral types appearing in the high-level language, such as boolean, byte, and short must be represented as an integer constant.\nClass names in Java, when fully qualified, are traditionally dot-separated, such as \"java.lang.Object\". However within the low-level Class reference constants, an internal form appears which uses slashes instead, such as \"java/lang/Object\".\nThe Unicode strings, despite the moniker \"UTF-8 string\", are not actually encoded according to the Unicode standard, although it is similar. There are two differences (see UTF-8 for a complete discussion). The first is that the code point U+0000 is encoded as the two-byte sequence codice_3 (in hex) instead of the standard single-byte encoding codice_4. The second difference is that supplementary characters (those outside the BMP at U+10000 and above) are encoded using a surrogate-pair construction similar to UTF-16 rather than being directly encoded using UTF-8. In this case each of the two surrogates is encoded separately in UTF-8. For example, U+1D11E is encoded as the 6-byte sequence codice_5, rather than the correct 4-byte UTF-8 encoding of codice_6."}
{"id": "731736", "revid": "753665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731736", "title": "Beachworld", "text": "\"Beachworld\" is a science fiction short story by Stephen King, first published in \"Weird Tales\" in 1984, and collected in King's 1985 collection \"Skeleton Crew\".\nPlot summary.\n\"Beachworld\" is set in an undefined distant future. Among the few clues to the date is the passing reference that the last of the Beach Boys died eight thousand years ago (hence, approximately in the 11th millennium CE).\nTwo crewmembers, Rand and Shapiro, survive the crash-landing of their spacecraft on an uncharted planet made up entirely of sand. Rand becomes hypnotized by the endless dunes and refuses to either move from the very spot he's standing on or drink water. Shapiro also feels drawn to the dunes but, unlike Rand, finds this hypnosis frightening and is relieved to go inside their shipwreck, where the dunes are out of sight. At one point he sees, or imagines, how the unnamed world once hosted civilized intelligent life, but over time the cities, bodies of water, and ultimately everything on the planet was overtaken and buried by the sand.\nWhen another spacecraft arrives in response to Shapiro's distress beacon, the crew initially treat his account with skepticism. Rand fights them off, drawing strength from his eroded sanity. The captain sends out an android to force Rand to leave, but it quickly breaks down as sand gets into it. The sand also rises up to stop a tranquilizer dart a crewman fires at Rand. As the black glass burned into the sand by the ship's thrusters on landing steadily crumbles, the captain finally heeds Shapiro's demands to leave. The ship lifts off, narrowly managing to reach escape velocity as a giant hand-shaped wave of sand tries to bring it down. Rand stares up at the ship as it disappears and begins to pile handfuls of sand into his mouth.\nAdaptations.\nA live action version of Beachworld was released in 2015 by filmmaker Chad Bolling.\nAnother live action version of \"Beachworld\" from OneNinth &amp; Pointed Pictures premiered online in 2021 as part of the Stephen King Rules Dollar Baby Film Festival."}
{"id": "731739", "revid": "111996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731739", "title": "Icelandic Free State", "text": ""}
{"id": "731740", "revid": "13821153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731740", "title": "Probiotic", "text": "Probiotics are live microorganisms in that are intended to support or improve the health and wellbeing of a host organism. They are commonly used in both humans and animals. Although the term refers to the microorganisms themselves, probiotics can be consumed through a range of products including yogurt, cheese, certain fermented foods (such as natt\u014d), as well as capsules containing a single strain or a defined mixture of strains.\nProbiotics are regarded as generally recognised as safe (GRAS) by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which supports their safety when used as intended, although this designation does not establish their effectiveness or specific health benefits. Many claimed health benefits, such as treating eczema or curing vaginal infections, lack substantial scientific support.\nThe first discovered probiotic was a certain strain of bacillus in Bulgarian yoghurt, called \"Lactobacillus bulgaricus\". The discovery was made in 1905 by Bulgarian physician and microbiologist Stamen Grigorov. The modern-day theory is generally attributed to Russian Nobel Prize laureate \u00c9lie Metchnikoff, who postulated around 1907 that yoghurt-consuming Bulgarian peasants lived longer.\nA growing probiotics market has led to the need for stricter requirements for scientific substantiation of putative benefits conferred by microorganisms claimed to be probiotic. Although some evidence claimed benefits are marketed towards using probiotic, such as reducing gastrointestinal discomfort, improving immune health, relieving constipation, or avoiding the common cold, such claims are strain-specific and cannot be extrapolated to other strains. As of 2019, numerous applications for approval of health claims by European manufacturers of probiotic dietary supplements have been rejected by the European Food Safety Authority for insufficient evidence of beneficial mechanism or efficacy.\nDefinition.\nAn October 2001 report by the World Health Organization (WHO) defines probiotics as \"live microorganisms which when administered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit on the host.\" Following this definition, a working group convened by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)/WHO in May 2002 issued the \"Guidelines for the Evaluation of Probiotics in Food\". A consensus definition of the term \"probiotics\", based on available information and scientific evidence, was adopted after the aforementioned joint expert consultation between the FAO of the United Nations and the WHO. This effort was accompanied by local governmental and supra-governmental regulatory bodies' requirements to better characterize health claims substantiations.\nThat first global effort was further developed in 2010; two expert groups of academic scientists and industry representatives made recommendations for the evaluation and validation of probiotic health claims. The same principles emerged from those two groups as were expressed in the \"Guidelines\" of FAO/WHO in 2002. This definition, though widely adopted, is not acceptable to the European Food Safety Authority because it embeds a health claim that is not measurable.\nA group of scientific experts assembled in Canada in October 2013 to discuss the scope and appropriate use of the term \"probiotic\", adjusting the definition to be \"live microorganisms that, when administered in adequate amounts, confer a health benefit on the host.\"\nIn food.\nLive probiotic cultures are part of fermented dairy products, other fermented foods, and probiotic-fortified foods.\nLactic acid bacteria (LAB), which are food fermenting bacteria, have the ability to prevent food spoilage and can improve the nutritive value of the foods they inhabit. Acid fermentation (as well as salting), remains one of the most practical methods of preservation of fresh vegetables, cereal gruels, and milk-cereal mixtures due to its low cost and energy requirements.\nFermented products that contain lactic acid bacteria include vegetables such as pickled vegetables, kimchi, pao cai, and sauerkraut; sourdough bread or bread-like products made without wheat or rye flour, amino acid/peptide meat-flavored sauces and pastes produced by fermentation of cereals and legumes; fermented cereal-fish-shrimp mixtures and fermented meats; soy products such as tempeh, miso, and soy sauce; dairy products such as yogurt, kefir, buttermilk; and non-dairy products such as bee pollen.\nMore precisely, sauerkraut contains the bacteria \"Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactobacillus plantarum, Pediococcus pentosaceus, Lactobacillus brevis, Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc argentinum, Lactobacillus paraplantarum, Lactobacillus coryniformis\", and\" Weissella\" spp. Kimchi contains the bacteria \"Leuconostoc\" spp., \"Weissella\" spp., and\" Lactobacillus\" spp. Pao cai contains \"L. pentosus,\u2009L. plantarum\u2009, Leuconostoc mesenteroides\u2009, L. brevis, L. lactis\", and \"L. fermentum\".\nA list of many other bacteria found in several Asian fermented fruits and vegetables also is available. Kefir contains \"Lactobacillus acidophilus, Bifidobacterium bifidum, Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus delbrueckii\" subsp. \"bulgaricus, Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillus kefiranofaciens, Lactococcus lactis\", and \"Leuconostoc \"species. Buttermilk contains either \"Lactococcus lactis\" or \"L. bulgaricus\". Other acidic bacteria, said to be probiotic, can be found in kombucha, including \"Gluconacetobacter xylinus\",\" Zygosaccharomyces\" sp.,\" Acetobacter pasteurianus, Acetobacter aceti\", and \"Gluconobacter oxydans\".\nDosage.\nProbiotics are measured in colony forming units (CFU), which indicates the number of viable microorganisms in a product. The effective dose depends on the intended use with typical amounts ranging from 1 - 10 billion CFU/dose. It is important to note that products with higher CFU counts are not necessarily more effective than those with lower counts.\nSide effects.\nThe manipulation of the gut microbiota is complex and may cause bacteria-host interactions. Though probiotics are considered safe, some have concerns about their safety in certain cases. Some people, such as those with immunodeficiency, short bowel syndrome, central venous catheters, and cardiac valve disease, and premature infants, may be at higher risk for adverse events. In severely ill people with inflammatory bowel disease, a risk exists for the passage of viable bacteria from the gastrointestinal tract to the internal organs (bacterial translocation) as a consequence of bacteremia, which can cause adverse health consequences. Rarely, consumption of probiotics by children with lowered immune system function or who are already critically ill may result in bacteremia or fungemia (i.e., bacteria or fungi in the blood), which can lead to sepsis, a potentially fatal disease.\nProbiotic supplements typically contain between one and ten billion colony-forming units per dose. A higher number of CFUs does not provide additional probiotic effects, but may have unintended consequences of causing digestive discomfort, such as bloating, gas, and diarrhea.\n\"Lactobacillus\" species have been suggested to contribute to obesity in humans, but no evidence of this relationship has been found.\nConsumption.\nIn 2015, the global retail market value for probiotics was US$41 billion, including sales of probiotic supplements, fermented milk products, and yogurt, which alone accounted for 75% of total consumption. Innovation in probiotic products in 2015 was mainly from supplements, which produced US$4 billion and was projected to grow 37% globally by 2020. Consumption of yogurt products in China has increased by 20% per year since 2014.\nRegulation.\n, the European Food Safety Authority has rejected all petitions by commercial manufacturers for health claims on probiotic products in Europe due to insufficient evidence for a cause-and-effect mechanism for benefit, thus inconclusive proof of effectiveness. The European Commission placed a ban on putting the word \"probiotic\" on the packaging of products because such labeling misleads consumers to believe a health benefit is provided by the product when no scientific proof exists to demonstrate that health effect.\nFor food labeling in Canada, the federal government requires product labels using the term \"probiotic\" to have a government-approved health claim about the live specific microorganism(s) contained in the food.\nIn the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Federal Trade Commission (FTC) have issued warning letters and imposed punishment on various manufacturers of probiotic products whose labels claim to treat a disease or condition. Food product labeling requires language approved by the FDA, so probiotic manufacturers have received warning letters for making disease or treatment claims. The FTC has taken punitive actions, including a US$21 million fine coordinated by 39 different state governments against a major probiotic manufacturer for deceptive advertising and exaggerated claims of health benefits for yogurt and a probiotic dairy drink.\nIn Vietnam, the Vietnam Food Administration (VFA) under the Ministry of Health, in collaboration with other relevant authorities, oversees and addresses violations related to probiotic products. This includes issuing warnings, imposing administrative penalties, demanding product recalls and coordinating with other agencies.\nYogurt labeling.\nThe National Yogurt Association (NYA) of the United States gives a \"Live &amp; Active Cultures Seal\" to refrigerated yogurt products that contain 100 million cells per gram, or frozen yogurt products that contain 10 million cells per gram at the time of manufacture. In 2002, the FDA and WHO recommended that \"the minimum viable numbers of each probiotic strain at the end of the shelf-life\" be reported on labeling, but most companies that give a number report the viable cell count at the date of manufacture, a number that could be much higher than that which exists at consumption. Because of the variability in storage conditions and time before eating, exactly how many active culture cells remain at the time of consumption is difficult to determine. The survival of probiotics was strongly dependent on the storage temperature and remarkable viability loss occurred in room temperature compared to refrigerated storage.\nHistory.\nProbiotics have received renewed attention in the 21st century from product manufacturers, research studies, and consumers. The history of probiotics dates back to ancient times, with the consumption of fermented foods being a common practice across various civilizations. Different types of fermented milk products were invented in different generations, such as Kefir in 5000 BC and Yeast usage in 5000 BC. Their history can be traced to the first use of cheese and fermented products, which were well-known to the Greeks and Romans who recommended their consumption. The fermentation of dairy foods represents one of the oldest techniques for food preservation.\nThe original modern hypothesis of the positive role played by certain bacteria was first introduced by Russian scientist and Nobel Prize laureate \u00c9lie Metchnikoff, who in 1907 suggested that it would be possible to modify the gut microbiota and to replace harmful microbes with useful microbes. Metchnikoff proposed that consumption of fermented milk would \"seed\" the intestine with harmless lactic-acid bacteria and decrease the intestinal pH, and that this would suppress the growth of proteolytic bacteria.\nBifidobacteria was first isolated from a breastfed infant by Henry Tissier, who also worked at the Pasteur Institute. The isolated bacterium named \"Bacillus bifidus communis\" was later renamed to the genus \"Bifidobacterium\". Tissier found that bifidobacteria are dominant in the gut microbiota of breast-fed babies and he observed clinical benefits from treating infant diarrhea with bifidobacteria.\nDuring an outbreak of shigellosis in 1917, German professor Alfred Nissle isolated a strain of \"Escherichia coli\" from the feces of a soldier who was not affected by the disease. Methods of treating infectious diseases were needed at that time when antibiotics were not yet available, and Nissle used the \"E. coli\" Nissle 1917 strain in acute gastrointestinal infectious salmonellosis and shigellosis.\nIn 1920, Rettger and Cheplin reported that Metchnikoff's \"Bulgarian Bacillus\", later called \"Lactobacillus delbrueckii \"subsp.\" bulgaricus\", could not live in the human intestine. They conducted experiments involving rats and humans volunteers, feeding them with \"Lactobacillus acidophilus\". They observed the disappearance of the pathogenic protist Balantidium coli as well as of other gas-producing bacteria. Rettger further explored the possibilities of \"L. acidophilus\", and reasoned that bacteria originating from the gut were more likely to produce the desired effect in this environment. In 1935, certain strains of \"L. acidophilus\" were found very active when implanted in the human digestive tract.\nContrasting antibiotics, probiotics were defined as microbially derived factors that stimulate the growth of other microorganisms. In 1989, Roy Fuller suggested a definition of probiotics that have been widely used: \"A live microbial feed supplement which beneficially affects the host animal by improving its intestinal microbial balance.\" Fuller's definition emphasizes the requirement of viability for probiotics and introduces the aspect of a beneficial effect on the host.\nThe term \"probiotic\" originally referred to microorganisms that have effects on other microorganisms. The concept of probiotics involved the notion that substances secreted by one microorganism stimulated the growth of another microorganism. The term was used again to describe tissue extracts that stimulated microbial growth. The term probiotics was taken up by Parker, who defined the concept as, \"Organisms and substances that have a beneficial effect on the host animal by contributing to its intestinal microbial balance.\" Later, the definition was improved by Fuller, whose explanation was similar to the Fuller description of probiotics as a \"live microbial feed supplement which beneficially affects the host animal by improving its intestinal microbial balance.\" He stressed two important claims for probiotics: the viable nature of probiotics and the capacity to help with intestinal balance.\nIn the following decades, intestinal lactic-acid bacterial species with alleged health-beneficial properties were introduced as probiotics, including \"Lactobacillus rhamnosus\", \"Lactobacillus casei\", and \"Lactobacillus johnsonii\".\nEtymology.\nSome literature gives the word a Greek etymology, but it appears to be a composite of the Latin preposition \"pro\", meaning 'for', and the Greek adjective \u03b2\u03b9\u03c9\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c2 (\"bi\u014dtikos\"), meaning 'fit for life, lively', the latter deriving from the noun \u03b2\u03af\u03bf\u03c2 (\"bios\"), meaning 'life'.\nResearch.\nAs food products or dietary supplements, probiotics are under preliminary research to evaluate if they provide any effect on health. In all cases proposed as health claims to the European Food Safety Authority, the scientific evidence remains insufficient to prove a cause-and-effect relationship between consumption of probiotic products and any health benefit. There is no scientific basis for extrapolating an effect from a tested strain to an untested strain. Improved health through gut flora modulation appears to be directly related to long-term dietary changes. Claims that some lactobacilli may contribute to weight gain in some humans remain controversial.\nAcute otitis media.\nThere is inconsistency in the results of different groups of 3488 children as reported in a Cochrane review. Also, it shows no significant difference regarding the adverse effects between probiotic and the other comparators.\nAllergies.\nOnly limited, low-quality evidence exists to indicate that probiotics are helpful for treating people with milk allergy. A 2015 review showed low-quality evidence that probiotics given directly to infants with eczema, or in infants whose mothers used probiotics during the last trimester of pregnancy and breastfeeding, had lower risk of eczema.\nAsthma.\nIt is unclear whether probiotic supplementation helps with childhood asthma, as the quality of research evidence is low.\nAntibiotic-associated diarrhea.\nAntibiotics are a common treatment for children, with 11% to 40% of antibiotic-treated children developing diarrhea. Antibiotic-associated diarrhea (AAD) results from an imbalance in the colonic microbiota caused by antibiotic therapy. These microbial community alterations result in changes in carbohydrate metabolism, with decreased short-chain fatty acid absorption and osmotic diarrhea as a result. A 2015 Cochrane review concluded that a protective effect of some probiotics existed for AAD in children. The known risks of using probiotics for treating \"Clostridioides difficile\" outweigh the uncertain benefits.\nProbiotic treatment might reduce the incidence and severity of AAD as indicated in several meta-analyses. For example, treatment with probiotic formulations including \"L. rhamnosus\" may reduce the risk of AAD, improve stool consistency during antibiotic therapy, and enhance the immune response after vaccination.\nThe potential efficacy of probiotics to treat AAD depends on the probiotic strains and dosage. One review recommended for children \"L. rhamnosus\" or \"Saccharomyces boulardii\" at 5 to 40 billion colony-forming units/day, given the modest number needed to treat and the likelihood that adverse events are very rare. The same review stated that probiotic use should be avoided in pediatric populations at risk for adverse events, such as severely debilitated or immune-compromised children.\nBacterial vaginosis.\nProbiotic treatment of bacterial vaginosis is the application or ingestion of bacterial species found in the healthy vagina to cure the infection of bacteria causing bacterial vaginosis. This treatment is based on the observation that 70% of healthy females have a group of bacteria in the genus \"Lactobacillus\" that dominate the population of organisms in the vagina. Specific strains of lactobacilli inhibit the growth of bacteria causing BV by producing H2O2, lactic acid, and/or bacteriocins, and/or inhibit the adherence of \"Gardnerella vaginalis\" to the vaginal epithelium, which prevents the infection from occurring in the vagina. Currently, the success of probiotic treatment has been mixed, since the use of probiotics to restore healthy populations of \"Lactobacillus\" has not been standardized. Often, standard antibiotic treatment is used at the same time that probiotics are being tested. In addition, some groups of women respond to treatment based upon ethnicity, age, number of sexual partners, pregnancy, and the pathogens causing bacterial vaginosis. In 2013, researchers found that administration of hydrogen peroxide-producing strains, such as \"L. acidophilus\" and \"L. rhamnosus\", were able to normalize vaginal pH and rebalance the vaginal microbiota, preventing and alleviating bacterial vaginosis.\nBlood pressure.\n, only limited evidence indicated any direct link between high blood pressure and gut microbiota.\nCholesterol.\nA 2002 meta-analysis that included five double-blind trials examining the short-term (2\u20138 weeks) effects of a yogurt with probiotic strains on serum cholesterol levels found little effect of 8.5\u00a0mg/dL (0.22\u00a0mmol/L) (4% decrease) in total cholesterol concentration, and a decrease of 7.7\u00a0mg/dL (0.2\u00a0mmol/L) (5% decrease) in serum LDL concentration.\nDepression and anxiety.\nA 2019 meta-analysis found low-quality evidence for probiotics having a small improvement in depression and anxiety. A 2020 review found probiotics might improve depression, but more studies are needed.\nDiarrhea.\nSome probiotics are suggested as a possible treatment for various forms of gastroenteritis. As a treatment for infectious diarrhea, probiotics are of no benefit to people who have the condition for more than two days, and there is no evidence they lessen the duration of diarrhea overall.\nDermatitis.\nProbiotics are commonly given to breastfeeding mothers and their young children to prevent eczema (dermatitis), but no good evidence shows efficacy for this purpose. There is little evidence to support the use of probiotics to treat atopic dermatitis, and some risk of adverse effects. The American Academy of Dermatology stated: \"The use of probiotics/prebiotics for the treatment of patients with established atopic dermatitis is not recommended due to inconsistent evidence\".\nAcne.\nA review of probiotics and synbiotics in acne indicate that several preparations for reducing inflammatory acne lesions are under preliminary research, showing potential to reduce acne lesions, improve skin barrier function, and decrease inflammatory markers.\nGlycemic control.\nAccording to an umbrella review of meta-analyses of randomized controlled trials, probiotics supplementation reduces glucose homeostasis. This can be an effective therapy for lowering high blood sugar levels unless the body becomes hypoglycemic; caution and glucose monitoring are necessary to avoid this.\n\"Helicobacter pylori\".\nSome strains of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) may affect \"Helicobacter pylori\" infections (which may cause peptic ulcers) in adults when used in combination with standard medical treatments, but no standard in medical practice or regulatory approval exists for such treatment. The only peer-reviewed treatments for \"H. pylori\" to date all include various Antibiotic Regimens.\nImmune function and infections.\nSome strains of LAB may affect pathogens by means of competitive inhibition (i.e., by competing for growth) and some evidence suggests they may improve immune function by increasing the number of IgA-producing plasma cells and increasing or improving phagocytosis, as well as increasing the proportion of T lymphocytes and natural killer cells. LAB products might aid in the treatment of acute diarrhea and possibly affect rotavirus infections in children and travelers' diarrhea in adults, but no products are approved for such indications. There are weak evidence probiotics might lower the incidence of acute upper respiratory tract infections in adults, they were better than placebo or no treatment.\nProbiotics do not appear to change the risk of infection in older people.\nInflammatory bowel disease.\nThe use of oral probiotic supplements to modify the composition and behavior of the microbiome has been considered as a possible therapy for both induction and maintenance of remission in people with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. A Cochrane review in 2020 did not find clear evidence of improved remission likelihood, nor lower adverse events, in people with Crohn's disease, following probiotic treatment.\nFor ulcerative colitis, there is low-certainty evidence that probiotic supplements may increase the probability of clinical remission. People receiving probiotics were 73% more likely to experience disease remission and over 2x as likely to report improvement in symptoms compared to those receiving a placebo, with no clear difference in minor or serious adverse effects. Although there was no clear evidence of greater remission when probiotic supplements were compared with 5\u2010aminosalicylic acid treatment as a monotherapy, the likelihood of remission was 22% higher if probiotics were used in combination with 5-aminosalicylic acid therapy. Whereas in people who are already in remission, it is unclear whether probiotics help to prevent future relapse, either as a monotherapy or combination therapy.\nIrritable bowel syndrome.\nProbiotics are under study for their potential to affect irritable bowel syndrome, although uncertainty remains around which type of probiotic works best, and around the size of possible effect.\nNecrotizing enterocolitis.\nSeveral clinical studies provide evidence for the potential of probiotics to lower the risk of necrotizing enterocolitis and mortality in premature infants. One meta-analysis indicated that probiotics reduce these risks by more than 50% compared with controls but that further, large, high-quality trials were needed to inform policy and practice.\nPregnancy.\nA Cochrane systematic review found no good evidence that probiotics were of benefit in reducing the risk of gestational diabetes, but good evidence that they increased the risk of pre-eclampsia. For this reason, the use of probiotics in pregnancy was advised against.\nRecurrent abdominal pain.\nA 2017 review based on moderate to low-quality evidence suggests that probiotics may be helpful in relieving pain in the short term in children with recurrent abdominal pain, but the proper strain and dosage are not known.\nDry eye.\nA clinical study investigating the impact of probiotics in relieving the signs and symptoms of dry eye revealed promising results for the ophthalmic formulation of Latilactobacillus sakei, while the oral probiotic demonstrated no discernible benefits.\nUrinary tract.\nThere is limited evidence indicating probiotics are of benefit in the management of infection or inflammation of the urinary tract. One literature review found \"Lactobacillus\" probiotic supplements appeared to increase vaginal lactobacilli levels, thus reducing the incidence of vaginal infections in otherwise healthy adult women.\nGeneral research.\nFormulations.\nSupplements such as tablets, capsules, powders, and sachets containing bacteria have been studied. However, probiotics taken orally can be destroyed by the acidic conditions of the stomach. As of 2010, a number of microencapsulation techniques were being developed to address this problem.\nMultiple probiotics.\nPreliminary research is evaluating the potential physiological effects of multiple probiotic strains, as opposed to a single strain. As the human gut may contain tens of thousands of microbial species, one theory indicates that this diverse environment may benefit from consuming multiple probiotic strains, an effect that remains scientifically unconfirmed.\nStrains.\nOnly preliminary evidence exists for most probiotic health claims. Even for the most studied probiotic strains, few have been sufficiently developed in basic and clinical research to warrant approval for health claim status by a regulatory agency such as the FDA or EFSA, and , no claims had been approved by those two agencies. Some experts are skeptical about the efficacy of different probiotic strains and believe that not all subjects benefit from probiotics.\nStorage temperature.\nMultiple studies have shown that there is a significant difference in the survival rate of Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium under refrigerated (4\u00a0\u00b0C) and room temperature (25\u00a0\u00b0C) storage conditions. At room temperature (25\u00b11\u00a0\u00b0C), the number of\u00a0 probiotics decreased by 5 to 6 logarithmic units (down to 1/100,000) after 90 days of storage. In contrast, no significant change in the number of probiotics was observed under refrigerated conditions (4 \u00b1 1\u00a0\u00b0C).\nScientific guidelines for testing.\nFirst, probiotics must be alive when administered. One of the concerns throughout the scientific literature resides in the viability and reproducibility on a large scale of observed results for specific studies, as well as the viability and stability during use and storage, and finally the ability to survive in stomach acids and then in the intestinal ecosystem.\nSecond, probiotics must have undergone controlled evaluation to document \"health benefits\" in the target host. Only products that contain live organisms shown in reproducible human studies to confer a health benefit may claim to be probiotic. The correct definition of health benefit, backed with solid scientific evidence, is a strong element for the proper identification and assessment of the effect of a probiotic. This aspect is a challenge for scientific and industrial investigations because several difficulties arise, such as variability in the site for probiotic use (oral, vaginal, intestinal) and mode of application.\nThird, the probiotic candidate must be a taxonomically defined microbe or combination of microbes (genus, species, and strain level). It is commonly admitted that most effects of probiotics are strain-specific and cannot be extended to other probiotics of the same genus or species. This calls for precise identification of the strain, i.e. genotypic and phenotypic characterization of the tested microorganism.\nFourth, probiotics must be safe for their intended use. The 2002 FAO/WHO guidelines recommend that, though bacteria may be generally recognized as safe (GRAS), the safety of the potential probiotic be assessed by the \"minimum\" required tests:\nIn Europe, EFSA adopted a premarket system for the safety assessment of microbial species used in food and feed productions to set priorities for the need for risk assessment. The assessment is made for certain microorganisms; if the result is favorable, it leads to \"Qualified Presumption of Safety\" status."}
{"id": "731742", "revid": "67393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731742", "title": "Internet 2", "text": ""}
{"id": "731743", "revid": "49402000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731743", "title": "Charles Simonyi", "text": "Charles Simonyi (; , ; born September 10, 1948) is a Hungarian-American software architect, businessman, and space tourist. He led the development of Microsoft's first application software, including early versions of Microsoft Office, and later co-founded Intentional Software, a company focused on his concept of intentional programming. A former researcher at Xerox PARC, he helped pioneer graphical user interfaces and introduced object-oriented programming and Hungarian notation to Microsoft. Simonyi flew to space twice as a private citizen, becoming the fifth space tourist and the only one to pay for two separate trips to the International Space Station. As of January 2025, his net worth was estimated at US$7.5 billion. \nBiography.\nEarly life.\nSimonyi was born in Budapest, Hungary. His father, K\u00e1roly Simonyi, was a Kossuth Prize-winning professor of electrical engineering at the Technical University of Budapest, and created the first Hungarian nuclear particle accelerator. While in secondary school he worked part-time as a night watchman at a computer laboratory in the early 1960s, overseeing a large Soviet Ural II mainframe. He took an interest in computing and learned to program from one of the laboratory's engineers. By the time he left school, he had learned to develop compilers and sold one of these to a government department. He presented a demonstration of his compiler to the members of a Danish computer trade delegation. In 2006 he said that when he was young his dream was, \"to get out of Hungary, go to the West and be free.\"\nCareer.\nAt the age of 17, Simonyi left Hungary on a short-term visa but did not return. He was hired by Denmark's A/S Regnecentralen in 1966 where he worked with Per Brinch Hansen and Peter Kraft on the RC 4000 minicomputer's Real-time Control System, and with Peter Naur on the GIER ALGOL compiler.\nHe subsequently moved from Denmark to the United States in 1968 to attend the University of California, Berkeley, where he earned his BS in Engineering Mathematics &amp; Statistics in 1972 under Butler Lampson. He has honorary doctorate degrees from the Juilliard School in New York and from the University of P\u00e9cs in Hungary.\nSimonyi was recruited to Xerox PARC by Butler Lampson during its most productive period, working alongside Lampson, Alan Kay and Robert Metcalfe on the development of the \"Xerox Alto\", one of the first personal computers. He and Lampson developed \"Bravo\", the first WYSIWYG document preparation program, which became operational in 1974. During this time he received his PhD in computer science from Stanford University in 1977 with a dissertation on a software project management technique he called meta-programming. This approach sought to defeat Brooks' law by scaling programming through a formalization of communication among programmers. In the 1992 book \"Accidental Empires\" (), Robert X. Cringely gave this description:\nSimonyi's dissertation was an attempt to describe a more efficient method of organizing programmers to write software... the metaprogrammer was the designer, decision maker, and communication controller in a software development group... individual programmers were allowed to make no design decisions about the project. All they did was write the code as described by the metaprogrammer... A programmer with a problem or a question would take it to the metaprogrammer, who could come up with an answer or transfer the question to another programmer...\nSimonyi remained at PARC until 1981.\nIn 1997, Simonyi was elected a member of the National Academy of Engineering for developing widely used desktop productivity software. He also became a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2008. Since 1998 Simonyi has served as member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and was its Chairman in 2008. Simonyi received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement in 2000.\nMicrosoft.\nIn 1981, at Metcalfe's suggestion, he visited Bill Gates at Microsoft who suggested Simonyi start an applications group at Microsoft with the first application being a WYSIWYG word processor. At Microsoft, Simonyi built the organization and applications of what became its most profitable products, Word and Excel, as well as Excel's predecessor Multiplan. For the applications, Simonyi pursued a strategy called the \"revenue bomb\", whereby the product ran on a virtual machine that was ported to each platform. The resulting applications were highly portable, although Microsoft's focus and IBM's standardization on MS-DOS eventually made portability less important. \nIn a 2002 news item, \"The Age\" noted that Simonyi introduced the concept of metaprogramming at Microsoft, turning it into what people sometimes referred to as a software factory, but the metaprogramming concept \"did not work out in practice.\"\nSimonyi introduced to Microsoft the techniques of object-oriented programming that he had learned at Xerox. He developed the Hungarian notation convention for naming variables. These standards were originally part of his doctoral thesis. The Hungarian notation has been widely used inside Microsoft.\nIntentional Software.\nSimonyi remained at Microsoft during its rapid rise in the software industry, becoming one of its highest-ranking developers. He left Microsoft in 2002 to co-found, with business partner Gregor Kiczales, a company called Intentional Software. This company markets the intentional programming concepts Simonyi developed at Microsoft Research. In this approach to software, a programmer first builds a language environment specific to a given problem domain (such as life insurance). Domain experts, aided by the programmer, then describe the program's intended behavior in a What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG)-like manner. An automated system uses the program description and the language to generate the final program. Successive changes are only done at the WYSIWYG level.\nIn 2004, Simonyi received the Wharton Infosys Business Transformation Award for the industry-wide impact of his innovative work in information technology.\nOn April 18, 2017, Intentional Software was acquired by Microsoft.\nPatents.\nSimonyi holds 11 patents (Espacenet):\n,\n,\n,\n,\n, and\nPhilanthropy.\nSimonyi has been an active philanthropist.\nHe has funded the establishment of three professorships:\nIn 2003 he founded the Charles and Lisa Simonyi Fund for Arts and Sciences, a nonprofit organization based in Seattle. The foundation provides grants to outstanding organization in art, sciences and education. Grant recipients have included the Seattle Symphony ($10 million), and the Seattle Public Library ($3 million), the Metropolitan Opera, the Juilliard School and the Vera C. Rubin Observatory, which host the Simonyi Survey Telescope. The $100 million foundation closed in 2013.\nIn February 2017, Simonyi and his wife Lisa gave the University of Washington Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) department $5 million towards the completion of a new building.\nPolitical activity.\nSimonyi was one of few notable early supporters of Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign when he made the maximum primary donation of $2,700 in 2015. Simonyi went on to contribute $200,000 to Donald Trump's 2020 presidential campaign.\nOpenSecrets shows Simonyi has contributed to numerous Republican candidates, the Republican National Committee, and several state Republican committees.\nPersonal life.\nSimonyi became a United States citizen in 1982. He was in a long-term relationship with businesswoman Martha Stewart, which lasted 15 years and ended in 2008. Later that year, on November 22, he married Lisa Persdotter, the daughter of a Swedish businessman, in a private ceremony in Gothenburg, Sweden, attended by close friends including Bill Gates. The couple has two daughters.\nSimonyi resides in Medina, Washington, in a modern home known as Villa Simonyi, designed by architect Wendell Lovett and featuring a collection of works by Roy Lichtenstein and Victor Vasarely. He formerly spent part of each year aboard his 233-foot (71 m) yacht \"Skat\", which he sold in 2021. As of 2023, he owns a 295-foot (90 m) yacht named \"NORN\", designed by Espen Oeino and registered in the Cayman Islands.\nSpaceflights.\nIn early 2006, Simonyi expressed interest in becoming a space tourist and signed agreements with the space tourism company, Space Adventures, Ltd., for a ten-day mission to the International Space Station (ISS).\nIn August 2006, he passed a pre-qualification medical exam by the Russian Federal Space Agency, called the State Medical Commission (GMK). He started training at Star City in September 2006.\nHe launched on April 7, 2007 (GMT), on board Soyuz TMA-10. He shared a ride with two Russian cosmonauts to the International Space Station, and returned aboard Soyuz TMA-9, landing on April 21, 2007.\nUpon arrival to the ISS on April 9, 2007, Simonyi said, \"It is amazing how it appears from the blackness of the sky. It was very, very dramatic. It was like a big stage set, a fantastic production of some incredible opera or modern play. That's what I was referring to when I said I was blown away.\"\nSimonyi's expected return on April 20, 2007, was delayed by one day due to 'boggy ground'. He returned to Earth on April 21, 2007 along with an American astronaut and a Russian cosmonaut.\nIn October 2008, he booked for a second trip to the ISS through Space Adventures on board Soyuz TMA-14. On March 26, 2009 he returned to space aboard Soyuz TMA-14. He returned to Earth on board Soyuz TMA-13. Along with Soyuz Commander Yuri Lonchakov and Michael Fincke, Simonyi landed in Kazakhstan on April 8, 2009.\nSimonyi became the second Hungarian astronaut, the fifth space tourist, and the only one in history who went twice to space as a space tourist who paid his own way on spaceflights. Earlier, the Hungarians were the seventh nation to be represented in space, in 1980, by Bertalan Farkas's spaceflight, 27 years before Simonyi's first one, in 2007. The next Hungarian astronaut followed Simonyi to the International Space Station in 2025.\nRadio communication while aboard ISS.\nCharles Simonyi is a licensed amateur radio operator with the call sign KE7KDP, and planned to contact a number of schools while on his flight on the International Space Station using amateur radio for the communication with those schools. On April 11, 2007 the American Radio Relay League reported that Simonyi was already making ham radio contacts from space.\nOne of the schools Simonyi contacted was Cedar Point Elementary in Bristow, Virginia. A telebridge conversation was held on Tuesday, April 17, 2007. On board with him were Oleg Kotov and Fyodor Yurchikhin. On March 30, 2009 he held a phone conversation with students at The Girls' Middle School in Mountain View, California, United States in which he said that one of the most surprising things about traveling to space was that upon returning to Earth the air feels very thick, very heavy, like \"breathing Pepto-Bismol.\" He also stated that talking with the students from the school \"made his day.\"\nSimonyi used his Hungarian call sign HA5SIK when he contacted 25 radio amateurs from Hungary in a record attempt on April 12. He contacted former and current students of Tivadar Pusk\u00e1s Polytechnic, Budapest on April 13.\nSimonyi supports The Museum of Flight in Seattle, funding the Space Gallery housing the NASA Shuttle Trainer and many space artifacts.\nIn popular culture.\nSimonyi was portrayed by actor Brian Lester in the TV film \"Pirates of Silicon Valley\"."}
{"id": "731746", "revid": "51686151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731746", "title": "Nandrolone", "text": "Nandrolone, also known as 19-nortestosterone, is an endogenous androgen. It is also an anabolic steroid (AAS) which is medically used in the form of esters such as nandrolone decanoate (brand name Deca-Durabolin) and nandrolone phenylpropionate (brand name Durabolin). Nandrolone esters are used in the treatment of anemias, cachexia (muscle wasting syndrome), osteoporosis, breast cancer, and for other indications. They are now used by oral administration or instead are given by injection into muscle or fat.\nSide effects of nandrolone esters include symptoms of masculinization like acne, increased hair growth, and voice changes. They are synthetic androgens and anabolic steroids and hence are agonists of the androgen receptor (AR), the biological target of androgens like testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Nandrolone has strong anabolic effects and weak androgenic effects, which give them a mild side effect profile and make them especially suitable for use in women and children. There are metabolites of Nandrolone that act as long-lasting prodrugs in the body, such as 5\u03b1-Dihydronandrolone.\nNandrolone esters were first described and introduced for medical use in the late 1950s. They are among the most widely used anabolic steroid worldwide. In addition to their medical use, nandrolone esters are used to improve physique and performance, and are said to be the most widely used anabolic steroid for such purposes. The drugs are controlled substances in many countries and so non-medical use is generally illicit.\nMedical uses.\nNandrolone esters are used clinically, although increasingly rarely, for people in catabolic states with major burns, cancer, and AIDS, and an ophthalmological formulation was available to support cornea healing.\nThe positive effects of nandrolone esters include muscle growth, appetite stimulation and increased red blood cell production, and bone density. Clinical studies have shown them to be effective in treating anemia, osteoporosis, and breast cancer.\nNandrolone sulfate has been used in an eye drop formulation as an ophthalmic medication.\nNon-medical uses.\nNandrolone esters are used for physique- and performance-enhancing purposes by competitive athletes, bodybuilders, and powerlifters.\nSide effects.\nSide effects of nandrolone esters include masculinization among others. In women, nandrolone and nandrolone esters have been reported to produce increased libido, acne, facial and body hair growth, voice changes, and clitoral enlargement. However, the masculinizing effects of nandrolone and its esters are reported to be slighter than those of testosterone. Nandrolone has also been found to produce penile growth in prepubertal boys. Amenorrhea and menorrhagia have been reported as side effects of nandrolone cypionate.\nSide effects of high doses of nandrolone may include cardiovascular toxicity as well as hypogonadism and infertility. Nandrolone may not produce scalp hair loss, although this is also theoretical.\nPharmacology.\nPharmacodynamics.\nNandrolone is an agonist of the AR, the biological target of androgens like testosterone and . Unlike testosterone and certain other anabolic steroids, nandrolone is not potentiated in androgenic tissues like the scalp, skin, and prostate, hence deleterious effects in these tissues are lessened. This is because nandrolone is metabolized by 5\u03b1-reductase to the much weaker AR ligand 5\u03b1-dihydronandrolone (DHN), which has both reduced affinity for the androgen receptor (AR) relative to nandrolone \"in vitro\" and weaker AR agonistic potency \"in vivo\". The lack of alkylation on the 17\u03b1-carbon drastically reduces the hepatotoxic potential of nandrolone. Estrogen effects resulting from reaction with aromatase are also reduced due to lessened enzyme interaction, but effects such as gynecomastia and reduced libido may still occur at sufficiently high doses.\nIn addition to its AR agonistic activity, unlike many other anabolic steroids, nandrolone is also a potent progestogen. It binds to the progesterone receptor with approximately 22% of the affinity of progesterone. The progestogenic activity of nandrolone serves to augment its antigonadotropic effects, as antigonadotropic action is a known property of progestogens.\nAnabolic and androgenic activity.\nNandrolone has a very high ratio of anabolic to androgenic activity. In fact, many nandrolone-like anabolic steroids and even nandrolone itself are said to have among the highest ratio of anabolic to androgenic effects of all anabolic steroids. This is attributed to the fact that whereas testosterone is potentiated via conversion into dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in androgenic tissues, the opposite is true with nandrolone and similar anabolic steroids (i.e., other 19-nortestosterone derivatives). As such, nandrolone-like anabolic steroids, namely nandrolone esters, are the most frequently used anabolic steroids in clinical settings in which anabolic effects are desired; for instance, in the treatment of AIDS-associated cachexia, severe burns, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. However, anabolic steroids with a very high ratio of anabolic to androgenic action like nandrolone still have significant androgenic effects and can produce symptoms of masculinization like hirsutism and voice deepening in women and children with extended use.\nPharmacokinetics.\nThe oral activity of nandrolone has been studied. With oral administration of nandrolone in rodents, it had about one-tenth of the potency of subcutaneous injection of nandrolone.\nNandrolone has very low affinity for human serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), about 5% of that of testosterone and 1% of that of DHT. It is metabolized by the enzyme 5\u03b1-reductase, among others. Nandrolone is less susceptible to metabolism by 5\u03b1-reductase and 17\u03b2-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase than testosterone. This results in it being transformed less in so-called \"androgenic\" tissues like the skin, hair follicles, and prostate gland and in the kidneys, respectively. Metabolites of nandrolone include 5\u03b1-dihydronandrolone, 19-norandrosterone, and 19-noretiocholanolone, and these metabolites may be detected in urine.\nSingle intramuscular injections of 100\u00a0mg nandrolone phenylpropionate or nandrolone decanoate have been found to produce an anabolic effect for 10 to 14\u00a0days and 20 to 25\u00a0days, respectively. Conversely, unesterified nandrolone has been used by intramuscular injection once daily.\nChemistry.\nNandrolone, also known as 19-nortestosterone (19-NT) or as estrenolone, as well as estra-4-en-17\u03b2-ol-3-one or 19-norandrost-4-en-17\u03b2-ol-3-one, is a naturally occurring estrane (19-norandrostane) steroid and a derivative of testosterone (androst-4-en-17\u03b2-ol-3-one). It is specifically the C19 demethylated (nor) analogue of testosterone. Nandrolone is an endogenous intermediate in the production of estradiol from testosterone via aromatase in mammals including humans and is present in the body naturally in trace amounts. It can be detected during pregnancy in women. Nandrolone esters have an ester such as decanoate or phenylpropionate attached at the C17\u03b2 position.\nDerivatives.\nEsters.\nA variety of esters of nandrolone have been marketed and used medically. The most commonly used esters are nandrolone decanoate and to a lesser extent nandrolone phenylpropionate. Examples of other nandrolone esters that have been marketed and used medically include nandrolone cyclohexylpropionate, nandrolone cypionate, nandrolone hexyloxyphenylpropionate, nandrolone laurate, nandrolone sulfate, and nandrolone undecanoate.\nAnabolic steroids.\nNandrolone is the parent compound of a large group of anabolic steroids. Notable examples include the non-17\u03b1-alkylated trenbolone and the 17\u03b1-alkylated ethylestrenol (ethylnandrol) and metribolone (R-1881), as well as the 17\u03b1-alkylated designer steroids norboletone and tetrahydrogestrinone (THG). The following is list of derivatives of nandrolone that have been developed as anabolic steroids:\nProgestins.\nNandrolone, together with ethisterone (17\u03b1-ethynyltestosterone), is also the parent compound of a large group of progestins, the norethisterone (17\u03b1-ethynyl-19-nortestosterone) derivatives. This family is subdivided into two groups: the estranes and the gonanes. The estranes include norethisterone (norethindrone), norethisterone acetate, norethisterone enanthate, lynestrenol, etynodiol diacetate, and noretynodrel, while the gonanes include norgestrel, levonorgestrel, desogestrel, etonogestrel, gestodene, norgestimate, dienogest (actually a 17\u03b1-cyanomethyl-19-nortestosterone derivative), and norelgestromin.\nSynthesis.\nThe elaboration of a method for the reduction of aromatic rings to the corresponding dihydrobenzenes under controlled conditions by A. J. Birch opened a convenient route to compounds related to the putative 19-norprogesterone.\nThis reaction, now known as the Birch reduction, is typified by the treatment of the monomethyl ether of estradiol (1) with a solution of lithium metal in liquid ammonia in the presence of alcohol as a proton source. Initial reaction constituents of 1,4-dimetalation of the most electron deficient positions of the aromatic ring\u2013in the case of an estrogen, the 1 and 4-positions. Rxn of the intermediate with the proton source leads to a dihydrobenzene; a special virtue of this sequence in steroids is the fact that the double bond at 2 is in effect becomes an enol ether moiety. Treatment of this product, 1,4-Dihydroestradiol 3-methyl ether [1091-93-6] (2), with weak acid, e.g. oxalic acid, leads to the hydrolysis of the enol ether, producing \u03b2,\u03b3-unconjugated ketone Prenortestosterone [1089-78-7] (3). Hydrolysis under more strenuous conditions (mineral acids) results in migration/conjugation of the olefin to yield nandrolone (4).\nThe Prenortestosterone [1089-78-7] is also of interest to us because it has use in the synthesis of Dienolone.\nBirch reduction of estrone methyl ether will work. Back-oxidation of the 17beta-hydroxy group will give Bolandione (cmp 14).\nReduction of the 3-keto group in nandrolone (lithium aluminium hydride was given in patent) will give bolandiol.\nDetection in body fluids.\nNandrolone use is directly detectable in hair or indirectly detectable in urine by testing for the presence of 19-norandrosterone, a metabolite. The International Olympic Committee has set a limit of 2.0 \u03bcg/L of 19-norandrosterone in urine as the upper limit, beyond which an athlete is suspected of doping. In the largest nandrolone study performed on 621 athletes at the 1998 Nagano Olympic Games, no athlete tested over 0.4 \u03bcg/L. 19-Norandrosterone was identified as a trace contaminant in commercial preparations of androstenedione, which until 2004 was available without a prescription as a dietary supplement in the U.S.\nA number of nandrolone cases in athletics occurred in 1999, which included high-profile athletes such as Merlene Ottey, Dieter Baumann, and Linford Christie. However, the following year the detection method for nandrolone at the time was proved to be faulty. Mark Richardson, a British Olympic relay runner who tested positive for the substance, gave a significant amount of urine samples in a controlled environment and delivered a positive test for the drug, demonstrating that false positives could occur, which led to an overhaul of his competitive ban.\nHeavy consumption of the essential amino acid lysine (as indicated in the treatment of cold sores) has allegedly shown false positives in some and was cited by American shotputter C. J. Hunter as the reason for his positive test, though in 2004 he admitted to a federal grand jury that he had injected nandrolone. A possible cause of incorrect urine test results is the presence of metabolites from other anabolic steroids, though modern urinalysis can usually determine the exact anabolic steroid used by analyzing the ratio of the two remaining nandrolone metabolites. As a result of the numerous overturned verdicts, the testing procedure was reviewed by UK Sport. In October 2007, three-time Olympic gold medalist for track and field Marion Jones admitted to use of the drug, and was sentenced to six months in jail for lying to a federal grand jury in 2000.\nMass spectrometry is also used to detect small amounts of nandrolone in urine samples.\nHistory.\nNandrolone was first synthesized in 1950. It was first introduced, as nandrolone phenylpropionate, in 1959, and then as nandrolone decanoate in 1962, followed by additional esters.\nSociety and culture.\nGeneric names.\nNandrolone is the generic name of the drug and its , , , and . The formal generic names of nandrolone esters include nandrolone cyclohexylpropionate (), nandrolone cyclotate (), nandrolone decanoate (, , , ), nandrolone laurate (), nandrolone phenpropionate (), and nandrolone phenylpropionate (, ).\nDoping in sports.\nNandrolone was probably among the first anabolic steroids to be used as a doping agent in sports in the 1960s. It has been banned at the Olympics since 1974. There are many known cases of doping in sports with nandrolone esters by professional athletes.\nResearch.\nNandrolone esters have been studied in several indications. They were intensively studied for osteoporosis, and increased calcium uptake and decreased bone loss, but caused virilization in about half of the women who took them and were mostly abandoned for this use when better drugs like the bisphosphonates became available. They have also been studied in clinical trials for chronic kidney failure, aplastic anemia, and as male contraceptives."}
{"id": "731747", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731747", "title": "Mawdryn Undead", "text": "Mawdryn Undead is the third serial of the 20th season of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". It was originally broadcast in four twice weekly parts on BBC1 from 1 to 9 February 1983.\nThe serial is set in an English boarding school and a spaceship above the Earth in 1977 and 1983. In the serial, the scientist Mawdryn (David Collings), whose people on board the ship have been afflicted by a mutation that constantly causes their bodies to renew themselves, seeks to die using the regenerative abilities of the alien time traveller the Fifth Doctor (Peter Davison) to stop this process and allow them to die.\n\"Mawdryn Undead\" is the first of three loosely connected serials in which the Black Guardian (Valentine Dyall) attempts to compel the alien Vislor Turlough (Mark Strickson) to kill the Doctor, and it introduces Turlough as a regular character. Nicholas Courtney is reintroduced as Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart, who was last seen in the series in the 1975 serial \"Terror of the Zygons\".\nPlot.\nIn 1983, Vislor Turlough, a stranded alien posing as a human student, is given an offer by the Black Guardian for passage off Earth if he should kill the Fifth Doctor.\nMeanwhile, the Doctor, Tegan and Nyssa find the TARDIS stuck in the warp ellipse of a starliner trapped in time. Materialising aboard, they find a transmat device with separate endpoints to Earth in 1977 and 1983 is creating the interference. Turlough arrives from the 1983 transmat, feigning lack of comprehension of the situation. The Doctor instructs Nyssa and Tegan to stay aboard the TARDIS while he returns with Turlough to 1983 to fix that transmat point, hoping it will allow the TARDIS to escape. Instead, the TARDIS materialises in 1977 at Turlough's school. Coincidentally the Doctor's old friend from UNIT, retired Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart, is now a maths teacher at the school and is surprised to learn some trauma in the past has made him lose the memories of the last few years; as a result, he does not remember the Doctor at all. However, as the Doctor talks about Tegan, about himself and his former companions, the Brigadier starts regaining some memories.\nIn 1977, Nyssa and Tegan leave the TARDIS and find a horribly disfigured man in the transmat capsule, who claims to be the Doctor in the midst of a regeneration. They seek out help from the younger Brigadier, and the \"Doctor\" urges all three to return with him to the starliner via the TARDIS. In 1983, the Doctor detects the TARDIS' movement, and he, Turlough, and the older Brigadier also return to the starliner via the transmat. The Doctor regroups with his companions; realising two versions of the Brigadier are aboard, he instructs them all to keep the two separated, as, should they touch, it could release a potentially catastrophic energy discharge due to the Blinovitch limitation effect.\nThe figure posing as the Doctor is forced to reveal himself as Mawdryn, one of several scientists aboard the liner who were trying to discover the Time Lord secret of regeneration. Their experiments failed, and he and his fellow scientists have become immortal in this painful state and seek to die, but the Doctor determines the only way to do so is to give up his remaining regenerations. He attempts to leave with his companions, but finds that Nyssa and Tegan suffer the same affliction as Mawdryn, ageing and de-ageing rapidly once in the Time Vortex, and quickly returns to the ship. The Doctor agrees to give up his regenerations and prepares to transfer this energy, with the Brigadier at the machine controls. Meanwhile, the Brigadier from 1977, having been left alone, bursts in upon them. The two Brigadiers reach out to touch, and the flash of energy occurs just at the right moment before the Doctor gives up his regenerations, ending Mawdryn's and his colleagues' lives as requested, restoring Nyssa and Tegan, and saving the Doctor. The younger Brigadier passes out from shock, and the Doctor suspects this was the trauma that caused him to lose his memory. The TARDIS crew return the Brigadiers to their proper times, and the Doctor accepts Turlough's request to join his crew, unaware of the Black Guardian's influence.\nProduction.\n\"Mawdryn Undead\" was a replacement for an earlier script, \"The Song of the Space Whale\", by Pat Mills. That script fell through when Mills and script editor Eric Saward could not agree on certain elements of the story. Instead, Peter Grimwade quickly produced \"Mawdryn Undead\" to fill the gap in the production schedule. \"The Song of the Space Whale\" was later renamed \"The Song of Megaptera\" and made into an audio drama by Big Finish Productions for their \"Doctor Who\" \"The Lost Stories\" range.\nCast notes.\nThe original intent of the production team was for the character of Ian Chesterton, one of the original regulars from the series' first two seasons from 1963 to 1965, to return for a guest appearance in this story; hence the school setting, as Chesterton was a science teacher, and the Brigadier's being issued with another TARDIS homing device. However, actor William Russell proved to be unavailable. Some consideration was given to using instead the character of Harry Sullivan, who was a regular in the programme for a season in the mid-1970s, before the return of Lethbridge-Stewart was eventually decided upon.\nDavid Collings, who played Mawdryn, also appeared in the Fourth Doctor serials \"Revenge of the Cybermen\" (1975) as Vorus and \"The Robots of Death\" (1977) as Poul, and would himself play an alternative Doctor in Big Finish Productions' \"Doctor Who Unbound\" audio play, \"Full Fathom Five\". Angus MacKay previously played Borusa in \"The Deadly Assassin\" (1976). John Nathan-Turner felt that Mark Strickson's blond hair didn't stand out well enough from Peter Davison's blond hair. He initially asked Strickson to shave his head, but when Strickson declined, Turner decided that Strickson's hair should be dyed red.\nBroadcast and reception.\nIn \"The Television Companion\" (1998), David J. Howe and Stephen James Walker described \"Mawdryn Undead\" as \"arguably one of the most ambitious stories that Doctor Who ever attempted,\" though it introduced the UNIT dating continuity error. They concluded, \"Despite the overloading of the scripts, the story does ultimately work and is never less than enjoyable. A tribute, perhaps, to Peter Grimwade's skills as a writer.\" Paul Cornell, Martin Day, and Keith Topping in \"The Discontinuity Guide\" (1995) wrote, \"It's nice to have an adventure where someone doesn't want to destroy the Universe or take over the Earth, although this does mean that the final episode is a bit dull.\" In 2012, Patrick Mulkern of \"Radio Times\" gave the story four out of five stars, describing Nicholas Courtney as \"pure gold.\" He was mixed on the makeup effects and called Strickson \"refreshing\" as Turlough. John Sinnott of DVD Talk called it \"a good story\" and good start to the Black Guardian trilogy. Reviewing the season as a whole, \"Starburst\" Paul Mount described \"Mawdryn Undead\" as \"a busy serial\" that \"offers an interesting take on the curse of immortality.\"\nCommercial releases.\nIn print.\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Peter Grimwade, was published by Target Books in August 1983.\nHome media.\n\"Mawdryn Undead\" was released on VHS in November 1992. It was released on DVD as part of the \"Black Guardian Trilogy\" on 10 August 2009 (Region 2), with a commentary by Peter Davison, Mark Strickson, Nicholas Courtney and Eric Saward and an option to view the story with new CGI effects. The serial was also released in issue 50 of the Doctor Who DVD Files, published 1 December 2010. In September 2023, the story was released again in an upgraded format for Blu-ray, being included with the other stories from Season 20 in the \"Doctor Who - The Collection Box Set\"."}
{"id": "731752", "revid": "44361418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731752", "title": "CFM International", "text": "CFM International is a Franco-American aircraft engine manufacturer. The company is a joint venture between GE Aerospace and Safran Aircraft Engines (formerly known as Snecma) and is headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. It was founded in 1974 to build and support the CFM56 series of turbofan engines. CFM is the world's largest commercial aircraft engine manufacturer, with a 39% market share . It has delivered more than 37,500 of its engines to more than 570 operators. The name \"CFM\" is derived from the two parent companies' commercial engine designations: GE's CF series and Snecma's M series.\nHistory.\nWhile General Electric's military engine business for fighter jets was undeniably booming, the American company's ambitions were struggling to materialise in the civil sector. It was not until the late 1950s that GE made its first foray into this market.\nOn the other side, Snecma has been thinking since the mid-1960s about the best strategy for approaching the civil market with a new engine offering major performance gains in terms of fuel consumption and noise reduction, characteristics increasingly sought after by aircraft manufacturers and airlines.\nIn 1969, General Electric and Snecma began working together for the first time. Together with the German company MTU (Motoren-und-Turbinen-Union), the two companies produced parts for the CF6-50 engine powering the Airbus A300.\nAt the same time, and since the mid-1960s, Snecma began conducting a series of thermodynamic, aerodynamic and acoustic studies to establish the main characteristics of the M56 engine. Several objectives were set: low noise level, minimal fuel consumption, reduced maintenance and overall operating costs.\nAt the same time, the French government drew up its sixth five-year plan, defining the country's economic and industrial objectives for the period 1971-1975. The objectives of the French Aerospace Industry Committee converged with those of Snecma. The company and the government were well aware that the successful development of a 10-ton civil jet engine required international cooperation, for three main reasons. First, although Snecma was capable of developing advanced technologies, it lacked experience, particularly in the development of high-pressure turbines. It didn\u2019t master the technology of variable stators, nor that of small fixed and mobile blades, required for the final high-load stages of the high-pressure compressor. Secondly, domestic sources of supply for high-temperature alloys and foundry and machining technologies for cooled high-pressure turbine blades were limited. Finally, as a specialist in military aircraft, Snecma had neither the sales organization nor the international presence needed to compete in the civil sector.\nIn 1971, Snecma was looking for a partner to develop, manufacture and sell the future CFM56 engine. The difficulties encountered by the Pratt &amp; Whitney and Rolls Royce development programs quickly left General Electric as the only viable partner. A delegation comprising Snecma Chairman Jacques-Edouard Lamy, Sales Director Jean Cr\u00e9pin and Technical Director Michel Garnier travelled to Lynn, Massachusetts, in April 1970 to meet GE representatives. Gerhard Neumann (head of GE's Aircraft Engine Business Group) understood the scope of this new strategic opportunity in Europe and agreed to a 50/50 partnership.\nCreating CFM International.\nOn January 24, 1974, as part of the development of the CFM56, Snecma and General Electric signed the final agreement governing the proposed joint venture. Although the company was already up and running, a number of legal and administrative formalities delayed its legal incorporation until September 1974. Named CFM International, this company under French law, with capital of 400,000 francs, created in equal shares by Snecma and General Electric, was responsible for managing the program and marketing the engines.\nCFM's first CEO, Jean Sollier, chaired a ten-member board of directors, five from GE and five from Snecma, including two vice-presidents, Neumann and Ravaud. The two companies share design, development and production equally. Final assembly, sales and services are handled by each partner using its own resources.\nThe logo concept proposed by Jean Sollier, a mix of Snecma's red rectangle and GE's blue circle, and the engine name, which combines GE's civil engine nomenclature (CF for Commercial Fan) and Snecma's project name (M56), clearly illustrate the two companies' desire to work together.\nInitial trials and certification.\nOn June 20, 1974, the demonstration engine for the CFM56 program ran for the first time at Evendale on a test bench belonging to General Electric. In the days that followed, and in less than ten hours of operation, it reached its full take-off thrust of 10 tonnes. In November of the same year, the CFM56 carried out its first trial on a test bench at Villaroche.\nBoeing was one of the first aircraft manufacturers to realise the full potential of the CFM56 engine. Boeing president Thornton Wilson contacted Neumann and Ravaud in 1977 with a proposal for an agreement to replace the engines of the 707 using the CFM56.\nOn March 17, 1977, flight testing of the CFM56 began on the Caravelle flying testbench. The first flight took place at M\u00e9rignac, near Bordeaux. It lasted just over three hours and was designed to assess the performance of the engine and nacelle. In January 1979, ground and flight tests reached a total of more than 4,000 hours.\nFive years after the creation of the company, and eight years after the start of the project, any contract had yet to be signed by aircraft manufacturers. The French government threatened to put the programme on hold if no commercial application was found before spring 1979. In the United States, United Airlines finally decided in March 1979 to choose the CFM56 to replace the engines of the DC-8 cargo aircraft.\nOn November 8, 1979, the CFM56 was certified for a nominal thrust of 24,000 lb simultaneously by the DGAC (Direction G\u00e9n\u00e9rale de l'Aviation Civile) in France and the FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) in the United States. For the first time an engine has been certified jointly by the US agency and a European national agency. The CFM56 can now power commercial transport aircraft.\nThe CFM56 made its first commercial flight in April 1982 on a DC-8 Super 70 for Delta Air Lines, on a route between Atlanta and Savannah, Georgia. In February 1987, Snecma achieved its initial goal of becoming a benchmark engine manufacturer for the new European twinjet, with the maiden flight of the CFM56-5-powered A320. In 1991, the 5,000th CFM56 was delivered to Airbus Industrie. The 10,000th CFM56 was delivered at the 1999 Paris Air Show.\nProduction.\nIn December 1995, the Aerospace Industries Association listed 4,474 CFM engines in service, representing 12% of the installed base in the world's civil transport aircraft fleet.\nIn 2016, CFM delivered 1,665 CFM56 and 77 LEAP, and booked 2,677 orders : 876 CFM56 and 1,801 LEAP for US$36 billion at list price. The LEAP engine backlog exceeded 12,200 which was valued at more than US$170 billion at list price.\nIn 2017, CFM delivered 1,900 engines including 459 LEAPs, of which it plans to deliver 1,200 in 2018, 1,800 in 2019 and more than 2,000 in 2020.\nIn 2019, CFM deliveries stood at 2,127 : 1,736 Leaps and 391 CFM56s (-63%), and plans to produce 1,400 engines in 2020.\nDue to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on aviation, deliveries of LEAP engines across the first nine months of 2020 fell to 622 from 1,316 in the same period in 2019, and 123 CFM56 against 327, while LEAP fleet cycles were down 15% year-on-year and CFM cycles were 48% lower.\nCFM announced the RISE project in June 2021, with plans to enter service in the mid 2030s.\nThe future of CFM.\nIn the early 2000s, CFM launched a new cutting-edge technology programme: LEAP (Leading Edge Aviation Propulsion). The first LEAP began ground testing at GE's Peebles (Ohio) facility in September 2013, then at Snecma\u2019s plant in Villaroche the following year. The LEAP-1C is the first of the family to begin flight testing on a modified GE Boeing 747-100.\nIn 2021, the CFM International partnership has been renewed until 2050 and extended to include services."}
{"id": "731753", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731753", "title": "SNECMA", "text": ""}
{"id": "731757", "revid": "25530780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731757", "title": "President Venustiano Carranza", "text": ""}
{"id": "731766", "revid": "49191339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731766", "title": "Kambar (poet)", "text": "Kambar, or Kamban (1180\u20131250), was an Indian poet. He is the author of the \"Ramavataram\", popularly known as \"Kambaramayanam\", the Tamil version of the Hindu epic Ramayana. He had also authored several other literary works in Tamil including \"Silai Elupatu\", \"Kangai Puranam\", \"Sadagopar Antati\" and \"Saraswati Antati\".\nLife.\nKambar was believed to have been born in Therazhundur (in present day Tamil Nadu). He was supported and patronised by Sadayappa Vallal. He grew up in the Chola Empire during the reign of Kulothunga Chola III. Having heard of Kamban's talent, Kulothunga summoned him to his court and honoured him with the title \"Kavi Chakravarty\" (\"Emperor of poets\"). Kamban was well versed in Tamil and Sanskrit languages. His life time is dated to the 12th century CE, after the lifetime of Vaishnavite philosopher Ramanuja, as the poet refers to the latter in his work.\nThere are no clear information of his later whereabouts, with multiple stories in folklore. As per one theory, Kamban spent his last days in Nattarasankottai near present day Sivagangai. After having differences with Kulothunga's son, Rajaraja III, he left the Chola kingdom and moved from place to place. When he reached at Nattarasankottai, he decided to stay there and spent his last days there. There is tomb dedicated to him at the location and the annual \"Kamban vizha\" is conducted at this place to felicitate Kambar. \nIn another story, Kamban was exiled by Kulothunga due to a misunderstanding, and Kulothunga executed Kamban's son Ambigapathy for having a love affair with his daughter. Grief-stricken and enraged at Kulothunga's brutality, Kamban wandered around the Tamil lands and finally entered the service of the Cheras. He eventually returned again when invited by the Chola ruler, but this renewed friendship was short-lived, and tensions rose once more. Kulothunga ultimately executed Kamban on the pretext that he had maintained ties with the Chera king and had murdered the youngest prince. Before his death, Kamban cursed the king, declaring that his lineage would come to an end.\nIn popular culture.\nKamban is portrayed by Serukalathur Sama in the Tamil-language film \"Ambikapathy\" (1937). In the film \"Ambikapathy\" (1957), M. K. Radha played Kamban."}
{"id": "731768", "revid": "35936988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731768", "title": "Presley", "text": "Presley is a surname and given name.\nEtymology.\nThe name \"Presley\" is derived from the Old English \"preost\", meaning \"priest\", and \"leah\" meaning \"forest clearing\".\nHistory.\nMost instances of the surname \"Presley\" and variants \"Pressley\" and \"Pressly\" are thought to be of English origin. Later, if not found in some form originating also in Scotland, the name made its way across the border to that country, then on to Ireland and to the United States. However, some of the instances of the name in America may derive from the German surname Preslar (ultimately from Bressler, meaning 'from Breslau' (formerly in Germany, now in Poland)), as individuals in some post-colonial American records are recorded under both names.\nThe surname came to prominence in the person of Elvis Presley (known simply as Elvis), the American music icon, whose family, according to genealogists, has come from the German town of Neuhochstadt in Palatinate, via a certain Johannes Valentin Preslar that emigrated with his sons to North Carolina in the early 1700s.\nIn the United States and Australia, however, Presley is often an Anglicized form of German surnames such as Preslar and Presler. This is thought to be a habitational name from Breslau, Poland. Former President Jimmy Carter, through his mother, is thought to descend from Johann Valentin Preslar/Presler, who along with his family reached America and later the then frontier area of the central Carolinas sometime during the mid-18th century. Elvis Presley may have had the same ancestor.\nToday, Presley ranks as the 1,825 most common surname in the United States."}
{"id": "731770", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731770", "title": "Graham Nicholls", "text": "Graham Nicholls (born 30 July 1975) is a British author, installation artist and specialist on out of body experiences. He speaks widely on parapsychology, ethics and art at institutions ranging from the London Science Museum, The Society for Psychical Research to the Cambridge Union Society.\nEarly life.\nGraham Nicholls was born in the Paddington district of central London into a working-class family. He states that during his early life he was surrounded by crime and social problems, but that the influence of literature, art, science and spiritual philosophies helped him to look beyond the limitations of this environment.\nArt career.\nSince the early 1990s Nicholls has developed artistic works that explore subjects such as sensory deprivation, hypnosis, and psi abilities. Nicholls had his first solo show at a gallery run by James Fuentes in New York City in July 1999 and in 2004 developed many of his psychological ideas into an interactive virtual reality installation called The Living Image. The installation was a collaboration between Graham Nicholls, 3D designer Roma Patel, and site-specific artist Trudi Entwistle at London's Science Museum, much of which was based upon Nicholls's life and locations from his childhood. The project was the subject of an academic study into the impact of virtual reality and installation art, the details of which were later published in two books dealing with scenography and performance. Technology and science, such as that used in The Living Image project, take a central role in his artistic output, his virtual web projects being considered internationally recognised by the \"Handbook of the economics of art and culture\".\nOut-of-body experiences.\nNicholls claims to have had out of body experiences (OBEs) since the age of approximately twelve years old. These experiences led him to study many aspects of parapsychology. In 2009 Nicholls outlined his experiences and ideas relating to OBEs in an article that appeared in Kindred Spirit magazine. In the article he makes it clear that he believes mainstream science will eventually fully embrace psi, or psychical perceptions as natural, rather than supernatural or paranormal.\nAs part of his inquiry into psi and human consciousness, in 2009 he began working on a series of telepathy experiments in a joint project with controversial scientist Rupert Sheldrake. The resulting data formed part of Rupert Sheldrake's research as director of the Perrott-Warrick project, administered by Trinity College, Cambridge.\nVeridical cases.\nNicholls also claims to have had several veridical out-of-body experiences. In his books, articles and in recent videos published he gives examples of his out-of-body experiences that have been witnessed and confirmed by others. The videos feature the witnesses describing what they saw and recorded in notes at the time of the OBEs supporting Nicholls version of events. He also outlines an example of a claimed objective OBE in his October 2011 article for the journal of The Institute of Noetic Sciences. Skeptics would generally dispute such claims as unreliable and impossible by current understandings of science.\nSkepticism.\nIn the October 2012 issue of The Psychologist, the journal of the British Psychological Society, a review of Navigating the Out-of-Body Experience by Graham Nicholls, criticised him for failing \"to take into account psychometric properties (e.g. reliability and validity)\" in the questionnaire section of the book. The reviewer went on to state that the book \"does not meet the standards required by professional psychologists\".\nWell known sceptic and critic of parapsychology James Randi also responded to an article about Nicholls that appeared in 2011 asking why those mentioned in the article, including Dean Radin, Rupert Sheldrake, Michael Persinger, and Graham Nicholls have not applied for the One Million Dollar Paranormal Challenge. Nicholls penned a response to Randi expressing doubts towards Randi's honesty, scientific credibility, and the limits of a single test to explore issues such as the existence of OBEs.\nActivism.\nIn 2004 Nicholls founded an organisation called the \"Shahmai Network\" with a special focus on work towards relieving poverty, as well as human rights. The network were official members of the Make Poverty History campaign focused on campaigning for debt relief to countries in situations of extreme poverty, this culminated with protests aimed to influence the G8 conference, which took place in 2005.\nBeyond poverty he is also interested in the various social justice issues. According to a 2012 book on polyamory, Nicholls supports LGBT issues, polyamory, and feminism. \nIn 2009 he founded www.polyamory.org.uk, the United Kingdom's first website about polyamory; at the time he was in a polyamorous triad with two female partners.\nHe is also an outspoken supporter of animal rights and veganism; in a recent interview he states that he has been vegetarian since 1992 and went vegan in 2005. He also states that \"Veganism was the obvious next step in my ethical understanding and one that avoids supporting violent and exploitative practices.\""}
{"id": "731773", "revid": "22604547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731773", "title": "Stock photography", "text": "Stock photography is the supply of photographs that are often licensed for specific uses. The stock photo industry, which began to gain hold in the 1920s, has established models including traditional macrostock photography, midstock photography, and microstock photography. Conventional stock agencies charge from several hundred to several thousand US dollars per image, while microstock photography may sell for around US$0.25. Professional stock photographers traditionally place their images with one or more stock agencies on a contractual basis, while stock agencies may accept the high-quality photos of amateur photographers through online submission.\nThemes for stock photos are diverse, although Megan Garber of \"The Atlantic\" wrote in 2012 that \"one of the more wacky/wondrous elements of stock photos is the manner in which, as a genre, they've developed a unifying editorial sensibility. To see a stock image is... to \"know\" you're seeing a stock image.\" Historically notable traditional stock photo agencies have included RobertStock, the Bettman Archive in New York, and the Hulton Archive in the United Kingdom, among many others. In the 1990s companies such as Photodisc in Seattle, Washington, began selling CD ROMs with packs of images, pioneering the royalty-free licensing system at a time when Rights Managed licensing was the norm in the stock industry. There was a great amount of consolidation among stock photo agencies between 1990 and the mid-2000s, particularly through Corbis and Getty Images. The early microstock company iStockphoto was founded in May 2000, followed by companies such as Dreamstime, 123RF, Shutterstock, DepositPhotos and Adobe Stock.\nHistory.\nFirst stock photo companies (1920\u20131930s).\nNewspapers and magazines were first able to reproduce photographs instead of line art in the mid-1880s with the invention of the half-tone and its use on a printing press. Initially starting with staff photographers, independent free-lance photographers eventually took over. One of the first examples of a stock photo was circa 1920 when American photographer H. Armstrong Roberts ensured that the people photographed in \"Group in Front of Tri-Motor Airplane\" all signed model releases. This allowed the photograph and others like it to be commercially viable. In an effort to save the cost of hiring photographers for commission-based photo shoots, publishers and advertisers began to consider stock photos as a less risky alternative. One of the first major stock photography libraries was founded in 1920 by H. Armstrong Roberts.\nThe Bettmann Archive in New York is an example of an early traditional stock agency, with the company delivering photos upon 24-hour request to magazines such as \"Look\" and \"Life\". Founded in 1936 by Otto Bettmann, a German curator who emigrated to the United States in 1935, the Bettman Archive began with Bettmann's personal collection of 15,000 images which he brought with him in suitcases when he escaped from Nazi Germany. He actively expanded his collection by placing ads in magazines for stills and photos. A different early pioneer with the stock industry was photographer Tony Stone, whose portfolio of mountain scenes proved popular with chocolate advertisers. Stone's stock library eventually reached 20,000 images, each selected for its likelihood to sell multiple copies.\nNew indexing systems and growth (1940s\u20131980s).\nKnown as a stock resource for newspapers and magazines, the Hulton Archive started as the photographic archive of \"Picture Post\". As the archive expanded through World War II, it became clear that its vast collection of photographs and negatives were becoming an important historical documentary resource. In 1945, Sir Edward Hulton set up the Hulton Press Library as a semi-independent operation and commissioned Charles Gibbs-Smith of the Victoria and Albert Museum to catalogue the entire archive using a system of keywords and classifications. The Gibbs-Smith system claims to be the world's first indexing system for pictures, and it was eventually adopted by the British Museum collections.\nExpansion and transition online (1980s\u20131990s).\nBy the 1980s, stock photography had become a specialty in its own right, with the stock industry advancing quickly. As photo libraries transitioned from physical archives to servers in the mid-1990s, \"stock libraries\" were increasingly called \"stock agencies\". The archives also began to rely increasingly on keywords for sorting and retrieving photographs. In 1991, Photodisc in Seattle, Washington, began selling CD ROMs with packs of images. Unlike their competitors, Photodisc licensed the image packs as Royalty Free. In contrast to the Rights Managed system, royalty free allowed the purchaser of a CD ROM to use the images as many times as they liked without paying further fees.\nThere was a great amount of consolidation among stock photo agencies between 1990 and the mid-2000s, with Corbis notably acquiring the massive Bettmann Archive in 1995. After Photodisc went online in 1995, in September 1997, PhotoDisc agreed to combine with London-based Getty Communications to form the Seattle-based Getty Images. In 1996, the Hulton Picture Collection was bought by Getty Images for \u00a38.6 million.\nAlamy (registered as Alamy Limited) is a privately owned stock photography agency launched in 1999. Alamy maintains an online archive of over one hundred million still images, illustrations and hundreds of thousands of videos contributed by agencies and independent photographers or collected from news archives, museums and national collections. Its suppliers include both professional and amateur photographers, stock agencies, news archives, museums and national collections. Its clients are from the photography, publishing and advertising industries and the general public.\nRecent developments (2000\u2013present).\nThe early microstock company iStockphoto was founded in May 2000. Originally a free stock imagery website, it transitioned into its current micropayment model in 2001. iStockphoto co-founders Bruce Livingstone and Brianna Wettlaufer then went on to start Stocksy United in 2013. Helping pioneer the subscription-based model of stock photography, Shutterstock was founded in 2003 with a monthly subscription fee. Online since 2000 as a royalty-free stock photography website, in 2004 Dreamstime was founded as new microstock agency. Other stock agencies with new business models around this time included fotoLibra, which opened to the public in 2005, and Can Stock Photo, which debuted in 2004. By 2007 Dreamstime was competing with iStockphoto, Fotolia and Shutterstock, all expanded into major microstock companies. In March 2013 microstock company Depositphotos launched Clashot, a service that allows smartphone users to instantly upload photos to the photobank from their devices, followed by Fotolia, that launched the very similar Fotolia Instant later that year.\nBetween the 1990s and the mid-2000s, Bill Gates' Corbis Images and Getty Images combined purchased more than 40 stock photo agencies. iStockphoto, or iStock.com, was acquired by Getty in 2006. In February 2009, Jupitermedia Corporation sold their online stock images division, Jupiterimages, to Getty Images for $96 million in cash, including the sites stock.xchng and StockXpert. In 2005, Scoopt started a photo news agency for citizen journalism enabling the public to upload and sell breaking news images taken with cameraphones. In 2007 Scoopt was purchased by Getty Images, which closed it in 2009. In 2012 Shutterstock became the first microstock agency to complete an initial public offering, with the company's shares reaching a $2.5 billion market value by late 2013.\nDescription.\nStock photography refers to the supply of photographs, which are often licensed for specific uses such as magazine publishing or pamphlet-making. According to \"The New York Times\", as of 2005 \"most\" book cover designers prefer stock photography agencies over photographers in efforts to save costs. Publishers can then purchase photographs on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis.\nEstablished models of stock photography include:\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", conventional stock agencies charge from several hundred to several thousand American dollars per image, and \"base fees on the published size of an image, circulation and other factors.\" Microstock photos may sell for as little as US$0.25. Professional stock photographers traditionally place their images with one or more stock agencies on a contractual basis, with a defined commission basis and specified contract term. The industry standard is purportedly 30 to 50 percent to the photographer, although at the start of the stock photography industry, fees were typically cut half and half between the agency and artist. Other stock agencies may accept the high-quality photos of amateur photographers through online submission.\nSome online photo websites have created unique software to search for fitting stock photos, for example searching for complicated keyword combinations, color, shapes, and \"moods\". Other search engines may seek to quantify the best photos by looking for elements as diverse as \"bright lights\", \"evidence of emotional connections between people\", and the tilt of faces.\nStyles and trends.\nTraditional stock photo agencies have large catalogues that may include press archives and works by notable photographers such as Bert Hardy, Bill Brandt, Weegee and Ernst Haas. More recent trends in microstock photography include \"lifestyle\" photographs of people \"at work and play\", food, sports, and fashion. Other stock photo themes may include stereotypes, expressing common emotions and gesticulations, pets, and images related to travel and tourism.\nIn the early 1990s, the stock industry focused on \"conceptual images\", which could encapsulate themes such as \"global communication, success, and teamwork\". After the consolidation of many stock photo agencies in the 1990s and early 2000s, new companies began focusing on \"niche collections\" including \"medical, science, minorities, gay and lesbian lifestyles, aviation, maps, panoramas, historical, sports, and celebrity homes\". Opined Megan Garber of \"The Atlantic\" in 2012, \"one of the more wacky/wondrous elements of stock photos is the manner in which, as a genre, they've developed a unifying editorial sensibility. To see a stock image is, Potter Stewart-style, to \"know\" you're seeing a stock image. And while stock images' stockiness may be in part due to the common visual tropes that give them their easy, cheesy impact - prettiness, preciousness, pose-iness - there's part of it that's more ephemeral, too. Though they have little in common, shots of a German Shepherd typing on a laptop and a man contemplating the sunset can both be, in their special way, stocky.\"\nTypes of stock photo licenses.\nPublic domain (PD).\nIn relation to photography and graphics, public domain (PD) means the image is free to use without purchasing a license, and can be used for commercial or personal purposes. Works in the public domain are those whose exclusive intellectual property rights have expired, have been forfeited, or are inapplicable.\nRoyalty-free (RF).\nIn photography and the illustration industry, royalty-free (RF) refers to a copyright license where the user has the right to use the picture without many restrictions based on one-time payment to the licensor. The user can, therefore, use the image in several projects without having to purchase any additional licenses. RF licenses cannot be given on an exclusive basis. In stock photography, RF is one of the common licenses sometimes contrasted with Rights Managed licenses and often employed in subscription-based or microstock photography business models.\nRights-managed (RM).\nRights Managed (RM) in the stock photo industry (sometimes called \"licensed images\") refers to a copyright license that, if purchased by a user, allows the one-time use of the photo as specified by the license. If the user wants to use the photo for other uses an additional license needs to be purchased. RM licenses can be given on a nonexclusive or exclusive basis. In stock photography RM is one of the two common license types together with royalty-free, subscription, and microstock photography being business models often confused as separate license types (both use the royalty-free license type)."}
{"id": "731774", "revid": "48111478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731774", "title": "Law of Moses", "text": "The Law of Moses ( ), also called the Mosaic Law, is the law said to have been revealed to Moses by God. The term primarily refers to the Torah or the first five books of the Hebrew Bible.\nTerminology.\nThe Law of Moses or Torah of Moses (Hebrew: , , Septuagint , , or in some translations the \"Teachings of Moses\") is a biblical term first found in the Book of Joshua , where Joshua writes the Hebrew words of \"Torat Moshe \" on an altar of stones at Mount Ebal. The text continues:\nThe term occurs 15 times in the Hebrew Bible, a further 7 times in the New Testament, and repeatedly in Second Temple period, intertestamental, rabbinical and patristic literature.\nThe Hebrew word for the first five books of the Hebrew Bible, \"Torah\" (which means \"law\" and was translated into Greek as \"nomos\" or \"Law\") refers to the same five books termed in English \"Pentateuch\" (from Latinised Greek \"five books\", implying the five books of Moses). According to some scholars, use of the name \"Torah\" to designate the \"Five Books of Moses\" of the Hebrew Bible is clearly documented only from the 2nd century BCE.\nIn modern usage, \"Torah\" can refer to the first five books of the Tanakh, as the Hebrew Bible is commonly called, to the instructions and commandments found in the 2nd to 5th books of the Hebrew Bible, and also to the entire Tanakh and even all of the Oral Law as well. Among English-speaking Christians the term \"The Law\" can refer to the whole Pentateuch including Genesis, but this is generally in relation to the New Testament where \"nomos\" \"the Law\" sometimes refers to all five books, including Genesis. This use of the Hebrew term \"Torah\" (law) for the first five books is considered misleading by 21st-century Christian bible scholar John Van Seters, because the Pentateuch \"consists of about one half law and the other half narrative\".\nLaw in the Ancient Near East.\nThe \"Law of Moses\" in ancient Israel was different from other legal codes in the ancient Near East because transgressions were seen as offences against God rather than solely as offences against society (civil law). This contrasts with the Sumerian Code of Ur-Nammu (\u20132050 BCE), and the Babylonian Code of Hammurabi (, of which almost half concerns contract law).\nHowever, the influence of the ancient Near Eastern legal tradition on the Law of ancient Israel is recognised and well documented, for example, in principles such as (\"eye for an eye\"), and in the content of the provisions. Some similarities are striking, such as in the provisions concerning a man-goring ox (Code of Hammurabi laws 250\u2013252, Exodus 21:28\u201332). Some writers have posited direct influence: David P. Wright, for example, asserts that the Covenant Code is \"directly, primarily, and throughout dependent upon the Laws of Hammurabi\", \"a creative rewriting of Mesopotamian sources to be viewed as an academic abstraction rather than a digest of laws\". Others posit indirect influence, such as via Aramaic or Phoenician intermediaries. There is consensus that the similarities are a result of inheriting common oral traditions. Another example, the Israelite Sabbatical Year has antecedents in the Akkadian \"mesharum\" edicts granting periodic relief to the poor. An important distinction, however, is that in ancient Near East legal codes, as in more recently unearthed Ugaritic texts, an important, and ultimate, role in the legal process was assigned to the king. Ancient Israel, before the monarchical period beginning with David, was set up as a theocracy, rather than a monarchy, although God is most commonly portrayed like a king.\nHebrew Bible.\nMoses and authorship of the Law.\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, Moses was the leader of early Israel out of Egypt; and traditionally the first five books of the Hebrew Bible are attributed to him, though most modern scholars believe there were multiple authors. The law attributed to Moses, specifically the laws set out in the books of Leviticus and Deuteronomy, as a consequence came to be considered supreme over all other sources of authority (any king and/or his officials), and the Levites were the guardians and interpreters of the law.\nThe Book of Deuteronomy () records Moses saying, \"Take this book of the law, and put it by the side of the Ark of the Covenant of the \". Similar passages referring to the Law include, for example, Exodus 17:14, \"And the said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven; Exodus 24:4, \"And Moses wrote all the words of the , and rose up early in the morning, and built an altar under the mount, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel; Exodus 34:27, \"And the said unto Moses, Write thou these words, for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with Israel; and \"These are the decrees, the laws and the regulations that the established on Mount Sinai between himself and the Israelites through Moses.\nLater references to the Law in the Hebrew Bible.\nThe Book of Kings relates how a \"law of Moses\" was discovered in the Temple during the reign of king Josiah (r. 641\u2013609 BCE).\nAnother mention of the \"Book of the Law of Moses\" is found in .\nContent.\nThe content of the Law is spread among the books of Exodus, Leviticus, and Numbers, and then reiterated and added to in Deuteronomy. This includes:\nRabbinical Interpretation.\nThe content of the instructions and its interpretations, the Oral Torah, was passed down orally, excerpted and codified in Rabbinical Judaism, and in the Talmud were numbered as the 613 commandments. The law given to Moses at Sinai () is a halakhic distinction.\nRabbinic Judaism asserts that Moses presented the laws to the Jewish people, and that the laws do not apply to Gentiles (including Christians), with the exception of the Seven Laws of Noah, which (it teaches) apply to all people.\nChristian interpretation.\nOrthodox Christians regard the Law of Moses as still fully in effect but transformed and fulfilled in a number of ways. Other Christians believe that only parts dealing with the moral law (as opposed to ceremonial law) are still applicable, others believe that none apply, dual-covenant theologians believe that the Old Covenant remains valid only for Jews, and a minority have the view that all parts still apply to believers in Jesus and in the New Covenant without any transformation in their character. Hebrew Catholics believe that the Law of Moses is not obligatory for Christians, but yet beneficial to preserve the Jewish identity of those Jews who have become Catholic, and as a devotional.\nDuring the Enlightenment, European society transitioned from the religious traditional social order of the Middle Ages into the modern Age of Reason. Anti-semitism, once driven by religious conviction and the persistent belief that Jews should be blamed for the death of Jesus, was reconfigured. The influence of Hebrew scripture and authoritarian ritual practice on Christian orthodoxy (including the Catholic Church) became the basis for attacks on Church authority. Anti-Semitic polemic against the Mosaic Law became a common theme for many well-known Enlightenment philosophers. Pierre Bayle, a deist, criticized the biblical figures from the Old Testament and their adherence to religious law which he said operated in an authoritarian manner to regulate social and community behavior instead of a personal conscience that requires agency.\nIn Islam.\nMuslims believe Moses was one of the major prophets (and apostles) of God and the Law was one of the three major revealed scriptures known by name beside the Quran, which mentions the Law or Torah a total of eighteen times, and repeats commandments from it:"}
{"id": "731776", "revid": "227260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731776", "title": "Fat sand rat", "text": "The fat sand rat (Psammomys obesus) is a terrestrial mammal from the gerbil subfamily that is mostly found in North Africa and the Middle East, ranging from Mauritania to the Arabian Peninsula. This species usually lives in sandy deserts, but may also be found in rocky terrain or saline marsh areas. Fat sand rats are very selective in their diet, only eating stems and leaves of plants from the family Amaranthaceae, more commonly known as the amaranth family. In captivity, fat sand rats can become obese and rapidly develop diabetes-like symptoms when fed the diet typically given to other rodents. \"P. obesus\" has an average lifespan of 14 months in the wild and 3\u20134 years in captivity.\nEcology.\nActivity patterns.\nThe fat sand rat is diurnal, but its activity on the surface fluctuates depending on the ambient temperature. Its period of activity is shortest in the summer, starting in the early morning and finishing an hour to several hours after. As the year progresses and the temperature becomes colder, the fat sand rat is active for a longer amount of time during the day, and the time at which daily activity is initiated is delayed. Upon emerging from their burrows, individuals spend a part of the beginning of their day sunbathing, engaging in other activities such as foraging afterwards.\nIndividuals with greater body masses have been found to forage for longer periods of time than those with a smaller body mass. When foraging, a fat sand rat will cut pieces away from plants and bring them back to their burrows, where they either eat the plant in the burrow or around the entrance, or store the plant for later consumption, which is called hoarding. The most common way that fat sand rats acquire water in the desert environment is by ingesting plants such as \"Atriplex halimus\", which are high in water content and provide the rodent with preformed water when they are consumed. As a result of this strategy, fat sand rats do not need to drink free-standing water.\nAside from foraging, the fat sand rat also spends time outside the burrow exploring. It is atypical in its exploratory behaviour since when it encounters a novel environment it exhibits perimeter patrolling behaviours, moving in straight lines along the border of an environment, rather than engaging in looping or home base behaviours usually displayed by rodents. Males also spend more time exploring an area than females.\nSociality.\nFat sand rats are not social animals. They live in separate burrows, with males occupying larger ranges of space than females. Typically, members of the same sex actively avoid interacting, but when females do encounter each other, they engage in aggressive behaviours, and will attack each other. Males can interact in an aggressive manner towards each other, pushing or displaying sideways postures, but the majority of their interactions are peaceful. Members of opposite sexes usually only interact with each other for copulation. Aside from copulation, the type of interaction that results between males and females differs depending on which individual approaches the other. When males approach females, the fat sand rats tend to interact in an agonistic manner, and display many different behaviours, some of which include sidling, displaying sideways postures, pushing, upright boxing, and attacking each other. When females initiate the interactions and approach a male, agonistic encounters also occur as with male initiated interactions, but peaceful interactions where animals will sniff, investigate, follow, and groom each other are much more common.\nHabitat selection.\nFat sand rats dig burrows with multiple entrances directly under plants they consume, primarily selecting burrowing sites based on the abundance of Amaranthaceae shrubs in the area over any other factor such as cover. As such, their preferred type of habitat, and the distribution of fat sand rats in a particular habitat changes throughout the year in response to the different growing season of plants in the wadi beds or terraces that they inhabit. Wadi beds are typically populated with Amaranthaceae shrubs, and have dense vegetative cover, while terraces are very sparsely vegetated, leaving the habitat exposed. Distribution of the fat sand rat in a particular habitat is also influenced by the abundance of rainfall in the area, as well as the population density of the site from the previous season. During the winter, fat sand rats prefer the wadi habitat as a result of the vegetative growth during this time, but after a wet autumn, more individuals will burrow in a terrace habitat even when population density is low, as opposed to after a dry autumn, when individuals only burrow in terrace habitats when the population density is high.\nThe burrowing activities of the rodents can impact their habitat, affecting the bacteria in the soil around their burrows such that nitrogen fixation and denitrification activity are decreased. The fat sand rat also disturbs vegetation cover while burrowing, further altering its environment. Mounds of active burrows have significantly less percent cover from vegetation than abandoned burrows and undisturbed land near abandoned burrows.\nAnti-predator behaviour.\nFat sand rats are preyed upon by many desert species, including several kinds of avian predators, snakes, desert cats, and members of the family Mustelidae. Depending on the type of habitat they have burrowed in, they are exposed to different risks concerning predation. In response to the threat of predation, they employ anti-predator vigilance behaviour when above ground, and will stop what they are doing to take an upright posture and survey the area or look intently in one direction. In addition to this posture, the rodents will thump their foot loudly and squeak before retreating into their burrow when frightened. There appears to be no reaction from other nearby individuals in response to this behaviour, so there may be no benefit in terms of warning conspecifics of predators in performing the foot thumping.\nFat sand rats in the terrace habitat spend significantly more time engaging in this vigilance behaviour when they are above ground than individuals living in the wadi beds, but the behaviour is not costly in that it does not interrupt their foraging, as both groups spend equivalent amounts of time foraging. However, there is a difference in foraging behaviour between the two groups, as fat sand rats living in terraces tend to hoard their food more often than those living in wadi beds, and take less time to eat as well. The sociality of the fat sand rat may also have an impact on their antipredator behaviours, as they have been shown to spend less time foraging and feeding, and initiate vigilance behaviour more frequently when compared to a more social desert rodent.\nReproduction.\nThe fat sand rat breeds from autumn to early spring and produces litters usually consisting of one to eight pups, with average litter sizes increasing over the course of the breeding season. When mothers start lactating, their body energy increases, but towards the end of the lactation period, they begin to utilize stored energy instead of increasing body energy, resulting in a decrease in body mass. The growth rate of pups is maximized when the litter is small and the mother eats plants with a higher water content. The young disperse from their mother at about 5\u00a0weeks of age.\nThe sexual activity of male fat sand rats is not affected by weather conditions. However, there is a correlation between rainfall and the sexual activity of females, with more females being sexually active as the amount of rainfall increases. Reproductive strategies differ between the sexes, with females utilizing smaller ranges of space around their burrow with adequate food resources to provide for their young. Meanwhile, males occupy larger home ranges that overlap with multiple female ranges, creating the potential to mate with several females. Females initiate copulation and have stereotypical behaviours for approaching males, squealing and turning to dig in and kick sand towards the male. After this display, the female will exhibit lordosis, and the male will mount the female over a series of copulations. Often, a female will lose interest quickly, and will threaten or act aggressively towards the male between mounts.\nMedical significance.\nAlthough they remain lean when fed their natural, vegetable-based diet, fat sand rats can easily become obese and acquire type\u00a02 diabetes mellitus when they are fed a normal rodent diet of grains. Therefore, they have been used as an animal model for studies on diabetes and obesity. Sequencing of the complete nuclear DNA genome of \"Psammomys obesus\" showed that the \"Pdx1\" homeobox gene, a transcriptional activator of insulin, has undergone massive amino acid sequence changes in sand rat and other gerbil species driven by accumulation of GC-biased mutations (changes from A or T nucleotides to G or C nucleotides). It has been suggested that these changes affect function of the PDX1 protein and contributed to adaptation to low caloric intake or a diabetes-prone phenotype. However, a causative link has not been proven. Many regions of the sand rat genome, not only the Pdx1 gene, have been affected by accumulation of GC-biased mutations.\nBecause they are diurnal, fat sand rats are also used as models for human seasonal affective disorder.\nThe presence of fat sand rats in North Africa and the Middle East is of healthcare importance. \"Leishmania\" kDNA has been discovered in this rodent using molecular studies, suggesting the species can host the parasite that causes leishmaniasis in humans.\nThese animals have been studied extensively for their remarkably efficient kidneys: they can produce very concentrated urine, which enables them to eat halophyte plants and survive extreme heat and lack of water in their desert habitat."}
{"id": "731777", "revid": "1956573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731777", "title": "Naked Mole", "text": ""}
{"id": "731778", "revid": "49214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731778", "title": "Fletcher Pratt", "text": "Murray Fletcher Pratt (25 April 1897 \u2013 10 June 1956) was an American writer of history, science fiction, and fantasy. He is best known for his works on naval history and the American Civil War and for fiction written with L. Sprague de Camp.\nLife and work.\nAccording to de Camp, Pratt was born near Tonawanda, New York. The son of Robert M. and Alice Horton Pratt, he attended public schools in Buffalo and graduated from high school in 1915 at the Griffith Institute in Springville, New York, where his father operated a trucking delivery service between Springville and Buffalo.\nFollowing high school he attended Hobart College in Geneva, New York, for one year. In February 1916 the Associated Press reported that he had been arrested for burglary in Geneva after a series of midnight cash drawer robberies that allegedly netted him less than $25. He was reported to have told police that his father did not supply him with enough funds to survive at Hobart. On February 23 the \"Buffalo Enquirer\" reported: \"Pratt's father came on from Springville yesterday and it was practically decided to send the youth to the State Hospital for the Insane at Willard, pending an investigation of his case by the grand jury. It is thought that he may be mentally unsound.\"\nIn May 1918 the \"Washington Star\" reported that the staff at the camp library at the Army's Camp Meade in Maryland had been strengthened by the addition of \"Murray F. Pratt, who recently came here from the Buffalo, N.Y., Public Library\".\nAfter a stint at the \"Buffalo Courier-Express\" he settled in New York City in 1920 and worked for a Staten Island newspaper before turning to freelance writing in 1923. In 1926, he married Inga Stephens, an artist. According to de Camp she was his second wife. In the late 1920s he began selling stories to pulp magazines, primarily the science fiction magazines published by Hugo Gernsback. Many of these stories were either written with a collaborator or were translations from French and German sources.\nWhen a fire gutted his apartment in the early 1930s, according to de Camp's memoir, he used the insurance money to study at the Sorbonne for a year. After his return from France he was a staff writer for \"American Detective\", a true crime magazine, and began writing histories. His short history of the Civil War, \"Ordeal by Fire\", was published to critical acclaim in 1935 and became a bestseller.\nStarting in the summer of 1937 Pratt became a regular at the annual Bread Loaf Writers' Conference in Vermont for the next 18 years, eventually becoming their Dean of Nonfiction.\nDuring World War II Pratt was a military analyst for the \"New York Post\" and for \"Time\" magazine (whose obituary described him as \"bearded, gnome-like\" and listed \"raising marmosets\" among his hobbies), and later was a regular reviewer of historical nonfiction and fantasy and science fiction for the \"New York Times Book Review\".\nFollowing World War II the Pratts came into possession of a rambling 31-room Victorian mansion on a high bluff overlooking the Atlantic Ocean at Atlantic Highlands, New Jersey, purchased by Inga Stephens Pratt's wealthy mother for use as a summer place. Whimsically dubbed The Ipsy-Wipsy Institute, the house became a watering hole for Fletcher's literary friends at an unending succession of marathon weekend house parties. A number of writers moved into the mansion's many bedrooms and spent entire summers there. Frequent guests and residents at Ipsy-Wipsy included William Lindsay Gresham, John Ciardi, William Sloane, Basil Davenport, Lester del Rey, Ted Sturgeon, Esther Carlson, Fred Pohl, John D. \nClark, Willy Ley, Judith Merrill, Eugenie Clark, L. Sprague de Camp, and many others. Laurence Manning, Pratt's old writing partner from the 1930s, purchased part of the property and moved in next door. The Pratts simultaneously maintained a large apartment in Midtown Manhattan near Central Park, where they hosted meetings of the Hydra Club.\nPratt was the inventor of a set of rules for naval wargaming, which he created before the Second World War. This was known as the \"Fletcher Pratt Naval War Game\" and it involved dozens of tiny wooden ships, built on a scale of one inch to 50 feet. These were spread over the floor of Pratt's apartment and their strengths were calculated via a complex mathematical formula. Noted author and artist Jack Coggins was a frequent participant in Pratt's Navy Game, and de Camp met him through his wargaming group.\nPratt established the literary dining club known as the Trap Door Spiders in 1944. The name is a reference to the reclusive habits of the trapdoor spider, which when it enters its burrow pulls the hatch shut behind it. The club was later fictionalized as the Black Widowers in a series of mystery stories by Isaac Asimov. Pratt himself was fictionalized in one story, \"To the Barest\", as the Widowers\u2019 founder, Ralph Ottur.\nHe was also a charter member of The Civil War Round Table of New York, organized in 1951, and served as its president from 1953 to 1954. In 1956, after his death, the Round Table's board of directors established the Fletcher Pratt Award in his honor, which is presented every May to the author or editor of the best non-fiction book on the Civil War published during the preceding calendar year.\nAside from his historical writings, Pratt is best known for his fantasy collaborations with de Camp, the most famous of which is the humorous Harold Shea series, eventually published in full as \"The Complete Compleat Enchanter\" (1989, ). His solo fantasy novels \"The Well of the Unicorn\" and \"The Blue Star\" are also highly regarded. Pratt's story \"Dr. Grimshaw's Sanitarium\" was adapted for radio drama by George Lefferts, and broadcast twice: first on \"Dimension X\" (September 22, 1950) and then on X Minus One (July 14, 1955).\nPratt wrote in a markedly identifiable prose style, reminiscent of the style of Bernard DeVoto. One of his books is dedicated \"To Benny DeVoto, who taught me to write.\"\nSeveral of Pratt's books were illustrated by Inga Stephens Pratt, his wife.\nLegacy.\nDavid Kahn, author of the groundbreaking 1967 book \"The Codebreakers\", gave full credit for his start on the subject to Pratt's \"Secret and Urgent\" (1939) that Kahn had found in the Great Neck, NY public library as a pre-teen in the 1940s.It hooked me \u2014 and I never grew up,' he told \"The Washington Post\" in 1978.\"\nWargame rules.\nThe rules of Pratt's wargame, official variants, and a number of stories about participants and events in his wargame club have been published in \"Fletcher Pratt's Naval Wargame: Wargaming with model ships 1900 - 1945\" by John Curry, ISBN 978-1-4475-1855-6, published by Naval Wargaming Books."}
{"id": "731779", "revid": "52009636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731779", "title": "Movie projector", "text": "A movie projector (or film projector) is an opto-mechanical device for displaying motion picture film by projecting it onto a screen. Most of the optical and mechanical elements, except for the illumination and sound devices, are present in movie cameras. Modern movie projectors are specially built video projectors (see also digital cinema).\nMany projectors are specific to a particular film gauge and not all movie projectors are film projectors since the use of film is required.\nPredecessors.\nThe main precursor to the movie projector was the magic lantern. In its most common setup it had a concave mirror behind a light source to help direct as much light as possible through a painted glass picture slide and a lens, out of the lantern onto a screen. Simple mechanics to have the painted images moving were probably implemented since Christiaan Huygens introduced the apparatus around 1659. Initially, candles and oil lamps were used, but other light sources, such as the argand lamp and limelight were usually adopted soon after their introduction. Magic lantern presentations may often have had relatively small audiences, but the very popular phantasmagoria and dissolving views shows were usually performed in proper theatres, large tents or especially converted spaces with plenty seats.\nBoth Joseph Plateau and Simon Stampfer thought of lantern projection when they independently introduced stroboscopic animation in 1833 with a stroboscopic disc (which became known as the phenakistiscope), but neither of them intended to work on projection themselves. \nThe oldest known successful screenings of stroboscopic animation were performed by Ludwig D\u00f6bler in 1847 in Vienna and taken on a tour to several large European cities for over a year. His Phantaskop had a front with separate lenses for each of the 12 pictures on a disc and two separate lenses were cranked around to direct light through the pictures. \nWordsworth Donisthorpe patented ideas for a cinematographic film camera and a film presentation system in 1876. In reply to the introduction of the phonograph and a magazine's suggestion that it could be combined with projection of stereoscopic photography, Donisthorpe stated that he could do even better and announce that he would present such images in motion. His original Kinesigraph camera gave unsatisfactory results. He had better results with a new camera in 1889 but never seems to have been successful in projecting his movies.\nEadweard Muybridge developed his Zoopraxiscope in 1879 and gave many lectures with the machine from 1880 to 1894. It projected images from rotating glass disks. The images were initially painted onto the glass, as silhouettes. A second series of discs, made in 1892\u201394, used outline drawings printed onto the discs photographically, then colored by hand.\nOttomar Ansch\u00fctz developed his first Electrotachyscope in 1886. For each scene, 24 glass plates with chronophotographic images were attached to the edge of a large rotating wheel and thrown on a small opal-glass screen by very short synchronized flashes from a Geissler tube. He demonstrated his photographic motion from March 1887 until at least January 1890 to circa 4 or 5 people at a time, in Berlin, other large German cities, Brussels (at the 1888 Exposition Universelle), Florence, Saint Petersburg, New York, Boston and Philadelphia. Between 1890 and 1894 he concentrated on the exploitation of an automatic coin-operated version that was an inspiration for Edison Company's Kinetoscope. From 28 November 1894 to at least May 1895 he projected his recordings from two intermittently rotating discs, mostly in 300-seat halls, in several German cities. During circa 5 weeks of screenings at the old Berlin Reichstag in February and March 1895, circa 7.000 paying visitors came to see the show.\nIn 1886, Louis Le Prince applied for a US patent for a 16-lens device that combined a motion picture camera with a projector. In 1888, he used an updated version of his camera to film the motion picture \"Roundhay Garden Scene\" and other scenes. The pictures were privately exhibited in Hunslet. After investing much time, effort and means in a slow and troublesome development of a definitive system, Le Prince eventually seemed satisfied with the result and had a demonstration screening scheduled in New York in 1890. However, he went missing after boarding a train in France and was declared dead in 1897. His widow and son managed to draw attention to Le Prince's work and eventually he came to be regarded as the true inventor of film (a claim also made for many others).\nAfter years of development, Edison eventually introduced the coin-operated peep-box Kinetoscope movie viewer in 1893, mostly in dedicated parlors. He believed this was a commercially much more viable system than projection in theatres. Many other film pioneers found chances to study the technology of the kinetoscope and further developed it for their own movie projection systems.\nThe Eidoloscope, devised by Eugene Augustin Lauste for the Latham family, was demonstrated for members of the press on 21 April 1895 and opened to the paying public on May 20, in a lower Broadway store with films of the Griffo-Barnett prize boxing fight, taken from Madison Square Garden's roof on 4 May. It was the first commercial projection.\nNicholas Power opened a repair shop for Edison projectors, studied them, and developed one of the earliest and most successful projectors without excessive flicker.\nMax and Emil Skladanowsky projected motion pictures with their Bioscop, a flicker-free duplex construction, from 1 to 31 November 1895. They started to tour with their motion pictures, but after catching the second presentation of the Cin\u00e9matographe Lumi\u00e8re in Paris on 28 December 1895, they seemed to choose not to compete. They still presented their motion pictures in several European cities until March 1897, but eventually the Bioscop had to be retired as a commercial failure.\nIn Lyon, Louis and Auguste Lumi\u00e8re perfected the Cin\u00e9matographe, a system that took, printed, and projected film. In late 1895 in Paris, father Antoine Lumi\u00e8re began exhibitions of projected films before the paying public, beginning the general conversion of the medium to projection. They quickly became Europe's main producers with their \"actualit\u00e9s\" like \"Workers Leaving the Lumi\u00e8re Factory\" and comic vignettes like \"The Sprinkler Sprinkled\" (both 1895). Even Edison, joined the trend with the Vitascope, a modified Jenkins' Phantoscope, within less than six months.\nIn the 1910s, a new consumer commodity was introduced aiming at familial activity, the silent home cinema. Hand-cranked tinplate toy movie projectors, also called vintage projectors, were used taking standard 35 mm 8 perforation silent cinema films.\nDigital projectors.\nIn 1999, digital cinema projectors were being tried out in some movie theaters. These early projectors played the movie stored on a computer, and sent to the projector electronically. Due to their relatively low resolution (usually only 2K) compared to later digital cinema systems, the images at the time had visible pixels. By 2006, the advent of much higher 4K resolution digital projection reduced pixel visibility. The systems became more compact over time. By 2009, movie theaters started replacing film projectors with digital projectors. In 2013, it was estimated that 92% of movie theaters in the United States had converted to digital, with 8% still playing film. In 2014, numerous popular filmmakers\u2014including Quentin Tarantino and Christopher Nolan\u2014lobbied large studios to commit to purchase a minimum amount of 35\u00a0mm film from Kodak. The decision ensured that Kodak's 35\u00a0mm film production would continue for several years.\nAlthough usually more expensive than film projectors, high-resolution digital projectors offer many advantages over traditional film units. For example, digital projectors contain no moving parts except fans, can be operated remotely, are relatively compact and have no film to break, scratch or change reels of. They also allow for much easier, less expensive, and more reliable storage and distribution of content. All-electronic distribution eliminates all physical media shipments. There is also the ability to display live broadcasts in theaters equipped to do so.\nPhysiology.\nThe illusion of motion in projected films is a stroboscopic effect that has conventionally been attributed to persistence of vision and later often to (misinterpretations of) beta movement and the phi phenomenon known from Gestalt psychology. The exact neurological principles are not yet entirely clear, but the retina, nerves and brain create the impression of apparent movement when presented with a rapid sequence of near-identical still images and interruptions that go unnoticed (or are experienced as flicker). A critical part of understanding this visual perception phenomenon is that the eye \"is not a camera\", i.e.: there is no frame rate for the human eye or brain. Instead, the eye-brain system has a combination of motion detectors, detail detectors and pattern detectors, the outputs of all of which are combined to create the visual experience.\nThe frequency at which flicker becomes invisible is called the flicker fusion threshold, and is dependent on the level of illumination and the condition of the eyes of the viewer. Generally, the frame rate of 16 frames per second (frame/s) is regarded as the lowest frequency at which continuous motion is perceived by humans. This threshold varies across different species; a higher proportion of rod cells in the retina will create a higher threshold level. Because the eye and brain have no fixed capture rate, this is an elastic limit, so different viewers can be more or less sensitive in perceiving frame rates.\nIt is possible to view the black space between frames and the passing of the shutter by rapidly blinking one's eyes at a certain rate. If done fast enough, the viewer will be able to randomly \"trap\" the darkness between frames or the motion of the shutter. This will not work with (now obsolete) cathode-ray tube displays, due to the persistence of the phosphors, nor with LCD or DLP light projectors, because they refresh the image instantly with no blackout intervals as with traditional film projectors.\nSilent films usually were not projected at constant speeds, but could vary throughout the show because projectors were hand-cranked at the discretion of the projectionist, often following some notes provided by the distributor. When the electric motor supplanted hand cranking in both movie cameras and projectors, a more uniform frame rate became possible. Speeds ranged from about 18 frame/s on upsometimes even faster than modern sound film speed (24 frame/s).\n16 frame/sthough sometimes used as a camera shooting speedwas inadvisable for projection, due to the risk of the nitrate-base prints catching fire in the projector. Nitrate film stock began to be replaced by cellulose triacetate in 1948. A nitrate film fire and its devastating effect is featured in \"Cinema Paradiso\" (1988), a fictional film which partly revolves around a projectionist and his apprentice. \nThe birth of sound film created a need for a steady playback rate to prevent dialog and music from changing pitch and distracting the audience. Virtually all film projectors in commercial movie theaters project at a constant speed of 24 frame/s. This speed was chosen for both financial and technical reasons. A higher frame rate produces a better-looking picture but costs more as film stock is consumed faster. When Warner Bros. and Western Electric were trying to find the ideal compromise projection speed for the new sound pictures, Western Electric went to the Warner Theater in Los Angeles and noted the average speed at which films were projected there. They set that as the sound speed at which a satisfactory reproduction and amplification of sound could be conducted.\nThere are some specialist formats (e.g. Showscan and Maxivision) that project at higher rates\u201460 frames per second for Showscan and 48 for Maxivision. The Hobbit was shot at 48 frames per second and projected at the higher frame rate at specially equipped theaters.\nEach frame of regular 24 fps movies are shown twice or more in a process called \"double-shuttering\" to reduce flicker.\nPrinciples of operation.\nProjection elements.\nAs in a slide projector there are essential optical elements:\nLight source.\nIncandescent lighting and even limelight were the first light sources used in film projection. In the early 1900s up until the late 1960s, carbon arc lamps were the source of light in almost all theaters in the world.\nThe Xenon arc lamp was introduced in Germany in 1957 and in the US in 1963. After film platters became commonplace in the 1970s, Xenon lamps became the most common light source, as they could stay lit for extended periods of time, whereas a carbon rod used for a carbon arc could last for an hour at the most.\nMost lamp houses in a professional theatrical setting produce sufficient heat to burn the film should the film remain stationary for more than a fraction of a second. Because of this, absolute care must be taken in inspecting a film so that it should not break in the gate and be damaged, particularly necessary in the era when flammable cellulose nitrate film stock was in use.\nReflector and condenser lens.\nA curved reflector redirects light that would otherwise be wasted toward the condensing lens.\nA positive curvature lens concentrates the reflected and direct light toward the film gate.\nDouser.\nA metal or asbestos blade cuts off light before it can get to the film. The douser is usually part of the lamphouse and may be manually or automatically operated. Some projectors have a second, electrically controlled douser that is used for changeovers (sometimes called a \"changeover douser\" or \"changeover shutter\"). Some projectors have a third, mechanically controlled douser that automatically closes when the projector slows down (called a \"fire shutter\" or \"fire douser\"), to protect the film if the projector stops while the first douser is still open. Dousers protect the film when the lamp is on but the film is not moving, preventing the film from melting from prolonged exposure to the direct heat of the lamp. It also prevents the lens from scarring or cracking from excessive heat.\nFilm gate and frame advance.\nIf a roll of film is continuously passed between the light source and the lens of the projector, only a continuous blurred series of images sliding from one edge to the other would be visible on the screen. In order to see an apparently moving clear picture, the moving film must be stopped and held still briefly while the shutter opens and closes.\nThe gate is where the film is held still prior to the opening of the shutter. This is the case for both filming and projecting movies. A single image of the series of images comprising the movie is positioned and held flat within the gate.\nThe gate also provides a slight amount of friction so that the film does not advance or retreat except when driven to advance the film to the next image. The intermittent mechanism advances the film within the gate to the next frame while the shutter is closed.\nRegistration pins prevent the film from advancing while the shutter is open. In most cases the registration of the frame can be manually adjusted by the projectionist, and more sophisticated projectors can maintain registration automatically.\nShutter.\nIt is the gate and shutter that gives the illusion of one full frame being replaced exactly on top of another full frame. The gate holds the film still while the shutter is open. A rotating petal or gated cylindrical shutter interrupts the emitted light during the time the film is advanced to the next frame. The viewer does not see the transition, thus tricking the brain into believing a moving image is on screen. Modern shutters are designed with a flicker-rate of two times (48\u00a0Hz) or even sometimes three times (72\u00a0Hz) the frame rate of the film, so as to reduce the perception of screen flickering. (See Frame rate and Flicker fusion threshold.) Higher rate shutters are less light efficient, requiring more powerful light sources for the same light on screen.\nImaging lens and aperture plate.\nA projection objective with multiple optical elements directs the image of the film to a viewing screen. Projector lenses differ in aperture and focal length to suit different needs. Different lenses are used for different aspect ratios.\nOne way that aspect ratios are set is with the appropriate aperture plate, a piece of metal with a precisely cut rectangular hole in the middle of equivalent aspect ratio. The aperture plate is placed just behind the gate, and masks off any light from hitting the image outside of the area intended to be shown. All films, even those in the standard Academy ratio, have extra image on the frame that is meant to be masked off in the projection.\nUsing an aperture plate to accomplish a wider aspect ratio is inherently wasteful of film, as a portion of the standard frame is unused. One solution that presents itself at certain aspect ratios is the \"two-perf pulldown\", where the film is advanced less than one full frame in order to reduce the unexposed area between frames. This method requires a special intermittent mechanism in all film-handling equipment throughout the production process, from the camera to the projector. This is costly, and prohibitively so for some theaters. The anamorphic format uses special optics to squeeze a high aspect ratio image onto a standard Academy frame thus eliminating the need to change the costly precision moving parts of the intermittent mechanisms. A special anamorphic lens is used on the camera to compress the image, and a corresponding lens on the projector to expand the image back to the intended aspect ratio.\nViewing screen.\nIn most cases this is a reflective surface which may be either aluminized (for high contrast in moderate ambient light) or a white surface with small glass beads (for high brilliance under dark conditions). A switchable projection screen can be switched between opaque and clear by a safe voltage under 36V AC and is viewable from both sides. In a commercial theater, the screen also has millions of very small, evenly spaced holes in order to allow the passage of sound from the speakers and subwoofer which often are directly behind it.\nFilm transport elements.\nFilm supply and takeup.\nTwo-reel system.\nIn the two-reel system the projector has two reels\u2013one is the feed reel, which holds the part of the film that has not been shown, the other is the takeup reel, which winds the film that has been shown. In a two-reel projector the feed reel has a slight drag to maintain tension on the film, while the takeup reel is constantly driven with a mechanism that has mechanical slip, to allow the film to be wound under constant tension so the film is wound in a smooth manner.\nThe film being wound on the takeup reel is being wound \"head in, tails out\". This means that the beginning (or \"head\") of the reel is in the center, where it is inaccessible. As each reel is taken off of the projector, it must be re-wound onto another empty reel. In a theater setting there is often a separate machine for rewinding reels. For the 16\u00a0mm projectors that were often used in schools and churches, the projector could be re-configured to rewind films.\nThe size of the reels can vary based on the projectors, but generally films are divided and distributed in reels of up to , about 22 minutes at 24 frames/sec). Some projectors can even accommodate up to , which minimizes the number of changeovers (see below) in a showing. Certain countries also divide their film reels up differently; Russian films, for example, often come on reels, although it is likely that most projectionists working with changeovers would combine them into longer reels of at least , to minimize changeovers and also give sufficient time for threading and any possibly needed troubleshooting time.\nFilms are identified as single-reel \"short subjects\", \"two-reelers\" (such as some of the early Laurel &amp; Hardy, The Three Stooges, and other comedies), and \"features\", which can take any number of reels (although most are limited to 1\u00bd to 2 hours in length, enabling the theater to have multiple showings throughout the day and evening, each showing with a feature, commercials, and intermission to allow the audiences to change). For some time (ca. 1930\u20131960), a typical showing meant a short subject (a newsreel, short documentary, a \"two-reeler\", etc.), a cartoon, and the feature. Some theaters would have movie-based commercials for local businesses, and the state of New Jersey required showing a diagram of the theater showing all of the exits.\nChangeover systems.\nBecause a single film reel does not contain enough film to show an entire feature, the film is distributed on multiple reels. To prevent having to interrupt the show when one reel ends and the next is mounted, two projectors are used in what is known as a \"changeover system\". The projectionist would, at the appropriate point, manually stop the first projector, shutting off its light, and start the second projector, which they had ready and waiting. Later the switching was partially automated, although the projectionist still needed to rewind and mount the bulky, heavy film reels. (35mm reels as received by theaters came unrewound; rewinding was the task of the operator who received the reel.) The two-reel system, using two identical projectors, was used almost universally for movie theaters before the advent of the single-reel system. Projectors were built that could accommodate a much larger reel, containing an entire feature. Although one-reel long-play systems tend to be more popular with the newer multiplexes, the two-reel system is still in significant use to this day.\nAs the reel being shown approaches its end, the projectionist looks for cue marks at the upper-right corner of the picture. Usually these are dots or circles, although they can also be slashes. Some older films occasionally used squares or triangles, and sometimes positioned the cues in the middle of the right edge of the picture.\nThe first cue appears before the end of the program on the reel, equivalent to eight seconds at the standard speed of 24 frames per second. This cue signals the projectionist to start the motor of the projector containing the next reel. After another of film is shown (seven seconds at 24 frames/sec), the changeover cue should appear, which signals the projectionist to actually make the changeover. When this second cue appears, the projectionist has , or one second, to make the changeover. If it does not occur within one second, the film will end and blank white light will be projected on the screen.\nTwelve feet before the \"first frame of action\" countdown leaders have a \"start\" frame. The projectionist positions the start frame in the gate of the projector. When the first cue is seen, the motor of the starting projector is started. Seven seconds later the end of the leader and start of program material on the new reel should just reach the gate of the projector when the changeover cue is seen.\nOn some projectors, the operator would be alerted to the time for a change by a bell that operated when the feed reel rotation exceeded a certain speed (the feed reel rotates faster as the film is exhausted), or based on the diameter of the remaining film (Premier Changeover Indicator Pat. No. 411992), although many projectors do not have such an auditory system.\nDuring the initial operation of a changeover, the two projectors use an interconnected electrical control connected to the changeover button so that as soon as the button is pressed, the changeover douser on the outgoing projector is closed in sync with the changeover douser on the incoming projector opening. If done properly, a changeover should be virtually unnoticeable to an audience. In older theaters, there may be manually operated, sliding covers in front of the projection booth's windows. A changeover with this system is often clearly visible as a wipe on the screen.\nOnce the changeover has been made, the projectionist unloads the full takeup reel from projector \"A\" moves the now-empty reel (that used to hold the film just unloaded) from the feed spindle to the takeup spindle, and loads reel #3 of the presentation on projector \"A\". When reel 2 on projector \"B\" is finished, the changeover switches the live show from projector \"B\" back to projector \"A\", and so on for the rest of the show.\nWhen the projectionist removes a finished reel from the projector it is \"tails out\", and needs to be rewound before the next show. The projectionist usually uses a separate rewind machine and a spare empty reel and rewinds the film so it is \"head out\", ready to project again for the next show.\nOne advantage of this system (at least for the theatre management) was that if a program was running a few minutes late for any reason, the projectionist would simply omit one (or more) reels of film to recover the time.\nIn the early years, with no automation, errors were far from unknown: these included starting a movie that had not been rewound and getting reels confused, so they were projected in the wrong order. Correcting either of these, assuming that someone could tell that the reels were confused, required a complete stop of both projectors, often turning on the house lights, and a delay of a minute or so while the projectionist corrected the error and restarted a projector. These highly visible gaffes, which embarrassed the theater operators, were eliminated with the single-reel and digital systems.\nSingle-reel system.\nThere are two widely used single-reel systems (also known as long-play systems) today: the tower system (vertical feed and takeup) and the platter system (non-rewinding; horizontal feed and takeup).\nThe tower system largely resembles the two-reel system, except in that the tower itself is generally a separate piece of equipment used with a slightly modified standard projector. The feed and takeup reels are held vertically on the axis, except behind the projector, on oversized spools with capacity or about 133 minutes at 24 frame/s. This large capacity alleviates the need for a changeover on an average-length feature; all of the reels are spliced together into one giant one. The tower is designed with four spools, two on each side, each with its own motor. This allows the whole spool to be immediately rewound after a showing; the extra two spools on the other side allow for a film to be shown while another is being rewound or even made up directly onto the tower. Each spool requires its own motor in order to set proper tensioning for the film since it has to travel (relatively) much further between the projector film transport and the spools. As each spool gains or loses film, the tension must be periodically checked and adjusted so that the film can be transported on and off the spools without either sagging or snapping.\nIn a platter system the individual 20-minute reels of film are also spliced together as one large reel, but the film is then wound onto a horizontal rotating table called a platter. Three or more platters are stacked together to create a platter system. Most of the platters in a platter system will be occupied by film prints; whichever platter happens to be empty serves as the \"take-up reel\" to receive the film that is playing from another platter.\nThe way the film is fed from the platter to the projector is not unlike an eight-track audio cartridge. Film is unwound from the center of the platter through a mechanism called a payout unit which controls the speed of the platter's rotation so that it matches the speed of the film as it is fed to the projector. The film winds through a series of rollers from the platter stack to the projector, through the projector, through another series of rollers back to the platter stack, and then onto the platter serving as the take-up reel.\nThis system makes it possible to project a film multiple times without needing to rewind it. As the projectionist threads the projector for each showing, the payout unit is transferred from the empty platter to the full platter and the film then plays back onto the platter it came from. In the case of a double feature, each film plays from a full platter onto an empty platter, swapping positions on the platter stack throughout the day.\nThe advantage of a platter is that the film need not be rewound after each show, which can save labor. Rewinding risks rubbing the film against itself, which can cause scratching of the film and smearing of the emulsion that carries the pictures. The disadvantages of the platter system are that the film can acquire diagonal scratches on it if proper care is not taken while threading film from platter to projector, and the film has more opportunity to collect dust and dirt as long lengths of film are exposed to the air. A clean projection booth kept at the proper humidity is of great importance, as are cleaning devices that can remove dirt from the film print as it plays.\nAutomation and the rise of the multiplex.\nThe single reel system can allow for the complete automation of the projection booth operations, given the proper auxiliary equipment. Since films are still transported in multiple reels they must be joined together when placed on the projector reel and taken apart when the film is to be returned to the distributor. It is the complete automation of projection that has enabled the modern \"multiplex\" cinema \u2013 a single site typically containing from 8 to 24 theaters/auditoriums with only a few projection and sound technicians, rather than a platoon of projectionists. The multiplex also offers a great amount of flexibility to a theater operator, enabling theaters to exhibit the same popular production in more than one auditorium with staggered starting times. It is also possible, with the proper equipment installed, to \"interlock\", i.e. thread a single length of film through multiple projectors. This is very useful when dealing with the mass crowds that an extremely popular film may generate in the first few days of showing, as it allows for a single print to serve more patrons.\nFeed and extraction sprockets.\nSmooth wheels with triangular pins called sprockets engage perforations punched into one or both edges of the film stock. These serve to set the pace of film movement through the projector and any associated sound playback system.\nFilm loop.\nAs with motion picture cameras, the intermittent motion of the gate requires that there be loops above and below the gate in order to serve as a buffer between the constant speed enforced by the sprockets above and below the gate and the intermittent motion enforced at the gate. Some projectors also have a sensitive trip pin above the gate to guard against the upper loop becoming too big. If the loop hits the pin, it will close the dousers and stop the motor to prevent an excessively large loop from jamming the projector.\nFilm gate pressure plate.\nA spring-loaded pressure plate functions to align the film in a consistent image plane, both flat and perpendicular to the optical axis. It also provides sufficient drag to prevent film motion during the frame display, while still allowing free motion under control of the intermittent mechanism. The plate also has spring-loaded runners to help hold film while in place and advance it during motion.\nIntermittent mechanism.\nThe intermittent mechanism can be constructed in different ways. For smaller gauge projectors (8\u00a0mm and 16\u00a0mm), a pawl mechanism engages the film's sprocket hole one side, or holes on each side. This pawl advances only when the film is to be moved to the next image. As the pawl retreats for the next cycle it is drawn back and does not engage the film. This is similar to the claw mechanism in a motion picture camera.\nIn 35\u00a0mm and 70\u00a0mm projectors, there usually is a special sprocket immediately underneath the pressure plate, known as the intermittent sprocket. Unlike all the other sprockets in the projector, which run continuously, the intermittent sprocket operates in tandem with the shutter, and only moves while the shutter is blocking the lamp, so that the motion of the film cannot be seen. It also moves in a discrete amount at a time, equal to the number of perforations that make up a frame (4 for 35\u00a0mm, 5 for 70\u00a0mm). The intermittent movement in these projectors is usually provided by a Geneva drive, also known as the Maltese Cross mechanism.\nIMAX projectors use what is known as the \"rolling loop method\", in which each frame is sucked into the gate by a vacuum and positioned by registration pins in the perforations corresponding to that frame.\nTypes.\nProjectors are classified by the size of the film used, i.e. the film format. Typical film sizes:\n8 mm.\nLong used for home movies before the video camera, this uses double-sprocketed 16\u00a0mm film, which is run through the camera, exposing one side, then removed from the camera, the takeup and feed reels are switched, and the film run through a second time, exposing the other side. The 16\u00a0mm film is then split lengthwise into two 8\u00a0mm pieces that are spliced to make a single projectable film with sprockets holes on one side.\nSuper 8.\nDeveloped by Kodak, this film stock uses very small sprocket holes close to the edge that allow more of the film stock to be used for the images. This increases the quality of the image. The unexposed film is supplied in the 8\u00a0mm width, not split during processing as is the earlier 8\u00a0mm. Magnetic stripes could be added to carry encoded sound to be added after film development. Film could also be pre-striped for direct sound recording in suitably equipped cameras for later projection.\n9.5 mm.\nFilm format introduced by Path\u00e9 Fr\u00e8res in 1922 as part of the Path\u00e9 Baby amateur film system. It was conceived initially as an inexpensive format to provide copies of commercially made films to home users. The format uses a single, central perforation (sprocket hole) between each pair of frames, as opposed to 8\u00a0mm film which has perforations along one edge, and most other film formats which have perforations on each side of the image. \nIt became very popular in Europe over the next few decades and is still used by a small number of enthusiasts today. Over 300,000 projectors were produced and sold mainly in France and England, and many commercial features were available in the format. In the sixties, the last projectors of this format were being produced. The gauge is still alive today. 16\u00a0mm projectors are converted to 9,5mm and it is still possible to buy film stock (from the French Color City company).\n16 mm.\nThis was a popular format for audio-visual use in schools and as a high-end home entertainment system before the advent of broadcast television. In broadcast television news, 16\u00a0mm film was used before the advent of electronic news-gathering. The most popular home content were comedic shorts (typically less than 20 minutes in length in the original release) and bundles of cartoons previously seen in movie theaters. 16\u00a0mm enjoys widespread use today as a format for short films, independent features and music videos, being a relatively economical alternative to 35\u00a0mm. 16\u00a0mm film was a popular format used for the production of TV shows well into the HDTV era.\n35 mm.\nThe most common film size for theatrical productions during the 20th century. In fact, the common 35\u00a0mm camera, developed by Leica, was designed to use this film stock and was originally intended to be used for test shots by movie directors and cinematographers. \n35\u00a0mm film is typically run vertically through the camera and projector. In the mid-1950s the VistaVision system presented widescreen movies in which the film moved horizontally, allowing much more film to be used for the image as this avoided the anamorphic reduction of the image to fit the frame width. As this required specific projectors it was largely unsuccessful as a presentation method while remaining attractive as filming, intermediate, and source for production printing and as an intermediate step in special effects to avoid film granularity, although the latter is now supplanted by digital methods.\n70 mm.\nHigh-end movie productions were often produced in this film gauge in the 1950s and 1960s and many very large screen theaters are still capable of projecting it in the 21st century. It is often referred to as \"65/70\", as the camera uses film 65\u00a0mm wide, but the projection prints are 70\u00a0mm wide. The extra five millimeters of film accommodated the soundtrack, usually a six-track magnetic stripe. The most common theater installation would use dual-gauge 35/70\u00a0mm projectors.\n70\u00a0mm film is also used in both the flat and domed IMAX projection system. In IMAX the film is transported horizontally in the film gate, similar to VistaVision.\nSome productions intended for 35\u00a0mm anamorphic release were also released using 70\u00a0mm film stock. A 70\u00a0mm print made from a 35\u00a0mm negative is significantly better in appearance than an all-35\u00a0mm process and allowed for a release with six-track magnetic audio.\nThe advent of 35\u00a0mm prints with digital soundtracks in the 1990s largely supplanted the widespread release of the more expensive 70\u00a0mm prints.\nSound.\nRegardless of the sound format, any sound represented on the film image itself will not be the sound for the particular frame it occupies. In the gate of the projector head, there is no space for a reader, and the film is not travelling smoothly at the gate position. Consequently, all optical sound formats must be offset from the image because the sound reader is usually located above (for magnetic readers and most digital optical readers) or below (for analog optical readers and a few digital optical) the projector head.\nOptical.\nOptical sound constitutes the recording and reading of amplitude based on the amount of light that is projected through a soundtrack area on a film using an illuminating light or laser and a photocell or photodiode. As the photocell picks up the light in varying intensities, the electricity produced is intensified by an amplifier, which in turn powers a loudspeaker, where the electrical impulses are turned into air vibrations and thus, sound waves. In 16\u00a0mm, this optical soundtrack is a single mono track placed on the right side of the projected image, and the sound head is 26 frames after the gate. In 35\u00a0mm, this can be mono or stereo, on the left side of the projected image, with the sound head 21 frames after the gate.\nThe first form of optical sound was represented by horizontal bands of clear (white) and solid (black) area. The space between solid points represented amplitude and was picked up by the photo-electric cell on the other side of a steady, thin beam of light being shined through it. This \"variable density\" form of sound was eventually phased out because of its incompatibility with color stocks. The alternative and ultimately the successor of variable density has been the \"variable area\" track, in which a clear, vertical waveform against black represents the sound, and the width of the waveform is equivalent to the amplitude. Variable area does have slightly less frequency response than variable density, but because of the grain and variable infrared absorption of various film stocks, variable density has a lower signal-to-noise ratio.\nOptical stereo is recorded and read through a bilateral variable area track. Dolby MP matrix encoding is used to add extra channels beyond the stereo pair. Left, center, right and surround channels are matrix-encoded into the two optical tracks, and decoded using licensed equipment.\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s, optical sound Super-8\u00a0mm copies were produced mainly for airline in-flight movies. Even though this technology was soon made obsolete by video equipment, the majority of small-gauge films used magnetic sound rather than optical sound for a higher frequency range.\nMagnetic.\nMagnetic sound is no longer used in commercial cinema, but between 1952 and the early 1990s (when optical digital movie sound rendered it obsolete) it provided the highest fidelity sound from film because of its wider frequency range and superior signal-to-noise ratio compared to optical sound. There are two forms of magnetic sound in conjunction with projection: double-head and striped.\nThe first form of magnetic sound was the double-head system, in which the movie projector was interlocked with a dubber playing a 35\u00a0mm reel of a full-coat, or film completely coated with magnetic iron-oxide. This was introduced in 1952 with Cinerama, holding six tracks of stereophonic sound. Stereophonic releases throughout 1953 also used an interlocked full-coat for three-channel stereophonic sound.\nIn interlock, since the sound is on a separate reel, it does not need to be offset from the image. Today, this system is usually used only for very low-budget or student productions, or for screening rough cuts of films before the creation of a final married print. Sync between the two reels is checked with SMPTE leader, also known as countdown leader. If the two reels are synced, there should be one frame of \"beep\" sound exactly on the \"2\" frame of the countdown \u2013 two seconds, or 48 frames, before the picture start.\nStriped magnetic film is motion picture film in which stripes of magnetic oxide are placed on the film between the sprocket holes and the edge of the film, and sometimes also between the sprocket holes and the image. Each of these stripes has one channel of the audio recorded on it. This technique was first introduced in September, 1953 by Hazard E. Reeves for Cinemascope. Four tracks are present on the film: Left, Center, Right and Surround. This 35\u00a0mm four-track magnetic sound format was used from 1954 through 1982 for \"roadshow\" screenings of big-budget feature films.\n70\u00a0mm, which had no optical sound, used the five millimeters gained between the 65\u00a0mm negative and the final release print to place three magnetic tracks outside of the perforations on each side of the film for a total of six tracks. Until the introduction of digital sound, it was fairly common for 35\u00a0mm films to be blown up to 70\u00a0mm often just to take advantage of the greater number of soundtracks and the fidelity of the audio.\nAlthough magnetic audio was of excellent quality it also had significant disadvantages. Magnetic sound prints were expensive, 35\u00a0mm magnetic prints cost roughly twice as much as optical sound prints, whilst 70\u00a0mm prints could cost up to 15 times as much as 35\u00a0mm prints. Furthermore, the oxide layer wore out faster than the film itself, and magnetic tracks were prone to damage and accidental erasure. Because of the high cost of installing magnetic sound reproduction equipment only a minority of movie theaters ever installed it and the magnetic soundheads needed considerable maintenance to keep their performance up to standard. As a consequence the use of the Cinemascope 35\u00a0mm four-track magnetic sound format decreased significantly during the course of the 1960s and received stiff competition from the Dolby SVA optical encoding format. However, 70\u00a0mm film continued to be used for prestigious \"roadshow\" screenings until the introduction of digital sound on 35\u00a0mm film in the early 1990s removed one of the major justifications for using this expensive format.\nOn certain stocks of Super 8 and 16\u00a0mm an iron-oxide sound recording strip was added for the direct synchronous recording of sound which could then be played by projectors with a magnetic sound head. It has since been discontinued by Kodak on both gauges.\nDigital.\nModern theatrical systems use optical representations of digitally encoded multi-channel sound. An advantage of digital systems is that the offset between the sound and picture heads can be varied and then set with the digital processors. Digital sound heads are usually above the gate. All digital sound systems currently in use have the ability to instantly and gracefully fall back to the analog optical sound system should the digital data be corrupt or the whole system fail.\nCinema Digital Sound (CDS).\nCreated by Kodak and ORC (Optical Radiation Corporation), Cinema Digital Sound was the first attempt to bring multi-channel digital sound to first-run theaters. CDS was available on both 35\u00a0mm and 70\u00a0mm films. Film prints equipped with CDS did not have the conventional analog optical or magnetic soundtracks to serve as a back-up in case the digital sound was unreadable. Another disadvantage of not having an analog back-up track is that CDS required extra film prints be made for the theaters equipped to play CDS. The three formats that followed, Dolby Digital, DTS and SDDS, can co-exist with each other and the analog optical soundtrack on a single version of the film print. This means that a film print carrying all three of these formats (and the analog optical format, usually Dolby SR) can be played in whichever format the theater is equipped to handle. CDS did not achieve widespread use and ultimately failed. It premiered with the film \"Dick Tracy\" and was used with several other films, such as \"Days of Thunder\" and \"Terminator 2: Judgment Day\".\nSony Dynamic Digital Sound (SDDS).\nSDDS runs on the outside of 35\u00a0mm film, between the perforations and the edges, on both edges of the film. It was the first digital system that could handle up to eight channels of sound. The additional two tracks are for an extra pair of screen channels (Left Center and Right Center) located between the 3 regular screen channels (Left, Center and Right). A pair of CCDs located in a unit above the projector reads the two SDDS tracks. The information is decoded and decompressed before being passed along to the cinema sound processor. By default, SDDS units use an onboard Sony Cinema Sound Processor, and when the system is set up in this manner, the theatre's entire sound system can be equalized in the digital domain. The audio data in an SDDS track is compressed in the 20-bit ATRAC2 compression scheme at a ratio of about 4.5:1. SDDS premiered with the film \"Last Action Hero\". SDDS was the least commercially successful of the three competing digital sound systems for 35\u00a0mm film. Sony ceased the sale of SDDS processors in 2001\u20132002.\nDolby Digital.\nDolby Digital data is printed in the spaces between the perforations on the soundtrack side of the film, 26 frames before the picture. Release prints with Dolby Digital always include an analog Dolby Stereo soundtrack with Dolby SR noise reduction, thus these prints are known as Dolby SR-D prints. Dolby Digital produces 6 discrete channels. In a variant called SR-D EX, the left and right surround channels can be dematrixed into left, right, and back surround, using a matrix system similar to Dolby Pro Logic. The audio data in a Dolby Digital track is compressed in the 16-bit AC-3 compression scheme at a ratio of about 12:1. The images between each perforation are read by a CCD located either above the projector or in the regular analog sound head below the film gate, a digital delay within the processor allowing correct lip-sync to be achieved regardless of the position of the reader relative to the picture gate. The information is then decoded, decompressed and converted to analog; this can happen either in a separate Dolby Digital processor that feeds signals to the cinema sound processor, or digital decoding can be built into the cinema processor. One disadvantage of this system is if the digital printing is not entirely within the space between the sprocket holes; if the track was off a bit on either the top or the bottom, the sound track would be unplayable, and a replacement reel would have to be ordered.\nIn 2006, Dolby discontinued the sale of their external SR-D processor (the DA20), but included Dolby Digital decoding in their CP500 and later CP650 cinema processors.\nA consumer version of Dolby Digital is also used on most DVDs, often at higher data rates than the original film. A bit-for-bit version is used on Blu-ray Discs and HD DVDs called Dolby TrueHD. Dolby Digital officially premiered with the film \"Batman Returns\", but it was earlier tested at some screenings of \"\".\nDigital Theater Systems (DTS).\nDTS actually stores the sound information on separate CD-ROMs supplied with the film. The CDs are fed into a special, modified computer that syncs up with the film through the use of DTS time code, decompresses the sound, and passes it through to a standard cinema processor. The time code is placed between the optical soundtracks and the actual picture and is read by an optical LED ahead of the gate. The time code is actually the only sound system that is not offset within the film from the picture but still needs to be physically set offset ahead of the gate in order to maintain continuous motion. Each disc can hold slightly over 90 minutes of sound, so longer films require a second disc. Three types of DTS sound exist: DTS-ES (Extended Surround), an 8-channel digital system; DTS-6, a 6-track digital system, and a now-obsolete 4 channel system. DTS-ES derives a back surround channel from the left surround and right surround channels using Dolby Pro Logic. The audio data in a DTS track is compressed in the 20-bit APTX-100 compression scheme at a ratio of 4:1.\nOf the three digital formats currently in use, DTS is the only one that has been used with 70\u00a0mm presentations. DTS was premiered on \"Jurassic Park\". Datasat Digital Entertainment, purchaser of DTS's cinema division in May 2008, now distributes Datasat Digital Sound to professional cinemas worldwide.\nA consumer version of DTS is available on some DVDs, and was used to broadcast stereo TV prior to DTV. A bit-for-bit version of the DTS soundtrack is on Blu-ray Discs and HD DVDs called DTS-HD MA (DTS-HD Master Audio).\nLeaders.\nAcademy leader is placed at the head of film release prints containing information for the projectionist and featuring numbers which are black on a clear background, counting from 11 to 3 at 16-frame intervals (16 frames in 35\u00a0mm film = 1\u00a0ft). At \u221212 feet there is a START frame. The numbers appear as a single frame in opaque black leader.\nSMPTE leader is placed at the head of film release prints or video masters containing information for the projectionist or video playback tech. The numbers count down in seconds from \"8\" to \"2\" at 24-frame intervals ending at the first frame of the \"2\" followed by 47 film frames of dark gray or black. Each number is held on the screen for 24 frames while an animated sweep-arm moves clockwise behind the number. As the sweep arm moves across the background field, the color changes from light gray to dark gray. Unlike the other numbers, the \"2\" only appears for one frame.\nUsually there's a one-frame audio pop that plays 48 film frames (two seconds at 24 frames per second) before the first frame of action (FFOA). The pop is used to line up and synchronize audio and picture/video during printing processes or postproduction. The pop is in editorial (level) synchronization with the \"2\" frame on the SMPTE and EBU leader, and with the \"3\" frame on the Academy leader. On most theatrical release prints, the pop is removed by the laboratory to avoid any accidental playing of it during a screening.\nEBU leader (European Broadcast Union) is very similar to the SMPTE leader but with some superficial graphics differences.\nTypes of lenses and screens.\nSpherical.\nMost motion picture lenses are of the spherical variety. Spherical lenses do not distort the image intentionally. Used alone for standard and cropped wide-screen projection, and in conjunction with an anamorphic adapter for anamorphic wide-screen projection, the spherical lens is the most common and versatile projection lens type.\nAnamorphic.\nAnamorphic filming uses only special lenses, and requires no other modifications to the camera, projector and intermediate gear. The intended wide-screen image is compressed optically, using additional cylindrical elements within the lens so that when the compressed image strikes the film, it matches the standard frame size of the camera. At the projector a corresponding lens restores the wide aspect ratio to be seen on the screen. The anamorphic element can be an attachment to existing spherical lenses.\nSome anamorphic formats utilized a more squarish aspect ratio (1.18:1, vs. the Academy 1.375:1 ratio) on-film in order to accommodate more magnetic or optical tracks. Various anamorphic implementations have been marketed under several brand names, including CinemaScope, Panavision and Superscope, with Technirama implementing a slightly different anamorphic technique using vertical expansion to the film rather than horizontal compression. Large format anamorphic processes included Ultra Panavision and MGM Camera 65 (which was renamed Ultra Panavision 70 in the early 60s). Anamorphic is sometimes called \"scope\" in theater projection parlance, presumably in reference to CinemaScope.\nFish eye with dome.\nThe IMAX dome projection method (called \"OMNIMAX\") uses 70\u00a0mm film running sideways through the projector to maximize the image area and extreme wide angle lenses to obtain an almost hemispherical image. The field of view is tilted, as is the projection hemisphere, so one may view a portion of the ground in the foreground. Owing to the great area covered by the picture it is not as bright as seen with flat screen projection, but the immersive qualities are quite convincing. While there are not many theaters capable of displaying this format there are regular productions in the fields of nature, travel, science, and history, and productions may be viewed in most large urban regions. These dome theaters are mostly located in large and prosperous science and technology museums.\nWide and deep flat screen.\nThe IMAX flat screen system uses large format film, a wide and deep screen, and close and quite steep \"stadium\" seating. The effect is to fill the visual field to a greater degree than is possible with conventional wide-screen systems. Like the IMAX dome, this is found in major urban areas, but unlike the dome system it is practical to reformat existing movie releases to this method. Also, the geometry of the theater and screen are more amenable to inclusion within a newly constructed but otherwise conventional multiple theater complex than is the dome-style theater.\nMultiple cameras and projectors.\nOne wide screen development during the 1950s used non-anamorphic projection but used three side-by-side synchronized projectors. Called Cinerama, the images were projected onto an extremely wide, curved screen. Some seams were said to be visible between the images but the almost complete filling of the visual field made up for this. This showed some commercial success as a limited location (only in major cities) exhibition of the technology in \"This is Cinerama\", but the only memorable story-telling film made for this technology was \"How the West Was Won\", widely seen only in its Cinemascope re-release.\nWhile neither a technical nor a commercial success, the business model survives as implemented by the documentary production, limited release locations, and long-running exhibitions of IMAX dome movies.\nThree-dimensional.\nFor techniques used to display pictures with a three-dimensional appearance (3D), see the 3D film article for some movie history and the stereoscopy article for technical information."}
{"id": "731780", "revid": "252195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731780", "title": "Geometrical optics", "text": "Geometrical optics, or ray optics, is a model of optics that describes light propagation in terms of \"rays\". The ray in geometrical optics is an abstraction useful for approximating the paths along which light propagates under certain circumstances.\nThe simplifying assumptions of geometrical optics include that light rays:\nGeometrical optics does not account for certain optical effects such as diffraction and interference, which are considered in physical optics. This simplification is useful in practice; it is an excellent approximation when the wavelength is small compared to the size of structures with which the light interacts. The techniques are particularly useful in describing geometrical aspects of imaging, including optical aberrations.\nExplanation.\nA light ray is a line or curve that is perpendicular to the light's wavefronts (and is therefore collinear with the wave vector).\nA slightly more rigorous definition of a light ray follows from Fermat's principle, which states that the path taken between two points by a ray of light is the path that can be traversed in the least time.\nGeometrical optics is often simplified by making the paraxial approximation, or \"small angle approximation\". The mathematical behavior then becomes linear, allowing optical components and systems to be described by simple matrices. This leads to the techniques of Gaussian optics and \"paraxial ray tracing\", which are used to find basic properties of optical systems, such as approximate image and object positions and magnifications.\nReflection.\nGlossy surfaces such as mirrors reflect light in a simple, predictable way. This allows for production of reflected images that can be associated with an actual (real) or extrapolated (virtual) location in space.\nWith such surfaces, the direction of the reflected ray is determined by the angle the incident ray makes with the surface normal, a line perpendicular to the surface at the point where the ray hits. The incident and reflected rays lie in a single plane, and the angle between the reflected ray and the surface normal is the same as that between the incident ray and the normal. This is known as the Law of Reflection.\nFor flat mirrors, the law of reflection implies that images of objects are upright and the same distance behind the mirror as the objects are in front of the mirror. The image size is the same as the object size. (The magnification of a flat mirror is equal to one.) The law also implies that mirror images are parity inverted, which is perceived as a left-right inversion.\nMirrors with curved surfaces can be modeled by ray tracing and using the law of reflection at each point on the surface. For mirrors with parabolic surfaces, parallel rays incident on the mirror produce reflected rays that converge at a common focus. Other curved surfaces may also focus light, but with aberrations due to the diverging shape causing the focus to be smeared out in space. In particular, spherical mirrors exhibit spherical aberration. Curved mirrors can form images with magnification greater than or less than one, and the image can be upright or inverted. An upright image formed by reflection in a mirror is always virtual, while an inverted image is real and can be projected onto a screen.\nRefraction.\nRefraction occurs when light travels through an area of space that has a changing index of refraction. The simplest case of refraction occurs when there is an interface between a uniform medium with index of refraction formula_1 and another medium with index of refraction formula_2. In such situations, Snell's Law describes the resulting deflection of the light ray:\nformula_3\nwhere formula_4 and formula_5 are the angles between the normal (to the interface) and the incident and refracted waves, respectively. This phenomenon is also associated with a changing speed of light as seen from the definition of index of refraction provided above which implies:\nformula_6\nwhere formula_7 and formula_8 are the wave velocities through the respective media.\nVarious consequences of Snell's Law include the fact that for light rays traveling from a material with a high index of refraction to a material with a low index of refraction, it is possible for the interaction with the interface to result in zero transmission. This phenomenon is called total internal reflection and allows for fiber optics technology. As light signals travel down a fiber optic cable, they undergo total internal reflection allowing for essentially no light lost over the length of the cable. It is also possible to produce polarized light rays using a combination of reflection and refraction: When a refracted ray and the reflected ray form a right angle, the reflected ray has the property of \"plane polarization\". The angle of incidence required for such a scenario is known as Brewster's angle.\nSnell's Law can be used to predict the deflection of light rays as they pass through \"linear media\" as long as the indexes of refraction and the geometry of the media are known. For example, the propagation of light through a prism results in the light ray being deflected depending on the shape and orientation of the prism. Additionally, since different frequencies of light have slightly different indexes of refraction in most materials, refraction can be used to produce dispersion spectra that appear as rainbows. The discovery of this phenomenon when passing light through a prism is famously attributed to Isaac Newton.\nSome media have an index of refraction which varies gradually with position and, thus, light rays curve through the medium rather than travel in straight lines. This effect is what is responsible for mirages seen on hot days where the changing index of refraction of the air causes the light rays to bend creating the appearance of specular reflections in the distance (as if on the surface of a pool of water). Material that has a varying index of refraction is called a gradient-index (GRIN) material and has many useful properties used in modern optical scanning technologies including photocopiers and scanners. The phenomenon is studied in the field of gradient-index optics.\nA device which produces converging or diverging light rays due to refraction is known as a lens. Thin lenses produce focal points on either side that can be modeled using the lensmaker's equation. In general, two types of lenses exist: convex lenses, which cause parallel light rays to converge, and concave lenses, which cause parallel light rays to diverge. The detailed prediction of how images are produced by these lenses can be made using ray-tracing similar to curved mirrors. Similarly to curved mirrors, thin lenses follow a simple equation that determines the location of the images given a particular focal length (formula_9) and object distance \nformula_10\nwhere formula_11 is the distance associated with the image and is considered by convention to be negative if on the same side of the lens as the object and positive if on the opposite side of the lens. The focal length f is considered negative for concave lenses.\nIncoming parallel rays are focused by a convex lens into an inverted real image one focal length from the lens, on the far side of the lens.\nRays from an object at finite distance are focused further from the lens than the focal distance; the closer the object is to the lens, the further the image is from the lens. With concave lenses, incoming parallel rays diverge after going through the lens, in such a way that they seem to have originated at an upright virtual image one focal length from the lens, on the same side of the lens that the parallel rays are approaching on.\nRays from an object at finite distance are associated with a virtual image that is closer to the lens than the focal length, and on the same side of the lens as the object. The closer the object is to the lens, the closer the virtual image is to the lens.\nLikewise, the magnification of a lens is given by\nformula_12\nwhere the negative sign is given, by convention, to indicate an upright object for positive values and an inverted object for negative values. Similar to mirrors, upright images produced by single lenses are virtual while inverted images are real.\nLenses suffer from aberrations that distort images and focal points. These are due to both to geometrical imperfections and due to the changing index of refraction for different wavelengths of light (chromatic aberration).\nUnderlying mathematics.\nAs a mathematical study, geometrical optics emerges as a short-wavelength limit for solutions to hyperbolic partial differential equations (Sommerfeld\u2013Runge method) or as a property of propagation of field discontinuities according to Maxwell's equations (Luneburg method). In this short-wavelength limit, it is possible to approximate the solution locally by\nformula_13\nwhere formula_14 satisfy a dispersion relation, and the amplitude formula_15 varies slowly. More precisely, the leading order solution takes the form\nformula_16\nThe phase formula_17 can be linearized to recover large wavenumber formula_18, and frequency formula_19. The amplitude formula_20 satisfies a transport equation. The small parameter formula_21 enters the scene due to highly oscillatory initial conditions. Thus, when initial conditions oscillate much faster than the coefficients of the differential equation, solutions will be highly oscillatory, and transported along rays. Assuming coefficients in the differential equation are smooth, the rays will be too. In other words, refraction does not take place. The motivation for this technique comes from studying the typical scenario of light propagation where short wavelength light travels along rays that minimize (more or less) its travel time. Its full application requires tools from microlocal analysis.\nSommerfeld\u2013Runge method.\nThe method of obtaining equations of geometrical optics by taking the limit of zero wavelength was first described by Arnold Sommerfeld and J. Runge in 1911. Their derivation was based on an oral remark by Peter Debye. Consider a monochromatic scalar field formula_22, where formula_23 could be any of the components of electric or magnetic field and hence the function formula_24 satisfy the wave equation\nformula_25\nwhere formula_26 with formula_27 being the speed of light in vacuum. Here, formula_28 is the refractive index of the medium. Without loss of generality, let us introduce formula_29 to convert the equation to\nformula_30\nSince the underlying principle of geometrical optics lies in the limit formula_31, the following asymptotic series is assumed,\nformula_32\nFor large but finite value of formula_33, the series diverges, and one has to be careful in keeping only appropriate first few terms. For each value of formula_33, \none can find an optimum number of terms to be kept and adding more terms than the optimum number might result in a poorer approximation. Substituting the series into the equation and collecting terms of different orders, one finds\nformula_35\nin general,\nformula_36\nThe first equation is known as the eikonal equation, which determines the eikonal formula_37 is a Hamilton\u2013Jacobi equation, written for example in Cartesian coordinates becomes\nformula_38\nThe remaining equations determine the functions formula_39.\nLuneburg method.\nThe method of obtaining equations of geometrical optics by analysing surfaces of discontinuities of solutions to Maxwell's equations was first described by Rudolf Karl Luneburg in 1944. It does not restrict the electromagnetic field to have a special form required by the Sommerfeld-Runge method which assumes the amplitude formula_40 and phase formula_37 satisfy the equation formula_42. This condition is satisfied by e.g. plane waves but is not additive.\nThe main conclusion of Luneburg's approach is the following:\nTheorem. Suppose the fields formula_43 and formula_44 (in a linear isotropic medium described by dielectric constants formula_45 and formula_46) have finite discontinuities along a (moving) surface in formula_47 described by the equation Then Maxwell's equations in the integral form imply that formula_23 satisfies the eikonal equation:\nformula_49\nwhere formula_50 is the index of refraction of the medium (Gaussian units).\nAn example of such surface of discontinuity is the initial wave front emanating from a source that starts radiating at a certain instant of time.\nThe surfaces of field discontinuity thus become geometrical optics wave fronts with the corresponding geometrical optics fields defined as:\nformula_51\nThose fields obey transport equations consistent with the transport equations of the Sommerfeld-Runge approach. Light rays in Luneburg's theory are defined as trajectories orthogonal to the discontinuity surfaces and can be shown to obey Fermat's principle of least time thus establishing the identity of those rays with light rays of standard optics.\nThe above developments can be generalised to anisotropic media.\nThe proof of Luneburg's theorem is based on investigating how Maxwell's equations govern the propagation of discontinuities of solutions. The basic technical lemma is as follows:\nA technical lemma. Let formula_52 be a hypersurface (a 3-dimensional manifold) in spacetime formula_53 on which one or more of: formula_43, formula_44, formula_45, formula_46, have a finite discontinuity. Then at each point of the hypersurface the following formulas hold:\nformula_58\nwhere the formula_59 operator acts in the formula_60-space (for every fixed formula_61) and the square brackets denote the difference in values on both sides of the discontinuity surface (set up according to an arbitrary but fixed convention, e.g. the gradient formula_62 pointing in the direction of the quantities being subtracted \"from\").\nSketch of proof. Start with Maxwell's equations away from the sources (Gaussian units):\nformula_63\nUsing Stokes' theorem in formula_53 one can conclude from the first of the above equations that for any domain formula_65 in formula_53 with a piecewise smooth (3-dimensional) boundary formula_67 the following is true:\nformula_68\nwhere formula_69 is the projection of the outward unit normal formula_70 of formula_67 onto the 3D slice formula_72, and formula_73 is the volume 3-form on formula_67. Similarly, one establishes the following from the remaining Maxwell's equations:\nformula_75\nNow by considering arbitrary small sub-surfaces formula_76 of formula_67 and setting up small neighbourhoods surrounding formula_76 in formula_53, and subtracting the above integrals accordingly, one obtains:\nformula_80\nwhere formula_81 denotes the gradient in the 4D formula_82-space. And since formula_76 is arbitrary, the integrands must be equal to 0 which proves the lemma.\nIt's now easy to show that as they propagate through a continuous medium, the discontinuity surfaces obey the eikonal equation. Specifically, if formula_84 and formula_85 are continuous, then the discontinuities of formula_86 and formula_87 satisfy: formula_88 and formula_89. In this case the last two equations of the lemma can be written as:\nformula_90\nTaking the cross product of the second equation with formula_62 and substituting the first yields:\nformula_92\nThe continuity of formula_85 and the second equation of the lemma imply: formula_94, hence, for points lying on the surface formula_95 \"only\":\nformula_96\nBecause of the physical considerations one can assume without loss of generality that formula_97 is of the following form:\nformula_98, i.e. a 2D surface moving through space, modelled as level surfaces of formula_23. (Mathematically formula_23 exists if formula_101 by the implicit function theorem.)\nThe above equation written in terms of formula_23 becomes:\nformula_103\ni.e.,\nformula_104\nwhich is the eikonal equation and it holds for all formula_105, formula_106, formula_107, since the variable formula_61 is absent. Other laws of optics like Snell's law and Fresnel formulae can be similarly obtained by considering discontinuities in formula_84 and formula_85.\nGeneral equation using four-vector notation.\nIn four-vector notation used in special relativity, the wave equation can be written as\nformula_111\nand the substitution formula_112 leads to\nformula_113\nTherefore, the eikonal equation is given by\nformula_114\nOnce eikonal is found by solving the above equation, the wave four-vector can be found from\nformula_115"}
{"id": "731781", "revid": "1416331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731781", "title": "Fort San Geronimo", "text": ""}
{"id": "731782", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731782", "title": "Zhang H\u00f9im\u00e8i", "text": ""}
{"id": "731783", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731783", "title": "Chang Hui-mei", "text": ""}
{"id": "731785", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731785", "title": "Chang Hui-Mei", "text": ""}
{"id": "731786", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731786", "title": "Chang Huimei", "text": ""}
{"id": "731788", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731788", "title": "H\u00e1ngzhou", "text": ""}
{"id": "731791", "revid": "1310484037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731791", "title": "Gamesmanship", "text": "Gamesmanship is the use of dubious (although not technically illegal) methods to win or gain a serious advantage in a game or sport. It has been described as \"pushing the rules to the limit without getting caught, using whatever dubious methods possible to achieve the desired end\". It may be inferred that the term derives from the idea of playing for the game (i.e. to win at any cost) as opposed to sportsmanship, which derives from the idea of playing for sport. The term was popularized by Stephen Potter's humorous 1947 book, \"The Theory and Practice of Gamesmanship (or the Art of Winning Games without Actually Cheating)\". It had, however, been used before by Ian Coster in his autobiographic book \"Friends in Aspic\", published in 1939, where it was attributed to Francis Meynell.\nAlleged origins.\nPotter cites the origin of gamesmanship to be a tennis match in which he and the philosopher C. E. M. Joad competed against two younger and fitter men who were outplaying them fairly comfortably. On returning a serve, Joad hit the ball straight into the back-netting behind the back-line. While the opponents were preparing for the next serve, Joad \"called across the net in an even tone: 'Kindly say clearly, please, whether the ball was in or out. Being young, polite university students, their opponents offered to replay the point, but Joad declined. Because they were young and polite, the slight suggestion by Joad that their etiquette and sportsmanship were in question was extremely off-putting, and distracted them for the rest of the contest. Potter and Joad went on to win the match.\nTechniques.\nCommon techniques of gamesmanship include:\nWhile the first method is more common at higher levels of sports, the last two are more powerful in amateur games.\nBreaking the flow.\nExamples of \"flow-breaking\" methods include:\nCausing the opponent to overthink.\nExamples of methods designed to cause the opponent to overthink or to not take the game seriously enough include:\nIntentional \"mistakes\".\nExamples of intentional \"mistakes\" designed to gain an advantage:\nAll of the above are considered very close to cheating, and the abuser of gamesmanship techniques will find himself penalized in most serious sports and games tournaments, as well as being deemed (if caught) a \"bad sport\".\nThe rules of the International Defensive Pistol Association for its practical shooting matches specifically state that any illegal action taken with the intent of gaining a competitive advantage is penalized as a \"Failure to Do Right\", adding 20\u00a0seconds to the competitor's time. This penalty is rarely given, partly because of its highly subjective nature.\nAssociation football.\nIn association football, it is considered good sportsmanship to kick the ball out of play if a player on the opposing side is injured; when the ball is to be thrown in, it is also considered to be good sportsmanship in this situation to kick it (or throw it) back to the other team who had intentionally kicked it out. Gamesmanship arises in this situation when, rather than passing the ball back to the side who kicked the ball out, the injured player's teammates keep the ball after the throw-in. Whilst not illegal or against the rules of the sport, it is heavily frowned upon.\nA high-profile example occurred during the game between Portugal and the Netherlands in the round of 16 of the 2006 FIFA World Cup, where the game, already marred by numerous cautions and four red cards, further deteriorated because of such an incident. Also, in a 1998\u201399 FA Cup fifth round match between Arsenal and Sheffield United, Arsenal's winning goal scored under these circumstances (although as a result of a misunderstanding rather than a deliberate action) was so contentious the Arsenal manager Ars\u00e8ne Wenger offered to replay the match. Sheffield United accepted, though Arsenal went on to win the second game by the same score, 2\u20131.\nFeigning injury to cause the ball to be kicked out is another example of gamesmanship intended to break the flow of play, though if detected, it may be regarded as unsportsmanlike conduct, which is a breach of the laws and hence is no longer gamesmanship. In response to claims of feigned injuries during the 2006 World Cup, the Premier League asked players, managers and referees to end the custom as of the 2006\u201307 season, instead preferring a referee alone to determine whether a break in play is needed.\nWhen a free kick is awarded, members of the defending team will often pick up the ball and drop it back behind them as they retreat. Whilst not throwing the ball away, which would be an infringement, the purpose is to prevent a swiftly taken free kick.\nSome goalkeepers are known to use gamesmanship in an attempt to gain an advantage on penalty kicks. This was particularly notable in the 2022 World Cup final, where Argentine goalkeeper Emi Martinez employed gamesmanship while French goalkeeper Hugo Lloris did not, the latter later stating \"There are some things I can't do... rattling my opponents, crossing that line... I'm too rational and honest a man to go that way.\"\nUsage outside of games.\nThe term \"gamesmanship\" is also used for similar techniques used in non-game situations, such as negotiations and elections.\nEach form is frequently used as a means of describing dubious methods of winning and/or psychological tricks used to intimidate or confuse one's opponent. Technically speaking, these tactics are one-upmanship, defined in a later book by Potter as the art of being one-up on somebody else.\nThe term also appears in art theory to mean playfulness, as in \"literary gamesmanship\".\nThe gamesman versus the pure player.\nPotter's double-edged ironies did not spare the gamesman himself (he slyly named one prominent protagonist 'Bzo, U., holder (1947) Yugo-Slav Gamesmanship Championship', for example). Potter acknowledged repeatedly that \"the way of the gamesman is hard, his training strict, his progress slow, his disappointments many\", and recognised that as a result \"the assiduous student of gamesmanship has little time for the \"minutiae\" of the game itself \u2013 little opportunity for learning how to play the shots, for instance\". Yet one of his \"correspondents\" owlishly admits, \"there is no doubt that a knowledge of the game itself sometimes helps the gamesman\".\nHence \"perhaps the most difficult type for the gamesman to play is the man who indulges in pure play. He gets down to it, he gets on with it, he plays each shot according to its merits, and his own powers, without a trace of exhibitionism, and no by-play whatever\". The book gloomily concludes, \"we amateurs have to fight against the growing menace of young people who insist on playing their various games for the fun of the thing...indulging rather too freely, if the truth were known, in pure play\"."}
{"id": "731793", "revid": "7098284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731793", "title": "Cilappatikaram", "text": "Cilappatik\u0101ram (IPA: \u02a7il\u0259pp\u0259t\u032aik\u0251\u02d0r\u0259m, \"lit.\" \"the Tale of an Anklet\"), also referred to as Silappathikaram or Silappatikaram, is the earliest Tamil epic. It is a poem of 5,730 lines in almost entirely \"akaval\" (\"aciriyam\") meter. The epic is a tragic love story of an ordinary couple, Ka\u1e47\u1e47aki and her husband K\u014dvala\u1e49. The \"Cilappatik\u0101ram\" has more ancient roots in the Tamil bardic tradition, as Kannaki and other characters of the story are mentioned or alluded to in the Sangam literature such as in the \"Nat\u1e5fi\u1e47ai\" and later texts such as the \"Kovalam Katai\". It is attributed to a prince-turned-jain-monk I\u1e37a\u1e45k\u014d A\u1e6dika\u1e37, and was probably composed in the 5th century CE (although estimates range from 2nd to 6th century CE).\nThe \"Cilappatik\u0101ram\" is an ancient literary masterpiece. It is to the Tamil culture what the \"Iliad\" is to the Greek culture, states R. Parthasarathy. It blends the themes, mythologies and theological values found in the Jain, Buddhist and Hindu religious traditions. It is a Tamil story of love and rejection, happiness and pain, good and evil like all classic epics of the world. Yet unlike other epics that deal with kings and armies caught up with universal questions and existential wars, the \"Cilappatik\u0101ram\" is an epic about an ordinary couple caught up with universal questions and internal, emotional war. The \"Cilappatikaram\" legend has been a part of the Tamil oral tradition. The palm-leaf manuscripts of the original epic poem, along with those of the Sangam literature, were rediscovered in monasteries in the second half of the 19th century by UV Swaminatha Aiyar \u2013 a pandit and Tamil scholar. After being preserved and copied in temples and monasteries in the form of palm-leaf manuscripts, Aiyar published its first partial edition on paper in 1872, the full edition in 1892. Since then the epic poem has been translated into many languages including English.\nPlot.\nThe \"Cilappatik\u0101ram\" is set in a flourishing seaport city of the early Chola kingdom. Ka\u1e47\u1e47aki and K\u014dvala\u1e49 are a newly married couple, in love, and living in bliss. Over time, K\u014dvala\u1e49 meets M\u0101tavi (M\u0101dhavi) \u2013 a courtesan. He falls for her, leaves Ka\u1e47\u1e47aki and moves in with M\u0101tavi. He spends lavishly on her. Ka\u1e47\u1e47aki is heartbroken, but as the chaste woman, she waits despite her husband's unfaithfulness. During the festival for Indra, the rain god, there is a singing competition. K\u014dvala\u1e49 sings a poem about a woman who hurt her lover. M\u0101tavi then sings a song about a man who betrayed his lover. Each interprets the song as a message to the other. K\u014dvala\u1e49 feels M\u0101tavi is unfaithful to him and leaves her. Ka\u1e47\u1e47aki is still waiting for him. She takes him back.\nKannagi and K\u014dvala\u1e49 leave the city and travel to Madurai, the capital of the Pandya kingdom. K\u014dvala\u1e49 is penniless and destitute. He confesses his deceit to Kannagi. She forgives him and tells him the hurt his adultery caused her. Then she encourages her husband to rebuild their life together and gives him one of her jeweled anklets to sell to raise starting capital. K\u014dvala\u1e49 sells it to a merchant, but the merchant falsely frames him as having stolen the anklet from the queen. The king arrests K\u014dvala\u1e49 and then executes him, without the due checks and processes of justice. When K\u014dvala\u1e49 does not return home, Kannagi goes searching for him. She learns what has happened. She protests the injustice and then proves K\u014dvala\u1e49's innocence by throwing in the court the other jeweled anklet of the pair. The king accepts his folly. Kannagi curses the king and the people of Madurai, tearing off her breast and throwing it at the gathered public. The king dies. The society that had made her suffer, suffers in retribution as the city of Madurai is burnt to the ground because of her curse.\nIn the third section of the epic, gods and goddesses meet Kannagi at Cheranadu and she goes to heaven with the god Indra. The King Cheran Chenkuttuvan and royal family of the Chera kingdom (Today Kerala) learn about her and resolve to build a temple with Kannagi as the featured goddess. They go to the Himalayas, bring a stone, carve her image, call her goddess \"Pattini\", dedicate a temple, order daily prayers, and perform a royal sacrifice.\nNomenclature.\nAccording to V R Ramachandra Dikshitar, the title \"Silappatik\u0101ram\" \u2013\u00a0also spelled \"Silappadikaram\" \u2013 is a combination of two words, \"silambu\" (anklet) and \"adikaram\" (the story about). It therefore connotes a \"story that centers around an anklet\". The content and context around that center is elaborate, with Atiyarkkunallar describing it as an epic story told with poetry, music, and drama.\nAuthor.\nThe Tamil tradition attributes \"Cilappatikaram\" to the I\u1e37a\u1e45k\u014d A\u1e6dika\u1e37 (\"the venerable ascetic prince\"), also spelled Ilango Adigal. He is reputed to have been a Jain Monk and the brother of Chera king Chenkuttuvan, whose family and rule are described in the Fifth Ten of the \"Pati\u1e5f\u1e5fuppattu\", a poem of the Sangam literature. In it or elsewhere, however, there is no evidence that the famous king had a brother. V. Kanakasabhai opined that Ilango was a monk of a nirgrantha sect of Jain. The Sangam poems never mention Ilango Adigal, the epic or the name of any other author for the epic. The Ilango Adigal name appears in a much later dated \"patikam\" (prologue) attached to the poem, and the authenticity of this attribution is doubtful. According to Gananath Obeyesekere, the story of the purported \"Cilappadikaram\" author Ilango Adigal as the brother of a famous Chera king \"must be later interpolations\", something that was a characteristic feature of early literature.\nThe mythical third section about gods meeting Kannaki after Kovalan's death, in the last Canto, mentions a legend about a prince turned into a monk. This has been conflated as the story of the attributed author as a witness. However, little factual details about the real author(s) or evidence exist. Given the fact that older Tamil texts mention and allude to the Kannaki's tragic love story, states Parthasarathy, the author was possibly just a redactor of the oral tradition and the epic poem was not a product of his creative genius. The author was possibly a Jaina scholar, as in several parts of the epic, the key characters of the epic meet a Jaina monk or nun. The epic's praise of the Vedas, Brahmins, inclusion of temples, Hindu gods and goddesses and ritual worship give the text a cosmopolitan character, and to some scholars' evidence to propose that author was not necessarily a Jaina ascetic.\nAccording to Ramachandra Dikshitar, the ascetic-prince legend about Ilango Adigal as included in the last canto of \"Cilappadikaram\" is odd. In the epic, Ilango Adigal attends a Vedic sacrifice with the Chera king Cenkuttuvan after the king brings back the Himalayan stone to make a statue of Kannaki. If the author Ilango Adigal was a Jain ascetic and given our understanding of Jainism's historic view on the Vedas and Vedic sacrifices, why would he attend a function like the Vedic sacrifice, states Ramachandra Dikshitar. This, and the fact that the epic comfortably praises Shaiva and Vaishnava lifestyle, festivals, gods and goddesses, has led some scholars to propose that author of this epic was a Hindu.\nIlango Adigal has been suggested to be a contemporary of Sattanar, the author of \"Ma\u1e47im\u0113kalai\". However, evidence for such suggestions has been lacking.\nDate.\nIn the modern era, some Tamil scholars have linked the Ilango Adigal legend about his being the brother of king Cenkuttuvan, as a means to date this text. A Chera king Cenkuttuvan is tentatively placed in the 100\u2013250 CE, and the traditionalists, therefore, place the text to the same period. In 1939, for example, the Tamil literature scholar Ramachandra Dikshitar presented a number of events mentioned within the text and thereby derived that the text was composed about 171 CE. According to Dhandayudham, the epic should be dated to between the 3rd and 5th century. Ramachandra Dikshitar analysis that the epic was composed before the Pallava dynasty emerged as a major power in the 6th-century is accepted by most scholars, because there is no mention of the highly influential Pallavas in the epic. His chronological estimate of 171 CE for \"Cilappadikaram\" cannot be far from the real date of composition, states Alain Dani\u00e9lou \u2013 a French Indologist who translated the \"Cilappadikaram\" in 1965. Dani\u00e9lou states that the epic \u2013 along with the other four Tamil epics \u2013 were all composed sometime between the last part of the Sangam and the subsequent centuries, that is \"3rd to 7th-century\".\nOther scholars, such as Kamil Zvelebil \u2013\u00a0a Tamil literature and history scholar, state that the legends in the epic itself are a weak foundation for dating the text. A stronger foundation is the linguistics, events and other sociological details in the text when compared to those in other Tamil literature, new words and grammatical forms, and the number of non-Tamil loan words in the text. The Sangam era texts of the 100\u2013250 CE period are strikingly different in style, language structure, the beliefs, the ideologies, and the customs portrayed in the \"Cilappatik\u0101ram\", which makes the early dating implausible. Further, the epic's style, structure and other details are quite similar to the texts composed centuries later. These point to a much later date. According to Zvelebil, the \"Cilappatik\u0101ram\" that has survived into the modern era \"cannot have been composed before the 5th- to 6th-century\".\nAccording to other scholars, such as Iyengar, the first two sections of the epic were likely the original epic, and third mythical section after the destruction of Madurai is likely a later extrapolation, an addendum that introduces a mix of Jaina, Hindu and Buddhist stories and practices, including the legend about the ascetic prince. The hero (K\u014dvala\u1e49) is long dead, and the heroine (Ka\u1e47\u1e47aki) follows him shortly thereafter into heaven, as represented in the early verses of the third section. This part adds nothing to the story, is independent, is likely to be of a much later century.\nOther scholars, including Zvelebil, state that this need not necessarily be so. The third section covers the third of three major kingdoms of the ancient Tamil region, the first section covered the Cholas and the second the Pandya. Further, states Zvelebil, the deification of Ka\u1e47\u1e47aki keeps her theme active and is consistent with the Tamil and the Indian tradition of merging a legend into its ideas of rebirth and endless existence. The language, and style of the third section is \"perfectly homogeneous\" with the first two, it does not seem to be the work of multiple authors, and therefore the entire epic should be considered a complete masterpiece. Fred Hardy, in contrast, states that some sections have clearly and cleverly been interpolated into the main epic, and these additions may be of 7th- to 8th century. Dani\u00e9lou concurs that the epic may have been \"slightly\" reshaped and enlarged in the centuries after the original epic was composed, but the epic as it has survived into the modern age is quite homogeneous and lacks evidence of additions by multiple authors.\nIravatham Mahadevan states that the mention of a weekday (Friday) in the text and the negative portrayal of a Pandya king narrows the probable date of composition to between 450 and 550 CE. This is because the concept of weekdays did not exist in India until the 5th century CE, and the Pandya dynasty only regained power in 550 CE, thus meaning that Jains could freely criticise them without any threat to their lives.\nContents.\nStructure of \"Cilappatikaram\".\nThe \"Cilappatikaram\" is divided into three \"kantams\" (book, Skt: \"khanda\"), which are further subdivided into \"katais\" (cantos, Skt: \"katha\"). The three \"kantams\" are named after the capitals of the three major early Tamil kingdoms:\nThe \"katais\" range between 53 and 272 lines each. In addition to the 25 cantos, the epic has 5 song cycles:\nStory.\nThe \"Cilappatikaram\" is set in a flourishing seaport city of the early Chola kingdom. Kannaki and Kovalan are a newly married couple, in love, and living in bliss. Over time, Kovalan meets Matavi (Madhavi) \u2013 a courtesan. He falls for her, leaves Kannaki and moves in with Matavi. He spends lavishly on her. Kannaki is heartbroken, but as the chaste woman, she waits despite her husband's unfaithfulness. During the festival for Indra, the rain god, there is a singing competition. Kovalan sings a poem about a woman who hurt her lover. Matavi then sings a song about a man who betrayed his lover. Each interprets the song as a message to the other. Kovalan feels Matavi is unfaithful to him and leaves her. Kannaki is still waiting for him. She takes him back.\nKannaki and Kovalan leave the city and travel to Madurai of the Pandya kingdom. Kovalan is penniless and destitute. He confesses his mistakes to Kannaki. She forgives him and tells him the pain his unfaithfulness gave her. Then she encourages her husband to rebuild their life together and gives him one of her jeweled anklets to sell to raise starting capital. Kovalan sells it to a merchant, but the merchant falsely frames him as having stolen the anklet from the queen. The king arrests Kovalan and then executes him, without the due checks and processes of justice. When Kovalan does not return home, Kannaki goes searching for him. She learns what has happened. She protests the injustice and then proves Kovalan's innocence by throwing in the court the other jeweled anklet of the pair. The king accepts his mistake. Kannaki curses the king and curses the people of Madurai, tearing off her breast and throwing it at the gathered public, triggering the flames of a citywide inferno. The remorseful king dies in shock. Madurai is burnt to the ground because of her curse. The violence of the Kannaki fire kills everyone, except \"only Brahmins, good men, cows, truthful women, cripples, old men and children\", states Zvelebil.\nKannaki leaves Madurai and heads into the mountainous region of the Chera kingdom. Gods and goddesses meet Kannaki, the king of gods Indra himself comes with his chariot, and Kannaki goes to heaven with Indra. The royal family of the Chera kingdom learns about her, resolves to build a temple with Kannaki as the featured goddess. They go to the Himalayas, bring a stone, carve her image, call her goddess \"Pattini\", dedicate a temple, order daily prayers, and perform a royal sacrifice.\nLiterary value and significance.\nThe manuscripts of the epic include a prologue called \"patikam\". This is likely a later addition to the older epic. It, nevertheless, shows the literary value of the epic to later Tamil generations:\nTwenty-five cantos of the Cilappatikaram are set in the akaval meter, a meter found in the more ancient Tamil Sangam literature. It has verses in other meters and contains five songs also in a different meter. These features suggest that the epic was performed in the form of stage drama that mixed recitation of cantos with the singing of songs. The 30 cantos were reciting as monologues.\nSanskrit epics.\nThe Tamil epic has many references and allusions to the Sanskrit epics and puranic legends. For example, it describes the fate of Poompuhar suffering the same agony as experienced by Ayodhya when Rama leaves for exile to the forest as instructed by his father. The \"Aycciyarkuravai\" section (canto 27), makes mention of the Lord who could measure the three worlds, going to the forest with his brother, waging a war against Lanka and destroying it with fire. These references indicate that the \"Ramayana\" was known to the \"Cilappatikaram\" audience many centuries before the Kamba Ramayanam of the 12th century CE.\nThe 17th canto of the epic explains the Beauty and greatness of Lord Vishnu with respect to his forms and Various incarnations. Vishnu was the deity most mentioned in Tamil Sangam literature and is said to be one of the favourite gods of the people who lived in the Sangam time. The epic states that \"Vain are the ears which do not hear the glory of Rama who is Vishnu, Vain are the eyes which do not see the dark hued Lord, the great God, the Mayavan Vishnu, Vain is the tongue that will not praise him who triumphed over the deceit of the foolish schemer Kamsa (Krishna), Vain is the tongue which does not say \u2018Narayana\u2019.\nAccording to Zvelebil, the \"Cilappatikaram\" mentions the \"Mahabharata\" and calls it the \"great war\", just like the story was familiar to the Sangam era poets too as evidenced in Puram 2 and Akam 233. One of the poets is nicknamed as \"The Peruntevanar who sang the Bharatam [Mahabharatam]\", once again confirming that the Tamil poets by the time \"Cilappatikaram\" was composed were intimately aware of the Sanskrit epics, the literary structure and significance of \"Mahakavyas\" genre. To be recognized as an accomplished extraordinary poet, one must compose a great \"kavya\" has been the Tamil scholarly opinion prior to the modern era, states Zvelebil. These were popular and episodes from such \"maha-kavya\" were performed as a form of dance-drama in public. The \"Cilappatikaram\" is a Tamil epic that belongs to the pan-India \"kavya\" epic tradition. The Tamil tradition and medieval commentators such as Mayilaintar have included the \"Cilappatikaram\" as one of the \"aimperunkappiyankal\", which literally means \"five great kavyas\".\nAccording to D. Dennis Hudson \u2013 a World Religions and Tamil literature scholar, the \"Cilappatikaram\" is the earliest and first complete Tamil reference to Pillai (Nila, Nappinnai, Radha), who is described in the epic as the cowherd lover of Krishna. The epic includes abundant stories and allusions to Krishna and his stories, which are also found in ancient Sanskrit Puranas. In the canto where Kannaki is waiting for Kovalan to return after selling her anklet to a Madurai merchant, she is in a village with cowgirls. These cowherd girls enact a dance, where one plays Mayavan (Krishna), another girl plays Tammunon (Balarama), while a third plays Pinnai (Radha). The dance begins with a song listing Krishna's heroic deeds and his fondness for Radha, then they dance where sage Narada plays music. Such scenes where cowgirls imitate Krishna's life story are also found in Sanskrit poems of \"Harivamsa\" and \"Vishnu Purana\", both generally dated to be older than \"Cilappatikaram\". The Tamil epic calls portions of it as \"v\u0101la caritai n\u0101\u1e6da\u1e45ka\u1e37\", which mirrors the phrase \"balacarita nataka\" \u2013 dramas about the story of the child [Krishna]\" \u2013 in the more ancient Sanskrit \"kavyas\". According to the Indologist Friedhelm Hardy, this canto and others in the Tamil epic reflect a culture where \"Dravidian, Tamil, Sanskrit, Brahmin, Buddhist, Jain and many other influences\" had already fused into a composite whole in the South Indian social consciousness.\nAccording to Zvelebil, the \"Cilappadikaram\" is the \"first literary expression and the first ripe fruit of the Aryan-Dravidian synthesis in Tamilnadu\".\nTamil nationalism.\nIn early 20th-century, the \"Cilappadikaram\" became a rallying basis for some Tamil nationalists based in Sri Lanka and colonial-era Madras Presidency. The epic is considered as the \"first consciously national work\" and evidence of the fact that the \"Tamils had by that time [mid 1st-millennium CE] attained nationhood\", or the first expression of a sense of Tamil cultural integrity and Tamil dominance. This view is shared by some modernist Tamil playwrights, movie makers, and politicians. According to Norman Cutler, this theme runs in recent works such as the 1962 re-rendering of the \"Cilappadikaram\" into \"Kannakip Puratcikkappiyam\" by Paratitacan, and the 1967 play \"Cilappatikaram: Natakak Kappiyam\" by M. Karunanidhi \u2013\u00a0an influential politician and a former Chief Minister behind the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Dravidian movement. These versions, some by avowed atheists, have retold the \"Cilappadikaram\" epic \"to propagate their ideas of [Tamil] cultural identity\", along with a hostility to \"the North, the racially different Aryans, the Brahmins\", and the so-called \"alien culture\", according to Prabha Rani and Vaidyanathan Shivkumar.\nThe Tamil nationalistic inspiration derived from the \"Cilappadikaram\" is a selective reading and appropriation of the great epic, according to Cutler. It cherrypicks and brackets some rhetorical and ideological elements from the epic but ignores the rest that make the epic into a complete masterpiece. In the third book of the epic, the Tamil king Cenkuttuvan defeats his fellow Tamil kings and then invades and conquers the Deccan and the north Indian kingdoms. Yet, states Cutler, the same book places an \"undeniable prestige\" for a \"rock from the Himalayas\", the \"river Ganges\" and other symbols from the north to honor Kannaki. Similarly, the Pandyan and the Chera king in various \"katais\", as well as the three key characters of the epic (Kannaki, Kovalan and Madhavi) in other \"katais\" of the \"Cilappadikaram\" pray in Hindu temples dedicated to Shiva, Murugan, Vishnu, Krishna, Balarama, Indra, Korravai (Parvati), Saraswati, Lakshmi, and others. The Tamil kings are described in the epic as performing Vedic sacrifices and rituals, where Agni and Varuna are invoked, and the Vedas are chanted. These and numerous other details in the epic were neither of Dravidian roots nor icons, rather they reflect an acceptance of and reverence for certain shared pan-Indian cultural rituals, symbols and values, what Himalayas and Ganges signify to the Indic culture. The epic rhetorically does present a vision of a Tamil imperium, yet it also \"emphatically is not exclusively Tamil\", states Cutler.\nAccording to V R Ramachandra Dikshitar, the epic provides no evidence of sectarian conflict between the Indian religious traditions. In \"Cilappadikaram\", the key characters pray and participate in both Shaiva and Vaishnava rituals, temples and festivals. In addition, they give help and get help from the Jains and the Ajivikas. There are Buddhist references too in the \"Cilappadikaram\" such as about Mahabodhi, but these are very few \u2013\u00a0unlike the other Tamil epic \"Ma\u1e47im\u0113kalai\". Yet, all these references are embedded in a cordial community, where all share the same ideas and belief in \"karma\" and related premises. The major festivals described in the epic are pan-Indian and these festivals are also found in ancient Sanskrit literature.\nPreservation.\nU. V. Swaminatha Iyer (1855-1942 CE), a Shaiva Hindu and Tamil scholar, rediscovered palm-leaf manuscripts of the poem, along with those of the Sangam literature, in Hindu monasteries near Kumbakonam. These manuscripts were preserved and copied in temples and monasteries over the centuries, as palm-leaf manuscripts degrade in the tropical climate. This rediscovery in the second half of the 19th-century and the consequent publication brought \"Cilappatikaram \" to readers and scholars outside the temples. This helped trigger an interest in ancient Tamil literature. Aiyar published its first partial edition in 1872, the full edition in 1892. Since then, the epic poem has been translated into many languages.\nS Ramanathan (1917-1988 CE) has published articles on the musical aspects of the \"Silappadikaram\".\nReception.\nTo some critics, \"Ma\u1e47im\u0113kalai\" is more interesting than \"Cilappadikaram\", but in terms of literary evaluation, it seems inferior. According to Panicker, there are effusions in \"Cilappadikaram\" in the form of a song or a dance, which does not go well with western audience as they are assessed to be inspired on the spur of the moment. According to a Calcutta review, the three-epic works on a whole have no plot and no characterization to qualify for an epic genre.\nA review by George L. Hart, a professor of Tamil language at the University of California, Berkeley, \"the Silappatikaram is to Tamil what the Iliad and Odyssey are to Greek \u2014 its importance would be difficult to overstate.\"\nTranslations.\nThe first English translation of \"Cilappadikaram\" was published in 1939 by V R Ramachandra Dikshitar (Oxford University Press). In 1965, an English translation of the epic was published by Alain Dani\u00e9lou. R. Parthasarathy's English translation was published in 1993 by Columbia University Press and reprinted in 2004 by Penguin Books. Paula Saffire of Butler University state that Parthasarathy's translation is \"indispensable\" and more suited for scholarly studies due to its accuracy, while Dani\u00e9lou's translation was more suited to those seeking the epic's spirit and an easier to enjoy poem.\nThe Parthasarathy translation won the 1996 A.K. Ramanujan Book Prize for Translation.\nThe epic has been translated into French by the same Alain Dani\u00e9lou and RN Desikan in 1961 (before his English translation), into Czech by Kamil Zvelebil in 1965, and into Russian by JJ Glazov in 1966.\nRewritings.\nVeteran Tamil writer Jeyamohan rewrote the whole epic into a novel as Kotravai in 2005. The novel having adapted the original plot and characters, it revolves around the ancient South Indian traditions, also trying to fill the gaps in the history using multiple narratives. H. S. Shivaprakash a leading poet and playwright in Kannada has also re-narrated a part from the epic namely \"Madurekanda\". It has also been re-narrated in Hindi by famous Hindi writer Amritlal Nagar in his novel Suhag Ke Nupur which was published in 1960. He had also written a 1.25-hour radio-play on the story which was broadcast on Aakashvani in 1952.\nIn popular culture.\nThere have been multiple movies based on the story of Cilappathikaram and the most famous is the portrayal of Kannagi by actress Kannamba in the 1942 movie Kannagi. P. U. Chinnappa played the lead as Kovalan. The movie faithfully follows the story of Cilappathikaram and was a hit when it was released. The movie Poompuhar, penned by M. Karunanidhi is also based on Cilapathikaram. There are multiple dance dramas as well by some of the great exponents of Bharatanatyam in Tamil as most of the verses of Cilappathikaram can be set to music.\nCilappatikaram also occupies much of the screen time in the 15th and 16th episodes of the television series Bharat Ek Khoj. Pallavi Joshi played the role of Kannagi and Rakesh Dhar played that of Kovalan.\nIndian Railways launched a new train named after the poem, the Silambu Express, between Chennai and Manamadurai in 2013."}
{"id": "731794", "revid": "129927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731794", "title": "Open Court Publishing Company", "text": "The Open Court Publishing Company is a publisher with offices in Chicago and LaSalle, Illinois. It is part of the Carus Publishing Company of Peru, Illinois.\nHistory.\nOpen Court was founded in 1887 by Edward C. Hegeler of the Matthiessen-Hegeler Zinc Company, at one time the largest producer of zinc in the United States. Hegeler intended for the firm to serve the purpose of discussing religious and psychological problems on the principle that the scientific world-conception should be applied to religion. Its first managing editor was Paul Carus, Hegeler's son-in-law through his marriage to engineer Mary Hegeler Carus. For the first 80 years of its existence, the company had its offices in the Hegeler Carus Mansion.\nOpen Court specializes in philosophy, science, and religion. It was one of the first academic presses in the country, as well as one of the first publishers of inexpensive editions of the classics. It also published the journals \"Open Court\" and \"The Monist\"\u2014 the latter is still being published. The Open Court Monthly Magazine's motto was \"Devoted to the Science of Religion, the Religion of Science, and the Extension of the Religious Parliament Idea.\"\n\"The Open Court\".\nThe journal \"The Open Court\" was founded in February 1887 as the official publication of the Free Religious Association. By the end of 1887, its editor Benjamin F. Underwood resigned and Paul Carus became editor. The Open Court Publishing Company published \"The Open Court\" until 1936. Carus edited the journal for 32 years, until his death.\n\"Popular Culture &amp; Philosophy\" series.\nOne of Open Court Publishing's best-selling series is its semi-annual \"Popular Culture &amp; Philosophy\" series, under the editorship of George Reisch. Volumes on the philosophy underpinning such television shows as \"\", \"Seinfeld\", \"The Simpsons,\" and \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" propelled the series into the limelight."}
{"id": "731795", "revid": "50404874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731795", "title": "Cloud physics", "text": "Cloud physics is the study of the physical processes that lead to the formation, growth and precipitation of atmospheric clouds. These aerosols are found in the troposphere, stratosphere, and mesosphere, which collectively make up the greatest part of the homosphere. Clouds consist of microscopic droplets of liquid water (warm clouds), tiny crystals of ice (cold clouds), or both (mixed phase clouds), along with microscopic particles of dust, smoke, or other matter, known as condensation nuclei. Cloud droplets initially form by the condensation of water vapor onto condensation nuclei when the supersaturation of air exceeds a critical value according to K\u00f6hler theory. Cloud condensation nuclei are necessary for cloud droplets formation because of the Kelvin effect, which describes the change in saturation vapor pressure due to a curved surface. At small radii, the amount of supersaturation needed for condensation to occur is so large, that it does not happen naturally. Raoult's law describes how the vapor pressure is dependent on the amount of solute in a solution. At high concentrations, when the cloud droplets are small, the supersaturation required is smaller than without the presence of a nucleus.\nIn warm clouds, larger cloud droplets fall at a higher terminal velocity; because at a given velocity, the drag force per unit of droplet weight on smaller droplets is larger than on large droplets. The large droplets can then collide with small droplets and combine to form even larger drops. When the drops become large enough that their downward velocity (relative to the surrounding air) is greater than the upward velocity (relative to the ground) of the surrounding air, the drops can fall as precipitation. The collision and coalescence is not as important in mixed phase clouds where the Bergeron process dominates. Other important processes that form precipitation are riming, when a supercooled liquid drop collides with a solid snowflake, and aggregation, when two solid snowflakes collide and combine. The precise mechanics of how a cloud forms and grows is not completely understood, but scientists have developed theories explaining the structure of clouds by studying the microphysics of individual droplets. Advances in weather radar and satellite technology have also allowed the precise study of clouds on a large scale.\nHistory of cloud physics.\nModern cloud physics began in the 19th century and was described in several publications. Otto von Guericke originated the idea that clouds were composed of water bubbles. In 1847 Augustus Waller used spider web to examine droplets under the microscope. These observations were confirmed by William Henry Dines in 1880 and Richard Assmann in 1884.\nCloud formation.\nCooling air to its dew point.\nAdiabatic cooling.\nAs water evaporates from an area of Earth's surface, the air over that area becomes moist. Moist air is lighter than the surrounding dry air, creating an unstable situation. When enough moist air has accumulated, all the moist air rises as a single packet, without mixing with the surrounding air. As more moist air forms along the surface, the process repeats, resulting in a series of discrete packets of moist air rising to form clouds.\nThis process occurs when one or more of three possible lifting agents\u2014cyclonic/frontal, convective, or orographic\u2014causes air containing invisible water vapor to rise and cool to its dew point, the temperature at which the air becomes saturated. The main mechanism behind this process is adiabatic cooling. Atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, so the rising air expands in a process that expends energy and causes the air to cool, which makes water vapor condense into cloud. Water vapor in saturated air is normally attracted to condensation nuclei such as dust and salt particles that are small enough to be held aloft by normal circulation of the air. The water droplets in a cloud have a normal radius of about 0.002\u00a0mm (0.00008\u00a0in). The droplets may collide to form larger droplets, which remain aloft as long as the velocity of the rising air within the cloud is equal to or greater than the terminal velocity of the droplets.\nFor non-convective cloud, the altitude at which condensation begins to happen is called the lifted condensation level (LCL), which roughly determines the height of the cloud base. Free convective clouds generally form at the altitude of the convective condensation level (CCL). Water vapor in saturated air is normally attracted to condensation nuclei such as salt particles that are small enough to be held aloft by normal circulation of the air. If the condensation process occurs below the freezing level in the troposphere, the nuclei help transform the vapor into very small water droplets. Clouds that form just above the freezing level are composed mostly of supercooled liquid droplets, while those that condense out at higher altitudes where the air is much colder generally take the form of ice crystals. An absence of sufficient condensation particles at and above the condensation level causes the rising air to become supersaturated and the formation of cloud tends to be inhibited.\nFrontal and cyclonic lift.\nFrontal and cyclonic lift occur in their purest manifestations when stable air, which has been subjected to little or no surface heating, is forced aloft at weather fronts and around centers of low pressure. Warm fronts associated with extratropical cyclones tend to generate mostly cirriform and stratiform clouds over a wide area unless the approaching warm airmass is unstable, in which case cumulus congestus or cumulonimbus clouds will usually be embedded in the main precipitating cloud layer. Cold fronts are usually faster moving and generate a narrower line of clouds which are mostly stratocumuliform, cumuliform, or cumulonimbiform depending on the stability of the warm air mass just ahead of the front.\nConvective lift.\nAnother agent is the buoyant convective upward motion caused by significant daytime solar heating at surface level, or by relatively high absolute humidity. Incoming short-wave radiation generated by the sun is re-emitted as long-wave radiation when it reaches Earth's surface. This process warms the air closest to ground and increases air mass instability by creating a steeper temperature gradient from warm or hot at surface level to cold aloft. This causes it to rise and cool until temperature equilibrium is achieved with the surrounding air aloft. Moderate instability allows for the formation of cumuliform clouds of moderate size that can produce light showers if the airmass is sufficiently moist. Typical convection upcurrents may allow the droplets to grow to a radius of about before precipitating as showers. The equivalent diameter of these droplets is about .\nIf air near the surface becomes extremely warm and unstable, its upward motion can become quite explosive, resulting in towering cumulonimbiform clouds that can cause severe weather. As tiny water particles that make up the cloud group together to form droplets of rain, they are pulled down to earth by the force of gravity. The droplets would normally evaporate below the condensation level, but strong updrafts buffer the falling droplets, and can keep them aloft much longer than they would otherwise. Violent updrafts can reach speeds of up to . The longer the rain droplets remain aloft, the more time they have to grow into larger droplets that eventually fall as heavy showers.\nRain droplets that are carried well above the freezing level become supercooled at first then freeze into small hail. A frozen ice nucleus can pick up in size traveling through one of these updrafts and can cycle through several updrafts and downdrafts before finally becoming so heavy that it falls to the ground as large hail. Cutting a hailstone in half shows onion-like layers of ice, indicating distinct times when it passed through a layer of super-cooled water. Hailstones have been found with diameters of up to .\nConvective lift can occur in an unstable air mass well away from any fronts. However, very warm unstable air can also be present around fronts and low-pressure centers, often producing cumuliform and cumulonimbiform clouds in heavier and more active concentrations because of the combined frontal and convective lifting agents. As with non-frontal convective lift, increasing instability promotes upward vertical cloud growth and raises the potential for severe weather. On comparatively rare occasions, convective lift can be powerful enough to penetrate the tropopause and push the cloud top into the stratosphere.\nOrographic lift.\nA third source of lift is wind circulation forcing air over a physical barrier such as a mountain (orographic lift). If the air is generally stable, nothing more than lenticular cap clouds will form. However, if the air becomes sufficiently moist and unstable, orographic showers or thunderstorms may appear.\nNon-adiabatic cooling.\nAlong with adiabatic cooling that requires a lifting agent, there are three other main mechanisms for lowering the temperature of the air to its dew point, all of which occur near surface level and do not require any lifting of the air. Conductive, radiational, and evaporative cooling can cause condensation at surface level resulting in the formation of fog. Conductive cooling takes place when air from a relatively mild source area comes into contact with a colder surface, as when mild marine air moves across a colder land area. Radiational cooling occurs due to the emission of infrared radiation, either by the air or by the surface underneath. This type of cooling is common during the night when the sky is clear. Evaporative cooling happens when moisture is added to the air through evaporation, which forces the air temperature to cool to its wet-bulb temperature, or sometimes to the point of saturation.\nAdding moisture to the air.\nThere are five main ways water vapor can be added to the air. Increased vapor content can result from wind convergence over water or moist ground into areas of upward motion. Precipitation or virga falling from above also enhances moisture content. Daytime heating causes water to evaporate from the surface of oceans, water bodies or wet land. Transpiration from plants is another typical source of water vapor. Lastly, cool or dry air moving over warmer water will become more humid. As with daytime heating, the addition of moisture to the air increases its heat content and instability and helps set into motion those processes that lead to the formation of cloud or fog.\nSupersaturation.\nThe amount of water that can exist as vapor in a given volume increases with the temperature. When the amount of water vapor is in equilibrium above a flat surface of water the level of vapor pressure is called saturation and the relative humidity is 100%. At this equilibrium there are equal numbers of molecules evaporating from the water as there are condensing back into the water. If the relative humidity becomes greater than 100%, it is called supersaturated. Supersaturation occurs in the absence of condensation nuclei.\nSince the saturation vapor pressure is proportional to temperature, cold air has a lower saturation point than warm air. The difference between these values is the basis for the formation of clouds. When saturated air cools, it can no longer contain the same amount of water vapor. If the conditions are right, the excess water will condense out of the air until the lower saturation point is reached. Another possibility is that the water stays in vapor form, even though it is beyond the saturation point, resulting in supersaturation.\nSupersaturation of more than 1\u20132% relative to water is rarely seen in the atmosphere, since cloud condensation nuclei are usually present. Much higher degrees of supersaturation are possible in clean air, and are the basis of the cloud chamber.\nThere are no instruments to take measurements of supersaturation in clouds.\nSupercooling.\nWater droplets commonly remain as liquid water and do not freeze, even well below . Ice nuclei that may be present in an atmospheric droplet become active for ice formation at specific temperatures in between and , depending on nucleus geometry and composition. Without ice nuclei, supercooled water droplets (as well as any extremely pure liquid water) can exist down to about , at which point spontaneous freezing occurs.\nCollision-coalescence.\nOne theory explaining how the behavior of individual droplets in a cloud leads to the formation of precipitation is the collision-coalescence process. Droplets suspended in the air will interact with each other, either by colliding and bouncing off each other or by combining to form a larger droplet. Eventually, the droplets become large enough that they fall to the earth as precipitation. The collision-coalescence process does not make up a significant part of cloud formation, as water droplets have a relatively high surface tension. In addition, the occurrence of collision-coalescence is closely related to entrainment-mixing processes.\nBergeron process.\nThe primary mechanism for the formation of ice clouds was discovered by Tor Bergeron. The Bergeron process notes that the saturation vapor pressure of water, or how much water vapor a given volume can contain, depends on what the vapor is interacting with. Specifically, the saturation vapor pressure with respect to ice is lower than the saturation vapor pressure with respect to water. Water vapor interacting with a water droplet may be saturated, at 100% relative humidity, when interacting with a water droplet, but the same amount of water vapor would be supersaturated when interacting with an ice particle. The water vapor will attempt to return to equilibrium, so the extra water vapor will condense into ice on the surface of the particle. These ice particles end up as the nuclei of larger ice crystals. This process only happens at temperatures between and . Below , liquid water will spontaneously nucleate, and freeze. The surface tension of the water allows the droplet to stay liquid well below its normal freezing point. When this happens, it is now supercooled liquid water. The Bergeron process relies on super cooled liquid water (SLW) interacting with ice nuclei to form larger particles. If there are few ice nuclei compared to the amount of SLW, droplets will be unable to form. A process whereby scientists seed a cloud with artificial ice nuclei to encourage precipitation is known as cloud seeding. This can help cause precipitation in clouds that otherwise may not rain. Cloud seeding adds excess artificial ice nuclei which shifts the balance so that there are many nuclei compared to the amount of super cooled liquid water. An over seeded cloud will form many particles, but each will be very small. This can be done as a preventative measure for areas that are at risk for hail storms.\nCloud classification.\nClouds in the troposphere, the atmospheric layer closest to Earth, are classified according to the height at which they are found, and their shape or appearance. There are five \"forms\" based on physical structure and process of formation. \"Cirriform\" clouds are high, thin and wispy, and are seen most extensively along the leading edges of organized weather disturbances. \"Stratiform\" clouds are non-convective and appear as extensive sheet-like layers, ranging from thin to very thick with considerable vertical development. They are mostly the product of large-scale lifting of stable air. Unstable free-convective \"cumuliform\" clouds are formed mostly into localized heaps. \"Stratocumuliform\" clouds of limited convection show a mix of cumuliform and stratiform characteristics which appear in the form of rolls or ripples. Highly convective \"cumulonimbiform\" clouds have complex structures often including cirriform tops and stratocumuliform accessory clouds.\nThese forms are cross-classified by altitude range or \"level\" into ten \"genus\" types which can be subdivided into species and lesser types. High-level clouds form at altitudes of 5 to 12 kilometers. All cirriform clouds are classified as high-level and therefore constitute a single cloud genus cirrus. Stratiform and stratocumuliform clouds in the high level of the troposphere have the prefix \"cirro-\" added to their names yielding the genera cirrostratus and cirrocumulus. Similar clouds found in the middle level (altitude range 2 to 7 kilometers) carry the prefix \"alto-\" resulting in the genus names altostratus and altocumulus.\nLow level clouds have no height-related prefixes, so stratiform and stratocumuliform clouds based around 2 kilometres or lower are known simply as stratus and stratocumulus. Small cumulus clouds with little vertical development (species humilis) are also commonly classified as low level.\nCumuliform and cumulonimbiform heaps and deep stratiform layers often occupy at least two tropospheric levels, and the largest or deepest of these can occupy all three levels. They may be classified as low or mid-level, but are also commonly classified or characterized as vertical or multi-level. Nimbostratus clouds are stratiform layers with sufficient vertical extent to produce significant precipitation. Towering cumulus (species congestus), and cumulonimbus may form anywhere from near the surface to intermediate heights of around 3 kilometres. Of the vertically developed clouds, the cumulonimbus type is the tallest and can virtually span the entire troposphere from a few hundred metres above the ground up to the tropopause. It is the cloud responsible for thunderstorms.\nSome clouds can form at very high to extreme levels above the troposphere, mostly above the polar regions of Earth. Polar stratospheric clouds are seen but rarely in winter at altitudes of 18 to 30 kilometers, while in summer, noctilucent clouds occasionally form at high latitudes at an altitude range of 76 to 85 kilometers. These polar clouds show some of the same forms as seen lower in the troposphere.\nHomospheric types determined by cross-classification of forms and levels.\n\" Homospheric types include the ten tropospheric genera and several additional major types above the troposphere. The cumulus genus includes four species that indicate vertical size and structure.\"\nDetermination of properties.\nSatellites are used to gather data about cloud properties and other information such as Cloud Amount, height, IR emissivity, visible optical depth, icing, effective particle size for both liquid and ice, and cloud top temperature and pressure.\nDetection.\nData sets regarding cloud properties are gathered using satellites, such as MODIS, POLDER, CALIPSO or ATSR. The instruments measure the radiances of the clouds, from which the relevant parameters can be retrieved. This is usually done by using inverse theory.\nThe method of detection is based on the fact that the clouds tend to appear brighter and colder than the land surface. Because of this, difficulties rise in detecting clouds above bright (highly reflective) surfaces, such as oceans and ice.\nParameters.\nThe value of a certain parameter is more reliable the more satellites are measuring the said parameter. This is because the range of errors and neglected details varies from instrument to instrument. Thus, if the analysed parameter has similar values for different instruments, it is accepted that the true value lies in the range given by the corresponding data sets.\nThe Global Energy and Water Cycle Experiment uses the following quantities in order to compare data quality from different satellites in order to establish a reliable quantification of the properties of the clouds:\nIcing.\nAnother vital property is the icing characteristic of various cloud genus types at various altitudes, which can have great impact on the safety of flying. The methodologies used to determine these characteristics include using CloudSat data for the analysis and retrieval of icing conditions, the location of clouds using cloud geometric and reflectivity data, the identification of cloud types using cloud classification data, and finding vertical temperature distribution along the CloudSat track (GFS).\nThe range of temperatures that can give rise to icing conditions is defined according to cloud types and altitude levels:\nCohesion and dissolution.\nThere are forces throughout the homosphere (which includes the troposphere, stratosphere, and mesosphere) that can impact the structural integrity of a cloud. It has been speculated that as long as the air remains saturated, the natural force of cohesion that hold the molecules of a substance together may act to keep the cloud from breaking up. However, this speculation has a logical flaw in that the water droplets in the cloud are not in contact with each other and therefore not satisfying the condition required for the intermolecular forces of cohesion to act. Dissolution of the cloud can occur when the process of adiabatic cooling ceases and upward lift of the air is replaced by subsidence. This leads to at least some degree of adiabatic warming of the air which can result in the cloud droplets or crystals turning back into invisible water vapor. Stronger forces such as wind shear and downdrafts can impact a cloud, but these are largely confined to the troposphere where nearly all the Earth's weather takes place. A typical cumulus cloud weighs about 500 metric tons, or 1.1 million pounds, the weight of 100 elephants.\nModels.\nThere are two main model schemes that can represent cloud physics, the most common is bulk microphysics models that uses mean values to describe the cloud properties (e.g. rain water content, ice content), the properties can represent only the first order (concentration) or also the second order (mass).\nThe second option is to use bin microphysics scheme that keep the moments (mass or concentration) in different for different size of particles.\nThe bulk microphysics models are much faster than the bin models but are less accurate."}
{"id": "731798", "revid": "149211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731798", "title": "Victorie of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld", "text": ""}
{"id": "731800", "revid": "359256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731800", "title": "Barry N. Malzberg", "text": "Barry Nathaniel Malzberg (July 24, 1939 \u2013 December 19, 2024) was an American writer and editor, most often of science fiction and fantasy.\nLife and career.\nEarly life and family.\nMalzberg originated from a Jewish family and graduated from Syracuse University in 1960. He worked as an investigator for the New York City Department of Welfare in 1961\u20131962 and 1963\u20131964. In 1963, he was employed as a reimbursement agent for the New York State Department of Mental Health. He married Joyce Zelnick in 1964.\nLiterary career.\nMalzberg initially sought to establish himself as a playwright as well as a prose-fiction writer. In 1964, he returned to Syracuse University for graduate study in creative writing. Although he was awarded a Schubert Foundation Playwriting Fellowship (1964-1965) and the Cornelia Ward Creative Writing Fellowship (1965), he was unable to sell his work to any of the literary magazines of the era. Resolving not to be an \"unpublished assistant professor of English,\" he left the program in 1965 to pursue a career as a freelance writer and agent for the Scott Meredith Literary Agency. Malzberg would intermittently continue with SMLA through the next several decades, being one of its last caretakers.\nHis first published story was \"The Bed\" under the pseudonym \"Nathan Herbert\" in the men's magazine \"Wildcat\". His first science fiction story (\"We're Coming Through the Window\") was published in the August 1967 issue of \"Galaxy\". Malzberg frequently repurposed existing stories for his science fiction sales. He first found commercial and critical success with publication of his surreal novelette \"Final War\" in \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\" under the name \"K. M. O'Donnell\" in 1968.\nHe had been writing erotic novels using the pseudonym \"Mel Johnson\" but began writing erotic novels under his own name in 1968 for Maurice Girodias's Olympia Press. Many of his science short stories and novels in the late 1960s were published under the pseudonym \"K. M. O'Donnell\", derived from the surnames of Henry Kuttner, C. L. Moore, and their joint pseudonym \"Lawrence O'Donnell.\"\nHe was an editor at \"Escapade\", a men's magazine, in early 1968. In the latter half of 1968 he edited \"Amazing Stories\" and \"Fantastic\" science fiction and fantasy-fiction magazines. He was the editor of the Science Fiction Writers of America Bulletin in 1969 until he was asked to resign because of a critical editorial he wrote about the NASA space program.\nMalzberg's writing style is distinctive, frequently employing long, elaborate sentences with few commas. Most of his science fiction books are short, present-tense narratives concerned exclusively with the consciousness of a single obsessive character. His themes, particularly in the novels \"Beyond Apollo\" (1972) and \"The Falling Astronauts\" (1971) about the US space exploration programme, include the dehumanisation effects of bureaucracy and technology; his treatment of these themes sometimes exhibits strong resemblances to Franz Kafka, accompanied by unreliable narrator techniques. In novels like \"Galaxies\" (1975) and \"Herovit's World\" (1973), Malzberg uses metafiction techniques to subject the heroic conventions and literary limitations of space opera to biting satire.\nHe edited anthologies such as \"Final Stage\" (with Edward L. Ferman), also several in collaboration with Bill Pronzini and others. In interviews and memoirs he detailed how many of his novels have been written within weeks or even days: for example, at the beginning of 1973 he was commissioned to write the series of novels \"The Lone Wolf\", ten of which he completed by October 1973. Aside from fantastic fiction, he was a prolific writer of crime fiction and other genres, under his own name, as O'Donnell, and as Mike Barry and under other pseudonyms. He also often wrote in collaboration with Pronzini, Kathe Koja, and others. He wrote the novelization of the Saul Bass-directed 1974 film \"Phase IV\". At the end of 1975 he made numerous public statements that he was retiring from science fiction.\nHe was also nominated several times for the Hugo Award (including for the stories \"In the Stone House\" and \"Understanding Entropy\"), and won the \"Locus\" Award for his collection of historical and critical essays, \"The Engines of the Night\" (1982).\nReception.\nMalzberg's work has been widely praised by critics, while being attacked by proponents of hard science fiction for its pessimistic, anti-Campbellian tenor. The dystopian and metafictional elements of Malzberg's work led to a parody by Paul Di Filippo, whose first published story, \"Falling Expectations\", was a parody of Malzberg. Theodore Sturgeon said of Malzberg in 1973, \"I look forward eagerly to his byline, snatch joyfully at it when I see it and he has never let me down.\" Writing in \"The Paris Review\", critic J.D. Daniels said of Malzberg: \"Malzberg\u2019s books, in their tortured self-awareness, are primarily about \"writing\": its technical difficulties and moral pitfalls, its potential to cheapen or calcify, its temptation to fraudulence or ventriloquism, the insisted-on inadequacy of language as an excuse for not being a less recursive or less involuted writer, and so on.\" \nScience Fiction Writers of America.\nFor years, Malzberg collaborated with friend and fellow science fiction writer Mike Resnick on a series of more than 50 advice columns for writers in the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America's quarterly magazine \"SFWA Bulletin\". They have been collected as \"The Business of Science Fiction\".\nMalzberg was a regular contributor to the \"SFWA Bulletin\" published by the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America. In 2013, articles he wrote for the \"Bulletin\" with Mike Resnick triggered a controversy about sexism among members of the association. Female authors strongly objected to comments by Resnick and Malzberg such as references to \"lady editors\" and \"lady writers\" who were \"beauty pageant beautiful\" or a \"knock out.\" \"Bulletin\" editor Jean Rabe resigned her post in the course of the controversy.\nHe had been a resident of Teaneck, New Jersey, for many years.\nStark House Press Reissues.\nStark House Press has reissued more than forty of Malzberg's novels and short story collections, along with two new short story collections: \"Collecting Myself: The Uncollected Stories of Barry N. Malzberg\" (edited by Robert Friedman and Gregory Shepard) and \"Collaborative Capers\" (edited by Robert Friedman). \nDeath.\nMalzberg died in Saddle River, New Jersey, on December 19, 2024, at the age of 85. He was survived by his wife and daughters. Malzberg had been suffering from a series of medical problems, culminating in pneumonia and a bacterial infection. An obituary titled \"Novelist on a Deadline: Barry Malzberg, 1939\u20132024,\" and stating that Malzberg wrote \"quickly and brilliantly in a variety of genres,\" appeared in the December 23, 2024 issue of \"The Nation\"."}
{"id": "731803", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731803", "title": "Mike and The Mechanics", "text": ""}
{"id": "731804", "revid": "51025196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731804", "title": "John Frederick I, Elector of Saxony", "text": "John Frederick I (; called the Magnanimous ; 30 June 1503 \u2013 3\u00a0March 1554) was the Elector of Saxony (1532\u20131547) until he was deprived of this title in the Capitulation of Wittenberg by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. He was leading the Schmalkaldic League, a military alliance of Lutheran principalities.\nEarly years.\nJohn Frederick was the eldest son of John, Elector of Saxony by his first wife, Sophie of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. His mother died fourteen days after his birth, on 12 July 1503.\nJohn Frederick received his education from George Spalatin, whom he highly esteemed during his whole life. Spalatin was Martin Luther's friend and advisor and thus, through Spalatin's schooling, John Frederick developed a devotion to the teachings of Luther. His knowledge of history was comprehensive, and his library, which extended over all sciences, was one of the largest in Germany.\nHe cultivated a personal relationship with Luther, beginning to correspond with him in the days when the bull of excommunication was first issued against the Reformer, and showing himself a convinced adherent of Luther. He carefully observed the development of the reformatory movement. He read Luther's writings, urged the printing of the first complete (Wittenberg) edition of his works, and in the latter years of his life promoted the compilation of the Jena edition. At the Elector's Schloss Hartenfels at Torgau, he constructed a chapel specifically designed to be a Lutheran place of worship and invited Martin Luther to deliver the inaugural sermon. The influence of Lutheranism at John Frederick's court is also visible in the translation by Veit Warbeck of the French romance the \"Magelone\", made in preparation of John Frederick's marriage in 1527; Catholic elements are suppressed.\nHis father introduced him into the political and diplomatic affairs of the time, and he conducted the first negotiations of a treaty with Hesse in Kreuzburg and Friedewald. He took an active part in the disturbances caused by the Pack affair (\"see\" John the Steadfast), and Luther was grateful to him for his exertions, in spite of his youth, for the maintenance of peace.\nDuring the second diet of Speyer (1529) he temporarily assumed the reins of government in place of his father. The intrigues of Archduke Ferdinand induced him after the diet to draw up an imperial statute for the Evangelical estates, which shows that he was more decidedly convinced of the right and duty of defense than his father. He accompanied the latter to the Diet of Augsburg in 1530, signed with him the Augsburg Confession and was active in the proceedings. His attitude did not remain unnoticed, and won him the dislike of Emperor Charles V.\nElector of Saxony.\nIn 1532, John Frederick succeeded his father as elector. In the beginning he reigned with his half-brother, John Ernest, but in 1542 became sole ruler.\nChancellor Gregor Br\u00fcck, who for years had guided the foreign relations of the country with ability and prudence, remained also his councilor, but his open and impulsive nature often led him to disregard the propositions of his more experienced adviser, so that the country was in frequent danger, especially as John Frederick was not a far-sighted politician.\nHe consolidated the Lutheran State Church by the institution of an electoral consistory (1542) and renewed the church visitation. He took a firmer and more decided stand than his father in favor of the Schmalkaldic League, but on account of his strictly Lutheran convictions was involved in difficulties with Philip I, Landgrave of Hesse, who favored a union with the Swiss and Strasburg Evangelicals. He was averse to all propositions of Popes Clement VII and Paul III to support calling a General Council, because he was convinced that it would only serve \"for the preservation of the papal and anti-Christian rule\"; but to be prepared for any event, he requested Luther to summarize all articles to which he would adhere before a council, and Luther wrote the Schmalkald Articles. At the Diet of Schmalkalden in 1537 the council was refused, and the elector treated the papal legate with open disregard and rejected the propositions of Matthias von Held, the imperial legate.\nHe followed the efforts at agreement at the conference of Regensburg in 1541 with suspicion and refused to accept the article on justification which had been drawn up under the supervision of Gasparo Contarini to suit both parties, and Luther, his steady adviser, confirmed him in his aversion. The efforts at agreement failed, and the elector contributed not a little to broaden the gulf by his interference in the ecclesiastical affairs of Halle and by aiding the Reformation which had been introduced there by Justus Jonas. His attitude became more and more stubborn and regardless of consequences, not to the advantage of the Protestant cause.\nIn spite of the warnings of the emperor, of Br\u00fcck, and of Luther, he arbitrarily set aside in 1541 the election of Julius von Pflug as the bishop of Naumburg, and instead instituted Nicolaus von Amsdorf as bishop, and introduced the Reformation. In 1542 he expelled Duke Henry V of Brunswick-Wolfenb\u00fcttel from his country to protect the Evangelical cities Goslar and Brunswick and introduced the Reformation there. Entanglement in other wars hindered Emperor Charles V from interfering and by apparently yielding he succeeded in concealing his true intentions. The elector appeared personally at the diet of Speyer in 1544. The harmony of the emperor with the Evangelicals appeared never greater than at that time. He permitted the Regensburg declaration of 1541 to be embodied in the new recess and acknowledged all innovations which the Evangelicals had made between 1532 and 1541 because he needed the aid of the Protestants against France. John Frederick actually thought that peace had come and continued the ecclesiastical reforms in his country. Even the growing discord among the allies did not disturb him.\nWhen the Schmalkaldic War broke out in 1546, he marched to the south at the head of his troops, but the unexpected invasion of his country by his cousin Duke Maurice compelled him to return. He succeeded in reconquering the larger part of his possessions and repelling Maurice, but suddenly the emperor hastened north and surprised the elector. The Battle of M\u00fchlberg, 24 April 1547, went against him and dispersed his army. He received a slashing wound to the left side of his face, leaving him with a disfiguring scar from his lower eye socket down his cheek. He was taken prisoner by Charles V and sent into exile in Worms.\nPrisoner.\nEmperor Charles V condemned John Frederick to death as a convicted rebel; but, not to lose time in the siege of Wittenberg, which was defended by John Frederick's wife, Sybille, he did not execute the sentence and entered into negotiations.\nTo save his life, protect his wife and sons, and avert further hostilities, John Frederick conceded the Capitulation of Wittenberg, and, after having been compelled to resign the government of his country in favor of Maurice, his condemnation was changed into imprisonment for life.\nFinal days.\nThe sudden attack upon the emperor by Elector Maurice made an end of John Frederick's imprisonment, and he was released on 1 September 1552. He firmly refused to bind himself to comply in matters of religion with the decisions of a future council or diet, declaring that he was resolved to adhere until his grave to the doctrine contained in the Augsburg Confession.\nHis homeward journey was a triumphal march. He met his family after an absence of five years at Wolfersdorf Castle which he had built as a hunting lodge earlier, and he renamed it \"Schloss Froehliche Wiederkunft\" (\"Palace of Happy Returning\").\nHe moved the seat of government to Weimar and reformed the conditions of his country, but died within two years. A special object of his care was the University of Jena, which he planned in place of Wittenberg, which he had lost (1547). He died in Weimar.\nMarriage and family.\nIn Torgau on 9 February 1527 John Frederick married Sibylle of Cleves, daughter of John III, Duke of Cleves and sister to Anne of Cleves, who was briefly Queen of England as the fourth wife of King Henry VIII. They had four sons:"}
{"id": "731805", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731805", "title": "List of children of Oceanus", "text": ""}
{"id": "731807", "revid": "27015025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731807", "title": "Carus Publishing Company", "text": "The Carus Publishing Company, now subsumed into Cricket Media, was a publisher with offices in Chicago, Peterborough, New Hampshire and Peru, Illinois. Its Peterborough office was closed June 30, 2015. Its Peru offices have closed as well, and operations primarily occur in Chicago. It owns the Open Court Publishing Company as well as the Cricket Magazine Group, and Cobblestone Publishing. Open Court is known for their Popular Culture and Philosophy books, while Cricket and Cobblestone produce a range of children's magazines.\nTheir magazines for children and teens are \"Ask\", \"Babybug\", \"Click\", \"Cobblestone\", \"Cricket\", \"Faces\", \"Ladybug\", \"Muse\", and \"Spider\".\nCarus was founded in 1973 and was acquired by the Canadian company in December 2011. The was renamed Cricket Media in 2014. Cricket Media was acquired by ZG Ventures in 2016."}
{"id": "731811", "revid": "35880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731811", "title": "Arkusz", "text": ""}
{"id": "731814", "revid": "1306229598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731814", "title": "Aberdeen scandal", "text": "The Aberdeen Scandal was a military sexual assault scandal in 1996 at Aberdeen Proving Ground, a United States Army base in Maryland.\nUltimately, twelve drill instructors were charged with sex crimes; four were sentenced to prison, while eight others were discharged or received non-judicial punishment. Additionally, \"letters of reprimand were issued to Aberdeen's commanding general and three other senior officers.\"\nCharges brought against the officers.\nCaptain Derrick Robertson and Sergeants Delmar Simpson and Nathanael Beech were accused of participating in the Army's biggest sex abuse scandal on record. Robertson and Simpson faced rape charges and Beech was charged with adultery.&lt;ref name=\"http://www.cnn.com/US/9612/06/aberdeen.arraign/index.html\"&gt;Three soldiers arraigned in U.S. Army sex scandal&lt;/ref&gt;\nArmy Secretary Togo West accused those charged of abusing their power, and ordered all soldiers to undergo sexual harassment training so they could learn the Army's \"zero tolerance\" policy towards sexual harassment. The men accused felt that statements made by West and other officials within the Army were prejudging the case and would result in an unfair trial. Robertson's attorney, Jerome Murphy, asked the military judge Linda Webster, to enact a gag order on West and others, but she deferred judgment. However, she did order prospective jurors not to follow media coverage of the case to avoid interference with their judgment.\nFort Leonard Wood scandal.\nA separate and unrelated scandal took place in 1996 at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri; charges in that case were announced five days before the Aberdeen scandal became public, and the two cases were reported by the media in tandem. According to Army officials, 22 female soldiers \"were involved in incidents\" in which three men\u2014Staff Sgt. Loren B. Taylor, Staff Sgt. Anthony S. Fore, and Sgt. George W. Blackley Jr.\u2014were charged.\nTaylor pleaded guilty to failing to obey a general regulation \"by having consensual sex with three female recruits and trying to have sex with another\" and admitted to \"improper contact with a fifth woman recruit.\" Taylor was \"discharged, demoted and sentenced to confinement.\"\nFore pleaded guilty to failing to obey a general regulation, indecent assault, and assault and battery, and a military judge, after hearing testimony, convicting Fore \"of two additional counts of failing to obey a general regulation and indecent assault.\" The Army dropped several other charges. Fore was sentenced to eighteen months in prison and was dishonorably discharged.\nBlackley was acquitted on charges of failing to obey a general regulation, indecent assault, maltreatment and showing disrespect to a fellow non-commissioned officer.\nAftermath.\nSince the charges were filed, the U.S. Army set up a hotline to take reports of sexual harassment in the military. It has also made available many resources for soldiers who feel they have been harassed or assaulted.\nSupervisors were also barred from having romantic relationships with the soldiers they trained. The Army cited the fact that they cannot be sure if all relationships are consensual due to the nature of a supervisor's power over their trainees."}
{"id": "731815", "revid": "49753374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731815", "title": "J\u00f3zef Arkusz", "text": "J\u00f3zef Arkusz (18 March 1921 \u2013 29 June 1995) was a Polish film director and producer of over 70 educational films.\nBiography.\nJ\u00f3zef Arkusz was born on 18 March 1921 in Peratyn, Tarnopol Voivodeship (modern day Chervonohrad Raion, Lviv Oblast). His family moved to Lviv in the early 1930s. During World War II he took part in the underground movement Armia Krajowa, for which he was awarded the Officer's Cross of the Order of Polonia Restituta. Following the war, he moved to the industrial city of \u0141\u00f3d\u017a, in central Poland, where he began studying biology.\nHe attended the University of Pozna\u0144, and received a degree in Biology in 1950. He furthered his education by attending and graduating from the \u0141\u00f3d\u017c Film School in 1953.\nHe worked on minor films and projects until the 1960s when he began to be noticed by the international community. At this point, his career took off and he made some of his most famous educational films. Working at the Educational Film Studio (Wytw\u00f3rnia Film\u00f3w O\u015bwiatowych) in \u0141\u00f3d\u017c, he created General Topic Films (Filmy O\u015bwiatowe), and is credited as being one of the most influential Polish documentary filmmakers. He pioneered new methods of filming and documentary production, which are now used as standard practice around the world. His film topics included technical and biological specialties and focused on new biological advances of the modern age.\nHe died in \u0141\u00f3d\u017a, Poland on Monday 19 June 1995."}
{"id": "731817", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731817", "title": "Individual differences", "text": ""}
{"id": "731819", "revid": "48953296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731819", "title": "Chera (disambiguation)", "text": "Chera dynasty was an Indian dynasty that ruled over parts of the present-day states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu during the early historic period.\nChera may also refer to:"}
{"id": "731824", "revid": "27823944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731824", "title": "March to Fuzz", "text": "March to Fuzz is a compilation album by American rock band Mudhoney, released in January 2000 by Sub Pop Records. Disc 1 is a collection of the band's most popular songs, such as \"Here Comes Sickness\" and \"Sweet Young Thing Ain't Sweet No More.\" Disc 2 is a collection of rare tracks, b-sides such as \"Butterfly Stroke,\" and covers such as \"The Money Will Roll Right In.\"\nThe booklet that comes with the digipak album features an introduction by Sup Pop co-founder Bruce Pavitt, \"Corporate Associate.\" The remainder of the booklet includes comments by band members Mark Arm and Steve Turner about each of the 52 songs.\nTrack listing.\nAll tracks written by Mudhoney unless otherwise noted.\nDisc 1 - Best Of\nDisc 2 - Rarities"}
{"id": "731826", "revid": "59159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731826", "title": "Battle of Luetzen (1632)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731827", "revid": "37371155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731827", "title": "Fodor's", "text": "Fodor's is a producer of English-language travel guides and online tourism information. It was founded by Hungarian Eugene Fodor, who created his first travel guide, \"1936...on the Continent\", with the intention of improving upon the directory-type travel guides in existence through the inclusion of practical guidance, such as tipping advice, and levity (the introduction noted that \"Rome contains not only magnificent monuments [...] but also Italians.\").\nFodor\u2019s pioneering book was a success in England and the United States, and was immediately updated as \"1937 in Europe\". After an interruption caused by World War II, Fodor's Modern Guides, Inc., was founded in Paris in 1949, and a year later David McKay Company became its publisher. Fodor\u2019s was acquired with McKay by Random House in 1986 and sold to Internet Brands in 2016.\nFodor's has published more than 440 guides (in 14 series) on over 300 destinations, and has more than 700 permanently placed researchers all over the world. Its website, which was launched in 1996, was nominated for a Webby Award in 2004."}
{"id": "731828", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731828", "title": "USS Underwood", "text": "USS \"Underwood\" (FFG-36) was the twenty-seventh ship of the of guided-missile frigates, named for Captain Gordon Waite Underwood (1910\u20131978).\nOrdered from Bath Iron Works, Bath, Maine, on 27 April 1979 as part of the FY79 program, \"Underwood\" was laid down on 30 July 1981, launched on 6 February 1982, and commissioned on 29 January 1983. She was assigned to Destroyer Squadron 14 and homeported at Mayport, FL.\nOn 13 January 2010, \"Underwood\" was ordered to assist in the humanitarian relief efforts following the 2010 Haiti earthquake.\n\"Underwood\" was extensively used to counteract drug trafficking in Latin America with the assistance of the Coast Guard.\n\"Underwood\" was decommissioned at Naval Station Mayport on 8 March 2013. It was then moved to the Naval Inactive Ship Maintenance Facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where it was laid up.\nOn 27 February 2023, \"Underwood\" arrived at Brownsville, Texas, where it will be scrapped."}
{"id": "731830", "revid": "126457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731830", "title": "1991 Tailhook sandal", "text": ""}
{"id": "731832", "revid": "1741963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731832", "title": "Halifax, Nova Scotia", "text": "Halifax, officially the Halifax Regional Municipality (HRM), is the capital and most populous municipality of the Canadian province of Nova Scotia, and the most populous municipality in Atlantic Canada. It consists of four former municipalities that were amalgamated in 1996: Halifax, Dartmouth, Bedford, and Halifax County.\nHalifax is an economic centre of Atlantic Canada, home to a concentration of government offices and private companies. Major employers include the Department of National Defence, Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia Health Authority, Saint Mary's University, the Halifax Shipyard, various levels of government, and the Port of Halifax. Resource industries found in rural areas of the municipality include agriculture, fishing, mining, forestry, and natural gas extraction. As of 2024, it is estimated that the population of the Halifax CMA was 530,167, with 348,634 people in its urban area.\nEtymology.\nThe area was called \"Chebucto\" until Halifax was established by Governor Edward Cornwallis in 1749, named in honour of George Montagu-Dunk, 2nd Earl of Halifax. The Mi'kmaq name for the harbour around which Halifax exists is or \"Chebookt\", meaning \"Chief Harbour\" or \"Great Harbour\" in the Mi'kmaq language. Additionally, the Mi'kmaq referred to the area of the Halifax Peninsula comprising the downtown area and Point Pleasant Park as , while the hillside where Halifax was established was referred to as \"Gooowakade\", meaning \"place of many pines\".\nHistory.\nBefore the mid-1700s, when a European (British) settlement was established at Halifax, the Colony of Nova Scotia had been administered from Annapolis Royal, near the Western opening of the Bay of Fundy. However, in 1749, King George II ordered Edward Cornwallis to establish Halifax as a new capital. Equipped with 13 transports and a sloop of war, Cornwallis founded the Town of Halifax on what is now known as the Halifax Peninsula, on June 21, 1749.\nThe establishment of Halifax marked the beginning of Father Le Loutre's War. By unilaterally establishing Halifax, the British were violating treaties with the Mi'kmaq (1726) that were signed after Father Rale's War. Cornwallis brought along 1,176 settlers and their families. To protect the new Protestant settlements from Mi'kmaq, Acadian, and French attacks, British fortifications were erected in Halifax (Citadel Hill, 1749), Bedford (Fort Sackville, 1749), Dartmouth (1750), and Lawrencetown (1754), all areas within the modern-day Municipality.\nThe community of St. Margaret's Bay, also in the Municipality, was first settled by French-speaking Foreign Protestants at French Village, Nova Scotia, who migrated from Lunenburg, Nova Scotia, during the American Revolution.\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, Halifax grew to become a centre of government (particularly military), trade, and shipbuilding. The completion of the Intercolonial Railway in 1876 helped make Halifax a major gateway for Atlantic trade\u2014particularly in winter, when ice made ports on the St. Lawrence River inaccessible.\nThis connection to trans-Atlantic trade and military enterprises bore deadly consequences on December 6, 1917. In one of the great disasters in Canadian history, the , a French cargo ship carrying munitions, collided with the Belgian Relief vessel in \"The Narrows\" between upper Halifax Harbour and Bedford Basin. The resulting Halifax Explosion devastated the Richmond District in the North End of Halifax, killing about 2,000 people and injuring nearly 9,000 others. The blast was the largest artificial explosion before the development of nuclear weapons. Aid came from Boston, strengthening the bond between the two coastal cities.\nIn addition to the capital City of Halifax (on the western side of the harbour), the City of Dartmouth (eastern side) and the Town of Bedford (northern tip of the Bedford Basin) grew up through the 19th and 20th centuries. Halifax County was originally understood as a higher-level geographic unit responsible for, among other things, court services throughout both the incorporated Cities and Town, and the unorganized territory of the remainder of the county. However, by the mid-20th century, this structure had evolved such that \"the County\" was a distinct municipality including only the areas that were \"not\" included within the Cities and Town.\nThese four municipalities (City of Halifax, City of Dartmouth, Town of Bedford, Halifax County) coordinated delivery of some services through a body known as the Metropolitan Authority starting in the late 1970s, but remained independent municipal bodies until April 1, 1996, when the provincial government amalgamated all municipal governments within Halifax County to create the Halifax Regional Municipality. Thus, the modern municipal boundary now includes all of Halifax County except for several Mi'kmaq reserves.\nSince amalgamation, the region has officially been known as the Halifax Regional Municipality (HRM), but \"Halifax\" has remained in common usage for brevity. In April 2014, the Regional Council approved a new brand identity for the region, under which the name \"Halifax\" is used for marketing and communications purposes; \"Halifax Regional Municipality\" remains the region's official name.\nGeography.\nClimate.\nHalifax has a humid continental climate (K\u00f6ppen \"Dfb\"), with warm summers and relatively mild winters, which is due to Gulf Stream moderation. The weather is usually milder in the winter or cooler in the summer than areas at similar latitudes inland, with the temperature remaining (with occasional notable exceptions) between about . January is the coldest month, being the only month with a high that is slightly below freezing at , while August is the warmest. The sea heavily influences the climate of the area, causing significant seasonal lag in summer, with August being significantly warmer than June and with September being the third mildest month in terms of mean temperature.\nHurricane Juan, a category 2 storm, hit in September 2003 and caused considerable damage to the region. Hurricane Earl grazed the coast as a category 1 storm in 2010. In 2019, Hurricane Dorian made landfall just south of Halifax as a post-tropical storm with an intensity equivalent to a category 2 hurricane and caused significant damage across Nova Scotia. In 2021 Hurricane Ida hit the region with minor damage. In 2022, Hurricane Fiona hit as a category 2 storm, although damage was relatively minor in Halifax, with downed trees and widespread power outages for days.\nThe highest temperature ever recorded in Halifax was on July 10, 1912, and the lowest temperature recorded was on February 18, 1922. In spite of the possibility of high temperatures, in a normal year there are only three days that go above . Halifax also has a modest frost count by Canadian standards due to the maritime influence, averaging 131 air frosts and 49 full days below freezing annually. On average the frost-free period is 182 days, ranging from May 1 to October 31.\nMetropolitan landscape.\nAs of the 2021 Canadian Census, the Halifax Census Metropolitan Area includes all of Halifax County, together with the Municipality of East Hants. The total land area of this metropolitan area is \nIn Canada, metro areas include neighbouring municipalities where more than half of the commuters commute into the core municipality. Between the 2016 Canadian Census and the 2021 Canadian Census, East Hants, a formerly rural, but increasingly exurban community located north of the main Halifax population centre, was added to the Halifax metro area, due to the increased population who commute from East Hants to Halifax. Before the 2021 Canadian Census, Metropolitan Halifax covered After the addition of the East Hants, the metropolitan area's land area expanded by to its current land area.\nMunicipal landscape.\nSince 1 April 1996, the entirety of the County of Halifax and all its places (cities, suburbs, towns, and villages) were turned into communities of a larger single-tier municipality called Halifax Regional Municipality. As of 2021, the total surface area of the municipality is .\nRegional Centre.\nThere are varying definitions of the \"core\" of Halifax. For planning purposes, the Municipality defines the \"Regional Centre\" as including the Halifax Peninsula and Dartmouth inside the Circumferential Highway. This urban area covers and houses 96,619 people in 55,332 dwelling units as of the 2016 Census.\nCommunities and neighbourhoods.\nThere are over 200 official communities and neighbourhoods within the Halifax municipality. The former town of Bedford, and the former cities of Dartmouth and Halifax have maintained their original geographic names. Furthermore, some communities that were suburban, or even rural before 1996, now have become more urban and have attained \"community\" status (e.g. Cole Harbour, Lower Sackville, Spryfield, etc.)\nUrban landscape.\nAt , Halifax's urban area (defined as \"population centre\" by Statistics Canada) is less than five percent of the municipal land area. The area surrounds Halifax Harbour and its main centres are Bedford, Dartmouth, and Halifax (and their respective environs).\nBetween the 2016 Canadian Census and the 2021 Canadian Census, the built-up area of Halifax grew by from in 2016 to 23,829 hectares (238.29\u00a0km2) in 2021.\nCulture.\nHalifax is a major cultural centre within the Atlantic provinces. The municipality has maintained many of its maritime and military traditions, while opening itself to a growing multicultural population. The municipality's urban core also benefits from a large population of post-secondary students who strongly influence the local cultural scene. Halifax has a number of art galleries, theatres and museums, as well as most of the region's national-quality sports and entertainment facilities. Halifax is also the home to many of the region's major cultural attractions, such as Halifax Pop Explosion, Symphony Nova Scotia, the Art Gallery of Nova Scotia, The Khyber, the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic and the Neptune Theatre.\nThe new Halifax Central Library on Spring Garden Road has received accolades for its architecture including the Governor General's Medal in Architecture and was described by \"Canadian Architect\" as \"the most significant public building completed in the Nova Scotia capital in over a generation, and a new cultural hub for the region\".\nArchitecture.\nHalifax's urban core is home to a number of regional landmark buildings and retains significant historic buildings and districts. Downtown office towers are overlooked by the fortress of Citadel Hill with its iconic Halifax Town Clock.\nPublic spaces.\nThe Halifax area has a variety of public spaces, ranging from urban gardens, public squares, expansive forested parks, and historic sites. The original grid plan devised when Halifax was founded in 1749 included a central military parade square, the Grand Parade. The square hosts the City Hall at one end, and is a popular site for concerts, political demonstrations, as well as the annual Remembrance Day ceremony at the central cenotaph. Another popular downtown public space is the timber Halifax Boardwalk, which stretches approximately and is integrated with several squares and monuments.\nThe Halifax Common, granted for the use of citizens in 1763, is Canada's oldest public park. Centrally located on the Halifax Peninsula, the wide fields are a popular location for sports. The slopes of Citadel Hill, overlooking downtown, are favoured by sunbathers and kite-flyers. The Halifax Public Gardens, a short walk away, are Victorian era public gardens formally established in 1867 and designated a National Historic Site in 1984. Victoria Park, across the street, contains various monuments and statues erected by the North British Society, as well as a fountain. In contrast to the urban parks, the expansive Point Pleasant Park at the southern tip of the peninsula is heavily forested and contains the remains of numerous British fortifications.\nLocated on the opposite side of the harbour, the Dartmouth Commons is a large park next to Downtown Dartmouth laid out in the 1700s. It is home to the Leighton Dillman gardens and various sports grounds. Nearby, the Dartmouth waterfront trail stretches from Downtown Dartmouth to Woodside. Among residents of central Dartmouth, the area around Sullivan's Pond and Lake Banook is popular for strolling and paddling. The forested Shubie Park, through which the historic Shubenacadie Canal runs, is a major park in suburban Dartmouth.\nMainland Halifax is home to several significant parks, including Sir Sandford Fleming Park, gifted to the people of Halifax by Sir Sandford Fleming. It houses the Dingle Tower, dedicated in 1912 by the Duke of Connaught to commemorate 150 years of representative government in Nova Scotia. The Mainland Common, in Clayton Park, is a modern park home to various sports and community facilities. Long Lake Provincial Park, comprising more than 2,000 hectares, was designated in 1984 and affords Halifax residents access to a scenic wilderness in close proximity to the urban communities.\nTourism.\nHalifax's tourism industry showcases Nova Scotia's culture, scenery and coastline. There are several museums and art galleries in downtown Halifax. The Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21, an immigrant entry point prominent throughout the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s, was opened to the public as a National Historic Site of Canada in 1999 and is the only national museum in the Atlantic provinces. The Maritime Museum of the Atlantic is a maritime museum containing extensive galleries including a large exhibit on the famous , over 70 small craft and a steamship . In summertime the preserved World War II corvette operates as a museum ship and Canada's naval memorial. The Art Gallery of Nova Scotia is housed in a 150-year-old building containing nearly 19,000 works of art. The Black Cultural Centre for Nova Scotia in Dartmouth reflects the region's rich ethnic heritage.\nHalifax has numerous National Historic Sites, most notably Citadel Hill (Fort George). Just outside the urban area, the iconic Peggys Cove is internationally recognized and receives more than 600,000 visitors a year.\nThe waterfront in Downtown Halifax is the site of the Halifax Harbourwalk, a boardwalk popular among tourists and locals alike. Many mid-sized ships dock here at one of the many wharfs. The harbourwalk is home to a Halifax Transit ferry terminal, hundreds of stores, Historic Properties, several office buildings, the Casino Nova Scotia, and several public squares where buskers perform, most prominently at the annual Halifax International Busker Festival every August.\nCruise ships visit the province frequently. In 2015, the Port of Halifax welcomed 141 vessel calls with 222,309 passengers.\nMedia.\nHalifax is the Atlantic region's central point for radio broadcast and press media. CBC Television, CTV Television Network (CTV), and Global Television Network and other broadcasters all have important regional television concentrators in the municipality. CBC Radio has a major regional studio and there are also regional hubs for Rogers Radio and various private broadcast franchises, as well as a regional bureau for The Canadian Press/Broadcast News.\nHalifax's print media is centred on its single daily newspaper, the broadsheet \"Chronicle Herald\" as well as two free newspapers, the daily commuter-oriented edition of \"Metro International\" and the free alternative arts weekly \"The Coast\".\nHalifax has several online daily newspapers. \"allNovaScotia\" is a daily, subscriber-only outlet which focuses on business and political news from across the province. \"CityNews Halifax\", associated with the CJNI-FM radio station, was created from a merger of the former News 95.7 and \"HalifaxToday\" (previously \"Local Xpress\") news websites. The \"Halifax Examiner\" was founded by the former news editor of \"The Coast\" in 2014 and, like \"allNovaScotia\", is supported through subscriptions.\nFrom 1974 to 2008, Halifax had a second daily newspaper, the tabloid \"The Daily News\", which still publishes several neighbourhood weekly papers such as \"The Bedford-Sackville Weekly News\", \"The Halifax West-Clayton Park Weekly News\" and the \"Dartmouth-Cole Harbour Weekly News\". These weekly papers compete with \"The Chronicle-Herald\"'s weekly Community Heralds \"HRM West\", \"HRM East\", and \"HRM North\".\nSports.\nHalifax is represented by four professional sports teams, with teams in the National Lacrosse League (NLL), the Canadian Premier League (CPL), the Northern Super League (NSL) and The Basketball League (TBL). The Halifax Mooseheads play in the Quebec Maritimes Junior Hockey League (QMJHL), which is part of the Canadian Hockey League (CHL). It is also home to four universities that have athletic programmes.\nHalifax's major sports venues include the Scotiabank Centre (formerly the Metro Centre), the Halifax Forum, the Wanderers Grounds and various university sports facilities, such as Huskies Stadium.\nProfessional and semi-professional sports.\nHalifax is home to the Halifax Mooseheads, the semi-professional major junior hockey club of the Quebec Maritimes Junior Hockey League (QMJHL). Founded in 1994, the Mooseheads were the first team from Atlantic Canada to join the QMJHL. They began play in the league's Dilio Division in the 1994\u201395 season, In 2013, the Mooseheads capped a 74-win season (74\u20137\u20133\u20131) with a QMJHL's President's Cup championship. While hosting the tournament, the Mooseheads also won the CHL's 2013 Memorial Cup. They have appeared in the President's Cup Finals four more times: 2003, 2005, 2019 and 2023. They hosted the Memorial Cup tournaments two more times in 2000 and 2019.\nThe Halifax Thunderbirds became the city's National Lacrosse League team in September 2018, when it moved from Rochester. On March 12, 2020, their inaugural season was cut short by the COVID-19 pandemic. Still, the team received two league awards: Defensive Player of the Year and Executive of the Year. In the 2021\u20132022 season, they reached their first playoffs, where they were defeated by the Toronto Rock 14\u201313 in overtime in the conference semi-final.\nIn 2019, HFX Wanderers FC debuted as an expansion club in the Canadian Premier League (CPL)\u2014Canada's professional men's soccer league. In 2025, Halifax Tides FC debuted as a founding member of the Northern Super League (NSL), a newly established professional women's soccer league.\nThe Halifax Hoopers began play in The Basketball League in 2025, returning professional basketball to the area after the closure of the Halifax Hurricanes.\nHalifax has been a recurring subject of proposed expansion teams in the Canadian Football League; the Atlantic Schooners were proposed in the 1980s as a Halifax-based expansion team that would play out of Dartmouth, but folded after failing to secure funding for a stadium. A second attempt at the Schooners was pursued by an ownership group known as Schooners Sports and Entertainment in the 2010s; in an effort to gauge interest in the franchise, the group hosted the neutral-site Touchdown Atlantic game at Huskies Stadium in 2023, marking the first regular-season CFL game played in Halifax. The Schooners Sports and Entertainment bid also collapsed, after the ownership group was unable to secure a deal for a stadium in Dartmouth.\nFormer professional teams.\nThe city had a team in the National Basketball League of Canada (NBL Canada) called the Halifax Hurricanes. The team succeeded the Halifax Rainmen who had previously played in the American Basketball Association and Premier Basketball League before joining the NBL Canada and later declaring bankruptcy in July 2015. The Hurricanes won the NBL Canada championship in their inaugural season. The Hurricanes have since ceased operations.\nBetween 1971 and 1993, Halifax was home to three teams in the American Hockey League. The Nova Scotia Voyageurs (Montreal Canadiens affiliate), the Nova Scotia Oilers (Edmonton Oilers affiliate) and finally, the Halifax Citadels (Quebec Nordiques affiliate) played from 1971 to 1984, 1984 to 1988, and 1988 to 1993, respectively.\nThe Nova Scotia Clippers were a team in the original Canadian Soccer League (1987\u20131992) for its 1991 season.\nThe Halifax Crescents, an amateur and later, professional ice hockey team challenged for the Stanley Cup in 1900 but lost to the Montreal Shamrocks.\nUniversity sports.\nHalifax is home to seven degree-granting post-secondary educational institutions with four of them having athletic programmes. Two of the schools, Dalhousie University and Saint Mary's University are part of the U Sports league, while Mount Saint Vincent University and University of King's College are a part of the Canadian Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA).\nDalhousie University's varsity team goes by the moniker Tigers. They have teams for basketball, hockey, soccer, swimming, track and field, cross country running, and volleyball. The Tigers garnered a number of championships in the first decade of the 20th century, winning 63 AUS championships and two U Sports championships.\nHalifax's other U Sports university, located in close proximity to Dalhousie University, is Saint Mary's University with the moniker of the Huskies. Known for their football programme, the Huskies play at Huskies Stadium and won back-to-back Canadian University Football Championships (2001 &amp; 2002), only the third university to do so.\nFinally, two of Halifax's smaller universities are part of the Canadian Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA). Mount Saint Vincent University, home to the Mystics, competes in the Atlantic Collegiate Athletic Association (ACAA), a member of the CCAA, in Women's &amp; Men's Basketball, Women's &amp; Men's Soccer, Cross Country and Women's Volleyball. The Mystics hold a championship titles in all sports, making them the most acclaimed team of the ACAA division. University of King's College is also a member of the ACAA. The varsity athletics teams at the University of King's College are named the Blue Devils. Sporting teams include men's and women's basketball, soccer, badminton and rugby, and women's volleyball.\nFrom 1984 to 2007, the region was home to the CIS Men's Basketball Championship; the tournament was moved to Ottawa, Ontario, from 2008 to 2010 and returned to Halifax in 2011 and 2012.\nEvents.\nOver the past several decades, Halifax has hosted many major sporting events, including the following:\nHalifax was selected in 2006 as the host municipality in Canada's bid for the 2014 Commonwealth Games but withdrew on March 8, 2007, citing ballooning costs from final estimates of $1.7 billion up from $785 million.\nDemographics.\nHalifax CMA.\nAt the census metropolitan area (CMA) level in the 2021 census, the Halifax CMA had a population of living in of its total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nHalifax Regional Municipality.\nIn the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, the Halifax Regional Municipality had a population of 439,819 living in 190,512 of its 200,473 total private dwellings, a change of from its 2016 population of 403,131. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2021.\nThe 2021 census reported that immigrants (individuals born outside Canada) comprise 50,595 persons or 12.6% of the total population of Halifax. Of the total immigrant population, the top countries of origin were United Kingdom (6,345 persons or 12.5%), India (4,785 persons or 9.5%), China (3,740 persons or 7.4%), United States of America (3,545 persons or 7.0%), Philippines (3,415 persons or 6.7%), Syria (2,085 persons or 4.1%), Nigeria (1,625 persons or 3.2%), Lebanon (1,340 persons or 2.6%), South Korea (1,020 persons or 2.0%), and Iran (980 persons or 1.9%).\nLanguage.\nMother tongue language (2021)\nReligion.\nSt. Paul's Church is the oldest Christian church in Halifax.\nHalifax is a religiously diverse municipality, and has several landmark religious institutions: \nHalifax also houses the Atlantic School of Theology for religious studies.\nReligion (2021)\nHalifax urban area.\nAs of 2021, the population centre (urban area) of Halifax housed 348,634 people living in 154,883 of its 162,336 total private dwellings. The human population density of Halifax's population centre was approximately .\nBetween 2016 and 2021, the urban area (\"population centre\") and municipal areas experienced strong growth. Over that time-frame; the municipality added 36,688 people (an increase of over 9.1%), and the urban area (\"population centre\") added 31,300 people (an increase of over 9.8%).\nEconomy.\nThe urban area of Halifax is a major economic centre in eastern Canada with a large concentration of government services and private sector companies. Halifax serves as the business, banking, government and cultural centre for the Maritime region. The largest employment sectors within the municipality include trade (36,400 jobs), health care and social\nassistance (31,800 jobs), professional services (19,000 jobs), education (17,400 jobs), and public administration (15,800 jobs). The Halifax economy is growing, with the Conference Board of Canada predicting strong 3.0% GDP growth for 2015.\nMajor employers and economic generators include the Department of National Defence, the Port of Halifax, Irving Shipbuilding, the Nova Scotia Health Authority, IMP Group, Bell Aliant, Emera, the Bedford Institute of Oceanography, government, banks, and universities. The municipality has a growing concentration of manufacturing industries and is becoming a major multi-modal transportation hub through growth at the port, the Halifax Stanfield International Airport, and improving rail and highway connections. Halifax is one of Canada's top four container ports in terms of the volume of cargo handled. A real estate boom in recent years has led to numerous new property developments, including the gentrification of some former working-class areas.\nAgriculture, fishing, mining, forestry and natural gas extraction are major resource industries found in the rural areas of the municipality. Halifax's largest agricultural district is in the Musquodoboit Valley; the total number of farms in Halifax is 150, of which 110 are family-owned. Fishing harbours are located along all coastal areas with some having an independent harbour authority, such as the Sheet Harbour Industrial Port, and others being managed as small craft harbours under the federal Fisheries and Oceans Canada.\nGovernment.\nThe Halifax Regional Municipality is governed by a mayor (elected at large) and a sixteen-person council. Councillors are elected by geographic district, with municipal elections occurring every four years. The current mayor of Halifax is Andy Fillmore. The Halifax Regional Council is responsible for all facets of municipal government, including the Halifax Regional Police, Halifax Public Libraries, Halifax Fire and Emergency, Halifax Regional Water Commission, parks and recreation, civic addressing, public works, waste management, and planning and development. The provincial legislation that provides governance oversight to the municipality is the Halifax Regional Municipality Charter. The municipality has a proposed operating budget of $869\u00a0million for 2015\u20132016.\nThe municipality also has four community councils that consider local matters. Each community council comprises five or six regional councillors representing neighbouring districts. Most community council decisions are subject to final approval by regional council.\nAs the capital of Nova Scotia, Halifax is also the meeting place of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly, the oldest assembly in Canada and the site of the first responsible government in British North America. The legislature meets in Province House, a nearly 200-year-old National Historic Site in downtown Halifax hailed as one of the finest examples of Palladian architecture in North America.\nThe municipality is represented in the House of Commons by six MPs, elected in the ridings of Halifax, Halifax West, Dartmouth\u2014Cole Harbour, Sackville\u2014Preston\u2014Chezzetcook, South Shore\u2014St. Margarets, and Central Nova. The latter two ridings also include rural areas outside the municipality.\nEducation.\nHalifax has a well-developed network of public and private schools, providing instruction from grade primary to grade twelve; 137 public schools are administered by the Halifax Regional Centre for Education, while eight public schools are administered by the Conseil scolaire acadien provincial. The municipality's fourteen private schools are operated independently.\nTransportation.\nAir.\nHalifax Stanfield International Airport serves Halifax and most of the province, providing scheduled flights to domestic and international destinations. The airport served 3,107,425 passengers in 2022, making it Canada's sixth busiest airport by passenger traffic. Shearwater, part of CFB Halifax, is the air base for maritime helicopters employed by the Royal Canadian Navy and is located on the eastern side of Halifax Harbour.\nCycling.\nIn recent years, the municipality has also begun to place increased emphasis on developing bicycling infrastructure. Halifax has developed of bikeways, of which are dedicated bicycle lanes.\nRoad.\nThe urban core is linked by the Angus L. Macdonald and A. Murray MacKay suspension bridges, as well as the network of 100-series highways which function as expressways.\nPublic transit.\nPublic transit is provided by Halifax Transit, which operates standard bus routes, regional express bus routes, as well as the pedestrian-only Halifax-Dartmouth Ferry Service. Established in 1752, the municipality's ferry service is the oldest continuously running salt water ferry service in North America.\nRail.\nThe Halifax Port Authority's various shipping terminals constitute the eastern terminus of Canadian National Railway's transcontinental network. Via Rail Canada provides overnight passenger rail service from the Halifax Railway Station three days a week to Montreal with the \"Ocean\", a train equipped with sleeper cars that stops in major centres along the way, such as Moncton. The Halifax Railway Station also serves as the terminus for Maritime Bus, which serves destinations across the Maritimes.\nWater.\nHalifax Harbour is a major port used by numerous shipping lines, administered by the Halifax Port Authority. The Royal Canadian Navy and the Canadian Coast Guard have major installations along prominent sections of coastline in both Halifax and Dartmouth. The harbour is also home to a public ferry service connecting downtown Halifax to two locations in Dartmouth, with plans in development to add an additional ferry route connecting downtown and Bedford by 2028.\nSheet Harbour is the other major port in the municipality and serves industrial users on the Eastern Shore."}
{"id": "731834", "revid": "48961011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731834", "title": "Strange Highways", "text": "Strange Highways is the sixth studio album by American heavy metal band Dio, released on October 25, 1993, through Vertigo Records in Europe, and on January 26, 1994, through Reprise Records in the U.S. It was the band\u2019s first album since Ronnie James Dio and Vinny Appice's reunion tour with Black Sabbath, and the first to feature guitarist Tracy Grijalva and bassist Jeff Pilson. Recorded at Rumbo Recorders in Los Angeles, California, the album was produced, mixed, and engineered by Mike Fraiser, while its cover art was designed by Wil Rees.\nUpon release, the album would receive generally positive reviews from critics, but showed a continued commercial decline, debuting at No. 142 on the Billboard 200. This decline would continue throughout the 1990\u2019s until the release of \"Magica\" in 2000.\nBackground and recording.\nIn 1992, the English Rock band Black Sabbath would release \"Dehumanizer\", which was the first album to feature Dio and Appice since 1981\u2019s \"Mob Rules\". The album notably had a troubled production, as songs had to be rewritten multiple times. Despite this, it was Black Sabbath\u2019s biggest commercial success in a decade, and would shortly thereafter launch a tour to further capitalize on this success. During the tour, however, Dio would leave the band a second time after the band was invited by Ozzy Osbourne to perform on his No More Tours tour. Following the short-lived reunion, Dio and Appice returned to Dio's solo group, hiring Tracy Grijalva as new guitarist. Former Dio bassist Jimmy Bain was to make a return to the band, but he was soon sacked by Dio and replaced by Jeff Pilson.\nParts of \"Hollywood Black\" were demoed by Black Sabbath during the Dehumanizer sessions. \"Whether it's the same, I don't know\u2026\" Tony Iommi remarked of Dio's version (before hearing it). \"Could be the same lyrics \u2013 probably is. I wouldn't think he would use the same music.\"\nCritical reception.\n\"Strange Highways\" received generally favorable reviews from critics. Allmusic reviewer Jason Anderson would compliment Dio\u2019s vocals and Grijalva\u2019s guitar playing, and described the album as a \u201csolid effort\u201d.\nPersonnel.\nDio\nProduction"}
{"id": "731837", "revid": "1672681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731837", "title": "Tailhook Incident", "text": ""}
{"id": "731838", "revid": "24080262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731838", "title": "Tailhook incident", "text": ""}
{"id": "731839", "revid": "80913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731839", "title": "Kingdom of Britain", "text": "The Kingdom of Britain may refer to:"}
{"id": "731840", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731840", "title": "Ogatsu, Mono, Miyagi", "text": ""}
{"id": "731841", "revid": "44141905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731841", "title": "Tomasi Puapua", "text": "Sir Tomasi Puapua (born 10 September 1938) is a political figure who represented Vaitupu in the Parliament of Tuvalu. He attended the Fiji School of Medicine and the Otago University Medical School. He married Riana Puapua.\nPrime minister.\nHe was the second Prime Minister of Tuvalu from 8 September 1981 to 16 October 1989. In a country which sees frequent changes among its head of government, Puapua also held the role as foreign minister.\nThe first elections after independence will not held until 8 September 1981. 26 candidates contested the 12 seats. Puapua was elected as prime minister with a 7:5 majority over the group a members of parliament headed by former Prime Minister Toaripi Lauti. Tomasi Puapua was re-elected in the general election held on 12 September 1985 continued as Prime Minister.\nThe next general election was held on 26 March 1989. In the subsequent parliament the members elected Bikenibeu Paeniu.\nFollowing the general election that was held on 25 November 1993 the members of parliament were evenly split in their support of the incumbent Prime Minister Bikenibeu Paeniu and Tomasi Puapua. As a consequence, the Governor-General dissolved the parliament on 22 September and a further election took place on 25 November 1993. The subsequent parliament elected Kamuta Latasi as prime minister on 10 December 1993.\nSpeaker.\nHe was elected Speaker of the Parliament of Tuvalu (Palamene o Tuvalu) during government of Kamuta Latasi from 1993 to 1998.\nGovernor-General.\nHaving exercised the senior executive office for many years, Puapua later served as Governor-General of Tuvalu as the representative of Elizabeth II, Queen of Tuvalu from 1998 to 2003, which is a higher office in protocol terms, but is more ceremonial in nature.\nCommonwealth honours.\nIn the 1998 Birthday Honours, Puapua was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) for services to medicine, politics and the community.\nIn 2002, Puapua was appointed to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George (GCMG)."}
{"id": "731842", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731842", "title": "Dresden Massacre", "text": ""}
{"id": "731843", "revid": "8766034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731843", "title": "Behavioural finance", "text": "Behavioural finance is the study of the influence of psychology on the behaviour of investors or financial analysts. It assumes that investors are not always rational, have limits to their self-control and are influenced by their own biases. \nFor example, behavioural law and economics scholars studying the growth of financial firms' technological capabilities have attributed decision science to irrational consumer decisions. It also includes the subsequent effects on the markets. Behavioral Finance attempts to explain the reasoning patterns of investors and measures the influential power of these patterns on the investor's decision making. The central issue in behavioural finance is explaining why market participants make irrational systematic errors contrary to assumption of rational market participants. Such errors affect prices and returns, creating market inefficiencies.\nHistory.\nTraditional finance.\nThe accepted theories of finance are referred to as traditional finance. The foundation of traditional finance is associated with the modern portfolio theory (MPT) and the efficient-market hypothesis (EMH). Modern portfolio theory is based on a stock or portfolio's expected return, standard deviation, and its correlation with the other assets held within the portfolio. With these three concepts, an efficient portfolio can be created for any group of assets. An efficient portfolio is a group of assets that has the maximum expected return given the amount of risk. The efficient-market hypothesis states that all public information is already reflected in a security's price. The proponents of the traditional theories believe that \"investors should just own the entire market rather than attempting to outperform the market\". Behavioral finance has emerged as an alternative to these theories of traditional finance and the behavioural aspects of psychology and sociology are integral catalysts within this field of study.\nEvolution.\nThe foundations of behavioural finance can be traced back over 150 years. Several original books written in the 1800s and early 1900s marked the beginning of the behavioural finance school. Originally published in 1841, MacKay's \"Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds\" presents a chronological timeline of the various panics and schemes throughout history. This work shows how group behaviour applies to the financial markets of today. Le Bon's important work, \"\", discusses the role of \"crowds\" (also known as crowd psychology) and group behaviour as they apply to the fields of behavioural finance, social psychology, sociology and history. Selden's 1912 book \"Psychology of The Stock Market\" applies the field of psychology directly to the stock market and discusses the emotional and psychological forces at work on investors and traders in the financial markets. These three works along with several others form the foundation of applying psychology and sociology to the field of finance. The foundation of behavioural finance is an area based on an interdisciplinary approach including scholars from the social sciences and business schools. From the liberal arts perspective, this includes the fields of psychology, sociology, anthropology, economics and behavioural economics. On the business administration side, this covers areas such as management, marketing, finance, technology and accounting.\nCritics contend that behavioural finance is more a collection of anomalies than a true branch of finance and that these anomalies are either quickly priced out of the market or explained by appealing to market microstructure arguments. However, individual cognitive biases are distinct from social biases; the former can be averaged out by the market, while the other can create positive feedback loops that drive the market further and further from a \"fair price\" equilibrium. It is observed that, the problem with the general area of behavioural finance is that it only serves as a complement to general economics. Similarly, for an anomaly to violate market efficiency, an investor must be able to trade against it and earn abnormal profits; this is not the case for many anomalies. A specific example of this criticism appears in some explanations of the equity premium puzzle. It is argued that the cause is entry barriers (both practical and psychological) and that the equity premium should reduce as electronic resources open up the stock market to more traders. In response, others contend that most personal investment funds are managed through superannuation funds, minimising the effect of these putative entry barriers. In addition, professional investors and fund managers seem to hold more bonds than one would expect given return differentials.\nQuantitative behavioural finance.\nQuantitative behavioural finance uses mathematical and statistical methodology to understand behavioural biases.\nSome financial models used in money management and asset valuation, as well as more theoretical models, likewise, incorporate behavioural finance parameters. Examples:\nQuantitative behavioural finance is a new discipline that uses mathematical and statistical methodology to understand behavioural biases in conjunction with valuation. \nThe research can be grouped into the following areas:\nHistory.\nThe prevalent theory of financial markets during the second half of the 20th century has been the efficient market hypothesis (EMH) which states that all public information is incorporated into asset prices. Any deviation from this true price is quickly exploited by informed traders who attempt to optimise their returns and it restores the true equilibrium price. For all practical purposes, then, market prices behave as though all traders were pursuing their self-interest with complete information and rationality.\nToward the end of the 20th century, this theory was challenged in several ways. First, there were a number of large market events that cast doubt on the basic assumptions. On 19 October 1987 the Dow Jones average plunged over 20% in a single day, as many smaller stocks suffered deeper losses. The large oscillations on the ensuing days provided a graph that resembled the famous crash of 1929. The crash of 1987 provided a puzzle and challenge to most economists who had believed that such volatility should not exist in an age when information and capital flows are much more efficient than they were in the 1920s.\nAs the decade continued, the Japanese market soared to heights that were far from any realistic assessment of the valuations. Price-earnings ratios soared to triple digits, as Nippon Telephone and Telegraph achieved a market valuation (stock market price times the number of shares) that exceeded the entire market capitalisation of West Germany. In early 1990 the Nikkei index stood at 40,000, having nearly doubled in two years. In less than a year the Nikkei dropped to nearly half its peak.\nMeanwhile, in the US the growth of new technology, particularly the internet, spawned a new generation of high tech companies, some of which became publicly traded long before any profits. As in the Japanese stock market bubble a decade earlier these stocks soared to market valuations of billions of dollars sometimes before they even had revenue. The bubble continued into 2000 and the consequent bust reduced many of these stocks to a few per cent of their prior market value. Even some large and profitable tech companies lost 80% of their value during the period 2000-2003.\nThese large bubbles and crashes in the absence of significant changes in valuation cast doubt on the assumption of efficient markets that incorporate all public information accurately. In his book, \u201cIrrational Exuberance\u201d, Robert Shiller discusses the excesses that have plagued markets, and concludes that stock prices move in excess of changes in valuation. This line of reasoning has also been confirmed in several studies (e.g., Jeffrey Pontiff ), of closed-end funds which trade like stocks, but have a precise valuation that is reported frequently. (See Seth Anderson and Jeffrey Born \u201cClosed-end Fund Pricing\u201d for review of papers relating to these\nissues.)\nIn addition to these world developments, other challenges to classical economics and EMH came from the new field of experimental economics pioneered by Vernon L. Smith who won the 2002 Nobel Prize in Economics. These experiments (in collaboration with Gerry Suchanek, Arlington Williams and David Porter and others) featuring participants trading an asset defined by the experimenters on a network of computers. A series of experiments involved a single asset which pays a fixed dividend during each of 15 periods and then becomes worthless. Contrary to the expectations of classical economics, trading prices often soar to levels much higher than the expected payout. Similarly, other experiments showed that many of the expected results of classical economics and game theory are not borne out in experiments. A key part of these experiments is that participants earn real money as a consequence of their trading decisions, so that the experiment is an actual market rather than a survey of opinion.\nBehavioral finance (BF) is a field that has grown during the past two decades in part as a reaction to the phenomena described above. Using a variety of methods researchers have documented systematic biases (e.g., underreaction, overreaction, etc.) that occur among professional investors as well as novices. Behavioral finance researchers generally do not subscribe to EMH as a consequence of these biases. However, EMH theorists counter that while EMH makes a precise prediction about a market based upon the data, BF usually does not go beyond saying that EMH is wrong.\nResearch.\nThe attempt to quantify basic biases and to use them in mathematical models is the subject of Quantitative Behavioral Finance. Caginalp and collaborators have used both statistical and mathematical methods on both the world market data and experimental economics data in order to make quantitative predictions. In a series of papers dating back to 1989, Caginalp and collaborators have studied asset market dynamics using differential equations that incorporate strategies and biases of investors such as the price trend and valuation within a system that has finite cash and asset. This feature is distinct from classical finance in which there is the assumption of infinite arbitrage.\nOne of the predictions of this theory by Caginalp and Balenovich (1999) was that a larger supply of cash per share would result in a larger bubble. Experiments by Caginalp, Porter and Smith (1998) confirmed that doubling the level of cash, for example, while maintaining constant number of shares essentially doubles the magnitude of the bubble.\nUsing the differential equations to predict experimental markets as they evolved also proved successful, as the equations were approximately as accurate as human forecasters who had been selected as the best traders of previous experiments (Caginalp, Porter and Smith).\nThe challenge of using these ideas to forecast price dynamics in financial markets has been the focus of some of the recent work that has merged two different mathematical methods. The differential equations can be used in conjunction with statistical methods to provide short term forecasts.\nOne of the difficulties in understanding the dynamics of financial markets has been the presence of \u201cnoise\u201d (Fischer Black). Random world events are always making changes in valuations that are difficult to extract from any deterministic forces that may be present. Consequently, many statistical studies have only shown a negligible non-random component. For example, Poterba and Summers demonstrate a tiny trend effect in stock prices. White showed that using neural networks with 500 days of IBM stock was unsuccessful in terms of short term forecasts.\nIn both of these examples, the level of \u201cnoise\u201d or changes in valuation apparently exceeds any possible behavioural effects. A methodology that avoids this pitfall has been developed during the past decade. If one can subtract out the valuation as it varies in time, one can study the remaining behavioural effects, if any. An early study along these lines (Caginalp and Greg Consantine) studied the ratio of two clone closed-end funds. Since these funds had the same portfolio but traded independently, the ratio is independent of valuation. A statistical time series study showed that this ratio was highly non-random, and that the best predictor of tomorrow\u2019s price is not today\u2019s price (as suggested by EMH) but halfway between the price and the price trend.\nThe subject of overreactions has also been important in behavioural finance. In his 2006 PhD thesis, Duran examined 130,000 data points of daily prices for closed-end funds in terms of their deviation from the net asset value (NAV). Funds exhibiting a large deviation from NAV were likely to behave in the opposite direction of the subsequent day. Even more interesting was the statistical observation that a large deviation in the opposite direction preceded such large deviations. These precursors may suggest that an underlying cause of these large moves\u2014in the absence of significant change in valuation\u2014may be due to the positioning of traders in advance of anticipated news. For example, suppose many traders are anticipating positive news and buy the stock. If the positive news does not materialise they are inclined to sell in large numbers, thereby suppressing the price significantly below the previous levels. This interpretation is inconsistent with EMH but is consistent with asset flow differential equations (AFDE) that incorporate behavioural concepts with the finiteness of assets. Research continues on efforts to optimise the parameters of the asset flow equations in order to forecast near term prices (see Duran and Caginalp ).\nIt is important to classify the behaviour of solutions for the dynamical system of nonlinear differential equations. Duran studied the stability analysis of the solutions for the dynamical system of nonlinear AFDEs in R^4, in three versions, analytically and numerically. He found the existence of the infinitely many fixed points (equilibrium points) for the first two versions. He concluded that these versions of AFDEs are structurally unstable systems mathematically by using an extension of the Peixoto Theorem for two-dimensional manifolds to a four-dimensional manifold. Moreover, he obtained that there is no critical point (equilibrium point) if the chronic discount over the past finite time interval is nonzero for the third version of AFDEs."}
{"id": "731844", "revid": "61482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731844", "title": "Non-confidence motion", "text": ""}
{"id": "731853", "revid": "33299132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731853", "title": "USS Crommelin", "text": "USS \"Crommelin\" (FFG-37), twenty-eighth ship of the of guided-missile frigates, was named for five brothers: Rear Admiral John G. Crommelin (1902\u20131996), Vice Admiral Henry Crommelin (1904\u20131971), Commander Charles L. Crommelin (1909\u20131945), Lieutenant Commander Richard Crommelin (1917\u20131945), and Captain Quentin C. Crommelin (1919\u20131997). The Crommelin brothers were the only group of five siblings ever to graduate from the United States Naval Academy. Four of them became pilots, and Time magazine dubbed them \"The Indestructibles.\" The brothers saw action in more than ten campaigns in the Pacific Theater. Henry, the second-oldest, became a Surface Warfare Officer while Richard and Charles died in combat as naval aviators in 1945. Individually and as a fighting family, they gained fame in World War II, attaining outstanding combat records and multiple decorations. \"Crommelin\" (FFG-37) is the first ship of that name in the United States Navy.\nOrdered from Todd Pacific Shipyard, Seattle, Washington on 27 April 1979 as part of the Fiscal year 1979 program, \"Crommelin\" was laid down on 30 May 1980, launched on 2 July 1981, and commissioned on 18 June 1983.\nAfter three decades of service, \"Crommelin\" was decommissioned in a ceremony at Pearl Harbor, 26 October 2012. It had rescued 96 people from the high seas and seized roughly $1.25 billion worth of cocaine over its lifetime.\nOperational history.\n\"Crommelin\" was assigned to Destroyer Squadron 9 and reached its homeport of Long Beach, California in August 1983. Underway from Long Beach on 1 October 1984 to join Battle Group 'DELTA' for COMPTUEX 85-1, HSL-41, Detachment ONE embarked.\nOn 14 January 1985, the ship was underway from San Diego for READIEX 85-1, the second major fleet exercise for LAMPS MK III, Helicopter Anti-Submarine Squadron Light, Four Three, Detachment ONE embarked USS Crommelin. At sea commander of Battle Group DELTA, Rear Admiral Leon A Edney, USN, Commander Carrier Group 1, embarked aboard the aircraft carrier . Later that year Battle Group Delta, the \"Constellation\" Battle Group, deployed to the western Pacific and Indian Oceans. During this deployment, \"Crommelin\" became the first guided missile frigate to successfully engage a high-speed, maneuvering target with missiles. Just before reaching Naval Station Subic Bay, the Philippines, \"Crommelin\" changed command in the presence of Commander, Carrier Group 1, and Commander, Destroyer Squadron 17. It was also the first ship to complete an operational deployment with the LAMPS MK III weapon system. In June 1986, \"Crommelin\" received the first Chief of Naval Operations LAMPS MK III Safety Award.\nIn the summer of 1986, \"Crommelin\" was awarded every departmental and divisional excellence award and won its first Navy \"E\" award. In 1987, \"Crommelin\" was assigned to Destroyer Squadron 13 and began an accelerated deployment with the \"Constellation\" battle group. \"Crommelin\" was the first FFG to deploy with two LAMPS MK III helicopters embarked. \"Crommelin\" was assigned to Commander, Middle East Force from 1 July to 25 August 1987, earning a Meritorious Unit Commendation and Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal for the convoy escort of the first five reflagged Kuwaiti tankers in Operation Earnest Will.\nOn 1 January 1988, \"Crommelin\" was reassigned to Destroyer Squadron 9, and on 6 March 1988, the ship received a second consecutive Navy \"E\" award. Upon completion of its second availability period at Todd Pacific Shipyard, \"Crommelin\" was deployed in March 1989 again to the Persian Gulf. In October 1990 \"Crommelin\" was deployed in support of joint service, counternarcotics operations in the Central, South American, and Caribbean theater. \"Crommelin\" was awarded the Joint Meritorious Unit Award for its performance during this deployment. In 1991, \"Crommelin\" received the Navy \"E\" as well as its fifth consecutive warfare excellence awards for anti-air and anti-surface warfare, navigation and seamanship, damage control, engineering, and communications. On 1 September 1991, \"Crommelin\" shifted homeports to Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, and joined Destroyer Squadron 31.\n\"Crommelin\" completed a second four-month counternarcotics deployment in the Central, South American and Caribbean theater from November 1992 to March 1993. Upon return to its homeport of Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, \"Crommelin\" was assigned to Commander Naval Surface Group, Middle Pacific.\nFrom 6 July to 14 December 1994, \"Crommelin\" was assigned to the battle group in the Western Pacific for Korean contingency operations. There, \"Crommelin\" received the Meritorious Unit Commendation Award for the prosecution of a Chinese Han class submarine. Upon completion of this deployment she underwent dry-docking SRA-5 at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard, following which she began the cycle for her 1996 Western Pacific deployment with the battle group.\nAfter a three-month work up cycle, \"Crommelin\" deployed with the \"Carl Vinson\" battle group on 20 May 1996. This deployment took \"Crommelin\" and her crew back to the Persian Gulf for a variety of missions, including escorting ships through the Straits of Hormuz, patrolling the Northern Persian Gulf, and conducting maritime interception operations. \"Crommelin\" returned from that deployment on 20 November 1996.\nFollowing WESTPAC 96, \"Crommelin\" entered SRA-6 from January to March 1997. \"Crommelin\" received upgrades to all major weapons systems as well as the engineering plant. Following this availability, \"Crommelin\" and her crew began yet another work up cycle to prepare for her fifth deployment to the Persian Gulf as part of the U.S. 5th Fleet. \"Crommelin\" departed Pearl Harbor on 21 February 1998. During this deployment \"Crommelin\" distinguished herself by setting a Fifth Fleet record for number of vessels boarded and tonnage of illegal Iraqi petroleum seized and diverted.\n\"Crommelin\" completed a demanding nine-week private sector SRA in early 1999, where she made major repairs and upgrades throughout the ship. Immediately following the SRA, \"Crommelin\" aggressively entered the inter-deployment training cycle and proceeded to set numerous records throughout her training. Chief among these was condensing what is normally a twelve-week training cycle into nine weeks. Other achievements were completing cruise missile test qualification on the first day of training and completing engineering qualification with 100% of drills and 28 of 29 evolutions graded as \"satisfactory\".\nWith her training cycle complete, \"Crommelin\" departed Pearl Harbor on 24 August 1999 for a three-month deployment to the Eastern Pacific in support of counter narcotics operations. During this deployment, \"Crommelin\" steamed 77 of 92 days, flew more than 350 mishap-free SH-60B flight hours, and was a key player in four major cocaine seizures. Upon her return to Pearl Harbor on 24 November 1999, \"Crommelin\" immediately began the work up cycle for her next deployment with the battle group in August 2000.\nIn February 2000, \"Crommelin\" was awarded the Battle \"E\" for Destroyer Squadron 31 as well as each of the four command excellence awards. Other accomplishments included the 1999 Commander in Chief, Pacific Fleet Retention Excellence Award, 1999, Commander, Naval Surface Forces Pacific (COMNAVSURFPAC) Surface Ship Safety Award, COMNAVSURFPAC Self-Sufficient Ship of the Quarter Award (Q4 FY99 and Q2 FY00), and the distinction of being the first Pearl Harbor ship to hoist the Enlisted Surface Warfare Specialist Pennant.\nDuring WESTPAC 2000, eighteen non-compliant vessels were boarded by \"Crommelin\"s Visit Board Search and Seizure Team, twelve were found to be smuggling petroleum products from Iraq and diverted to friendly ports for disposal of the ships and their illegal cargo. On the eve of the homecoming from deployment, \"Crommelin\" received her second consecutive Battle Efficiency Award.\nFrom 18 April 2001 to June 2001, \"Crommelin\" was dry-docked at Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard for Dry-dock Selected Restricted Availability. In January 2002 \"Crommelin\" received the 2001 COMNAVSURFPAC Surface Ship Safety Award.\nFrom 12 May 2004 to 12 November 2004, \"Crommelin\" was deployed to the SOUTHPAC AOR with Coast Guard Law Enforcement Detachment (LEDET) 105 in support of the war on drugs, conducting counter-narcotics operations in the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea. In that time, she became the most second most successful counter-narcotics ship with the seizure of of cocaine, including 26,369 pounds from the Belize-flagged vessel San Jose on 23 September 2004. She held that record until the bust of the Panamanian flagged motor vessel Gatun off the coast of Panama in March 2007, carrying approximately of cocaine. During this deployment, America's Battle Frigate also participated in exercises UNITAS-04 and PANAMAX-04, training the Navies and Coast Guards of various Central- and South-American countries in counter-narcotics and counter-terrorism tactics at sea.\nFrom 5 May 2006 to 15 September 2006, she participated in CARAT-06, along with , , and . In that time, Task Group 73.1 trained the Navies of several Southeast Asian countries in Maritime boarding and counter-terrorism tactics. Upon returning to home port, she entered an intensive dry dock period and as of May 2007, is preparing herself for continued operations in the wars on terror and drugs.\nIn November 2007 \"Crommelin\" Deployed to the Southcom AOR insupport of Counter. On Christmas Eve 2007 \"Crommelin\" stopped a 'go-fast' drug runner near the coast of Columbia carrying of cocaine. \"Crommelin\" boarded close to 20 vessels involved in drug running operations during her 7-month deployment. Nearing the end of the deployment the frigate was awaiting the arrival of the aircraft carrier into the Eastern Pacific AOR for a refueling operation. As the two ships came alongside each other \"George Washington\" had a major fire break out onboard damaging 92 spaces within as well as shutting down part of their nuclear reactor. She quickly made for San Diego to conduct repairs while \"Crommelin\" was left short on food and even lower on fuel. The frigate had to make an emergency stop in Mexico to refuel both food and fuel to make it back to Hawaii in June 2008. After a successful deployment \"Crommelin\" entered dry dock in October 2008 for repairs to keep her operational throughout the next decade. In 2010, \"Crommelin\" was again awarded the Battle \"E\" for Destroyer Squadron 31.\n\"Crommelin\" was decommissioned ahead of schedule at a ceremony in Pearl Harbor, 26 October 2012. \"Crommelin\"s last contribution was as a SINKEX target ship during the major multi-nation naval exercise RIMPAC 2016. attempted to hit \"Crommelin\" with the first ever LCS-launched Harpoon surface-to-surface missile. However, the weapon missed. \"Crommelin\" succumbed to multiple hits from other SINKEX participants and sank later in the evening on 19 July 2016. Her final resting place is approximately .\nShip's crest.\nThe colors blue and gold are traditionally associated with the U.S. Navy. The three interlaced chevronels represent the Crommelin brothers after whom the ship is named. The two winged chevronels refer to the air exploits of Lieutenant Commander Richard and Commander Charles Crommelin who served and died as Naval aviators. The central chevronel over which an anchor is placed alludes to the surface ship career of Vice Admiral Henry Crommelin, the second-oldest and first to serve of the brothers.\nThe linked chevronels suggest the strength and determination of U.S. naval forces in their efforts to regain enemy held territories of the Pacific Ocean throughout World War II. It was in this effort that the Crommelin brothers so distinguished themselves.\nThe rampant sea lion is a symbolic creature associated with valor at sea; its head and mane are scarlet for courage and its body is gold for zeal and achievement. The scarlet sword recalls the fierce conflict of the Pacific war. The wings and silver collar with blue cross signify some of the decorations the brothers received, such as the Navy Cross, the Silver Star and the Distinguished Flying Cross."}
{"id": "731854", "revid": "16185737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731854", "title": "Thomas Green Clemson", "text": "Thomas Green Clemson (July 1, 1807April 6, 1888) was an American politician and statesman who served as Charg\u00e9 d'Affaires to Belgium and United States Superintendent of Agriculture. He founded Clemson University in Clemson, South Carolina, served in the Confederate States army and was a prominent slave owner.\nLife and education.\nBorn in Philadelphia, Clemson was the son of Thomas Green Clemson III and Elizabeth Baker. He was descended from Quaker roots, and his mother was Episcopalian. His first ancestor in America was James Clemson I, who settled from Tettenhall, England, to the British Thirteen Colonies (later known as the United States). Partly because of this mixed religious background, Clemson's personal religious belief is not well documented. In 1813, his father died, and his father's second cousin, John Gest, was appointed guardian over him and his five siblings. Clemson was one beneficiary of his father's life savings of $100,000 ($ today), which was split among him and his siblings. Little is known about his home life, but his schooling started in the winter of 1814, as he, as well as the older Clemsons, attended day school at Tabernacle Presbyterian Church. There is no knowledge as to exactly how long Thomas attended day school, but from 1823 to 1825, Clemson was educated at Alden Partridge's Military Academy in Vermont, also known as Norwich University. Clemson's older brother, who had recently graduated from Princeton, sent Thomas a letter outlining the courses and subjects that he should study. He completed those studies sometime in late 1825, and returned to Philadelphia in 1825, where he started studying mineralogy. Sometime in 1826 Clemson left for Paris, France.\nParis, France.\nHis departure date, the ship name, and where he landed in France are unknown. Among the few surviving documents of his time in Paris is a letter that he wrote to his mother; it did not include anything about his scientific study, but did vaguely reference that he had a particular interest in expanding his knowledge. In addition, the letter states that if he were to die, all of his wealth should be left to his mother and then, after her death, it would be left to any of his unmarried sisters. In 1826\u201327, he expanded his knowledge of practical laboratory chemistry while working with chemist Gaultier de Clowbry and furthered his chemistry study by working with other Parisian chemists. He further trained at Sorbonne and the Royal School of Mines. He received his diploma as an assayer from the Royal Mint. In 1829, Clemson wrote a letter to Benjamin Silliman, M.D., about his research of iron ore. The date of his return to Philadelphia is unknown.\nIn 1843, Thomas purchased a 1,000-acre plot of land in the Edgefield district in South Carolina. Named \"Canebrake\" (for the vast dense and thick canes along the riverbank), the land had an estimated value of $24,000.\nDiplomat.\nWith knowledge of both French and German, Clemson served as U.S. Charg\u00e9 d'affaires to Belgium from October 4, 1844 until January 8, 1852. He received the position largely due to his father in-law John C. Calhoun, then Secretary of State under the Tyler Administration. President Tyler had given the task of filling the position to Calhoun, who quickly nominated his son in-law Clemson. Clemson was more than qualified to serve in this position for the government. From his time spent in Paris studying, he picked up on European culture and their way of living. In addition, the time there also gave him a feel for continental problems and thinking. With his extensive knowledge of not just Belgium's but the Europe's economics, politics, and social life, he was better able to connect the United States to Belgium and other European countries. The U.S. and Belgium signed a treaty during his time as charg\u00e9: the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, which removed trade and tariff restrictions between the two countries for 10 years, boosting commerce. Clemson was awarded the Order of Leopold by King Leopold I during his time as charg\u00e9.\nHis South Carolina plot was not profitable while Clemson was abroad in Belgium, but he used the time to further his studies in the field of agriculture. He translated from French the lengthy article \"Extraction of Sugar from the Beet,\" written by Louis Melsens, a professor at the Royal Veterinary School of Cureghem.\nAgricultural research.\nUpon his return from Belgium, Clemson chose to live in Maryland, not too far from Washington, D.C., for access to utilities and resources for his research, studies, and experiments. In 1853, he purchased a 100-acre plot in what is now Mount Rainier, Maryland, which he called \"The Home.\" His studies in agricultural chemistry led to findings that were published in \"The American Farmer\" and other scientific journals. He attended the meetings of the Maryland and the United States Agricultural Societies. Among other projects, he studied the cattle disease Texas Fever, demonstrating that cattle moving from the North to the South contracted the disease, whereas cattle going from the South to the North transmitted the disease. His findings and distinction as a scientist led to his invitation to speak at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington in 1858. Clemson was active in the field of agricultural research for many years to come, as more of his documents became published.\nFrom 1860 to 1861, Clemson served in the Buchanan administration as Superintendent of Agriculture.\nAmerican Civil War.\nAs the threat of civil war became a reality, Clemson resigned this post on March 4, 1861. He stood on the side of his adopted state. Following the firing on Fort Sumter on April 12, 1861, Clemson left Maryland for South Carolina. In Pendleton on November 2, 1861, Clemson spoke to the Farmers Society and publicly \"Urged the establishment of a department of agriculture in the government of the Confederate States which, in addition to fostering the general interest of agriculture, would also serve as a sort of university for the diffusion of scientific knowledge and the improvement of agriculture.\"\nFifty-four-year-old Clemson, enlisted in the Confederate States Army and was assigned to the Army of the Trans-Mississippi Department. Clemson worked in Arkansas and Texas developing nitrate mines for explosives. He was paroled on June 9, 1865, at Shreveport, Louisiana, after four years of service. His son, Captain John Calhoun Clemson, also enlisted in the Confederate States Army and spent two years in a Union prison camp on Johnson's Island, in Lake Erie, Ohio. He was a first lieutenant in the Confederate Army.\nMarriage and family.\nOn November 13, 1838, at the age of 31, Clemson married Anna Maria Calhoun, daughter of John C. Calhoun, the noted Senator from South Carolina and 7th Vice President of the United States and Floride Calhoun. After Calhoun's death, Floride Calhoun, Anna Calhoun Clemson, and two other Calhoun children inherited the Fort Hill plantation near Pendleton, South Carolina. It was sold for $49,000 (~$ in ) to Calhoun's oldest son, Andrew Pickens Calhoun, in 1854. After the war and upon Andrew's death in 1865, Floride Calhoun foreclosed on his heirs before her death in 1866. After lengthy legal procedures, Fort Hill was auctioned in 1872. The executor of her estate won the auction, which was divided among her surviving heirs. Her daughter, Anna Clemson, received the residence with about 814 acres (329.6 ha) and her great granddaughter, Floride Isabella Lee, received about 288 acres (116.6 ha). Thomas Green and Anna Clemson moved into Fort Hill in 1872. After Anna's death in 1875, Thomas Green Clemson inherited Fort Hill and lived there until his death. He died on April 6, 1888, and is buried in St. Paul's Episcopal churchyard in Pendleton, South Carolina.\nChildren.\nThomas Green Clemson and his wife Anna Calhoun Clemson had four children. Their first child, whose name is not known, died as an infant in 1839. In 1841, John Calhoun Clemson was born. Shortly after in 1842, Anna Clemson gave birth to her daughter Floride Elizabeth Clemson. At age 15, John was getting treatment for a spinal condition in Northampton, Massachusetts. Another child, Cornelia \"Nina\" Clemson, was born in October 1855; she died in 1858 of scarlet fever. On July 23, 1871, their daughter Floride died. Clemson's only son John died three weeks later, on August 10, 1871.\nFounding Clemson University.\nOutliving his wife and his children, Clemson drafted a final in the mid-1880s. The will called for the establishment of a land-grant institution called The Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina upon the property of the Fort Hill estate. He believed that education, especially scientific education, leads to economic prosperity. He wanted to start an agricultural college because he felt that government officials did not appreciate the importance of agricultural education.\nAlthough the college was de facto an all-white, all-male college when it opened, Clemson did not explicitly ban women or African-Americans from attending, unlike the founders of Vanderbilt, Tulane, Rice and other southern universities. However, Clemson's intent was no secret: he created the university because he believed South Carolina needed \"an institution that vandal hands could not pollute,\" that is, a university that did not allow both blacks and whites to attend.\nThe military college, founded in 1889, opened its doors in 1893 to 446 cadets. Clemson Agricultural College was renamed Clemson University in 1964. A statue of Thomas Green Clemson, as well as the Fort Hill house, are located on the campus. The town of Calhoun that bordered the campus was renamed Clemson in 1943."}
{"id": "731857", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731857", "title": "Ayudhya", "text": ""}
{"id": "731859", "revid": "20483999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731859", "title": "USS Curts", "text": "USS \"Curts\" (FFG-38) was the twenty-ninth ship of the of guided-missile frigates. She was named for Admiral Maurice Curts (1898\u20131976). \"Curts\" is the first ship of that name in the US Navy.\nOrdered from Todd Pacific Shipyards, Los Angeles Division, San Pedro, California on 27 April 1979 as part of the FY79 program, \"Curts\" was laid down on 1 July 1981, launched on 6 March 1982, and commissioned on 8 October 1983. She was decommissioned on 25 January 2013.\nService history.\n1980s.\n\"Curts\"s early years in commission were focused on anti-submarine warfare (ASW) operations and \"Curts\" was the first Pacific Fleet unit with the complete SQQ-89 ASW suite. The ship received the meritorious unit commendation for tactical proficiency in the tracking of Soviet submarines in 1987.\nIn 1988, \"Curts\" received the armed forces expeditionary medal for serving with the battle group during Operation Earnest Will in the north Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman. Additionally, \"Curts\" changed homeport to Yokosuka, Japan, becoming one of the first two guided-missile frigates to join the Forward Deployed Naval Force (FDNF). \"Curts\" was first to bring SH-60B LAMPS MK III helicopters to Naval Air Facility Atsugi.\nOperation Desert Storm.\nOn 24 January 1991, during Operation Desert Storm, the ship and her embarked navy and army helicopters captured an Iraqi garrison on Qaruh Island in the northern Persian Gulf, taking the island and custody of 51 Iraqi prisoners. \"Curts\" destroyed two mines, sank an Iraqi minelayer and provided support to combat helicopter operations during the battle of Bubiyan Island. The ship received the navy unit commendation for her exceptional operational performance.\n1990s.\nUpon return from combat operations in June 1991, the ship became an important part of Operation Fiery Vigil rescuing numerous refugees to safety when Mount Pinatubo erupted near Subic Bay, Republic of The Philippines.\nIn 1993, \"Curts\" was upgraded with the 4100-ton class modification, extending her stern another and enhancing her combat capabilities. [The information about extending her stern by 8 feet was probably sourced from the DANFS history, which is not always 100% accurate. \"Curts\" was built as a long-hull FFG-7, which were 8 feet longer than the short hull versions, so this is unlikely]. \"Curts\" joined the Battle Group in 1993 to participate with the Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force in joint anti-submarine warfare exercise MAREX. Later that year, the ship deployed to the Persian Gulf conducting 89 boardings of merchant vessels in the Red Sea as part of United Nations sanctions enforcement against Iraq. \"Curts\" material and operational readiness was rewarded with the battle efficiency award for 1994.\nIn 1994, \"Curts\" participated in the RIMPAC 94 exercise and sailed from its homeport in Yokosuka, Japan to Honolulu, Hawaii to participate with International Navies from around the Pacific, including Japan, Korea, Canada and more.\nIn 1995, \"Curts\" participated in major joint exercises with units of the U.S. Navy and Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF), and later with the navies of Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand for 1996 cooperation afloat for readiness and training (CARAT 96).\nIn 1997, after nine years of forward presence as part of the seventh fleet, \"Curts\" departed Yokosuka, Japan for a homeport change to San Diego, California and in October 1998 \"Curts\" joined the Naval Reserve Force (NRF).\nIn 1998, \"Curts\" deployed to the multi-lateral exercise Teamwork South, where she participated in exercises with navies from the United Kingdom, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Chile. Upon completion of Teamwork South, \"Curts\" steamed to Hawaii to participate in multi-lateral exercise RIMPAC 98. \"Curts\" made national headlines when a Salinas, Ecuador hotel security guard died from injuries he received during a scuffle with a LTJG (pilot) and Senior Chief Petty Officer assigned to helicopter squadron HSL-43 embarked on \"Curts\" for the deployment. Both men were removed from the ship and returned to the U.S. to face a court martial.\nIn 1999, \"Curts\" deployed to counter-narco-terrorism deployment under the direction of Joint Inter-agency Task Force East (now named Joint Interagency Task Force South). In addition to seizing approximately 5 metric tons of cocaine, \"Curts\" conducted rare bi-lateral counter-narcotics exercises with the Colombian Navy. After departing a short visit to Aruba \"Curts\" responded to a distress call from M/V \"Olga\", north of the Guajira Peninsula. \"Curts\" crew were awarded the Humanitarian Service Medal for joint rescue efforts that saved the lives of several \"Olga\" crew members. The half-way point of this deployment found \"Curts\" celebrating Halloween in Key West, Christmas in St. Thomas and New Years again in Key West, Florida. The timing of this deployment also caused \"Curts\" to be the last U.S. warship to transit the Panama Canal under U.S. control in 1999 (ex- was towed through just before \"Curts\" transit) and the first to transit it under Panamanian control in 2000.\n2000s.\nDuring CARAT cruises in 2001 and 2003, \"Curts\" conducted multilateral exercises with the navies of Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, and the Philippines to continue promoting international training and cooperation.\nIn 2004 \"Curts\" again deployed to southern command on a six-month counter-narcotics deployment with Coast Guard Law Enforcement Detachment (LEDET) 105 and received national notoriety for the largest maritime seizure of cocaine (12 tons) in history. The ship received the U.S. Coast Guard Meritorious Unit Commendation for her outstanding performance during deployment.\n\"Curts\" deployed again in 2006 to counter-narco-terrorism deployment. Although less successful than the 2004 deployment, \"Curts\" interdicted three cocaine shipments, totalling in excess of 10 metric tons of cocaine and apprehension and transport of over 50 smugglers.\nOn 16 February 2007, \"Curts\" was awarded the 2006 Battle \"E\" award.\nIn 2007 \"Curts\" was transferred from Commander Destroyer Squadron One to Commander Destroyer Squadron Nine and incorporated into Carrier Strike Group Nine. In March USS \"Abraham Lincoln\" Strike Group (CSG-9) departed for deployment to the 5th Fleet area of operations (Persian Gulf). This marked \"Curts\" first Strike Group deployment since transfer to the U.S. Naval Reserve. \"Curts\" primarily performed a Critical Infrastructure Protection role by acting as Scene of Action Commander for Oil Platform protection efforts at the Khawar al Amaya and al Basrah oil terminals in the northern Persian Gulf. \"Curts\" also conducted bi-lateral exercises with the Malaysian and Pakistani navies during her transit to the Gulf.\n\"Curts\" was commanded by Yvette M. Davids from April 2007 to November 2008, making Davids the first Hispanic American woman to command a navy ship.\n\"Curts\" was decommissioned on 25 January 2013, and was transferred to the inactive reserves on 27 February.\nIn December 2012 during the 112th Session of Congress, a transfer-by-grant was proposed. The recipient would be The Navy of Mexico, who may receive \"Curts\", along with . Both vessels were not transferred. The act of approving the transfer of vessels by the United States does not guarantee that the vessels will actually be transferred. As of September 2016, both ships were in reserve at Pearl Harbor and slated to be disposed of as targets.\nOn 19 September 2020, \"Curts\" was sunk during a sinking exercise (SINKEX) in the Pacific Ocean. The SINKEX was part of Exercise Valiant Shield 2020. She was targeted with live ordnance including air-launched ordnance from fixed and rotary wing of Carrier Air Wing Five, embarked aboard the aircraft carrier , RGM-84 \"Harpoon\" missiles from the cruisers and , a subsurface launched missile from the submarine , as well as various supporting U.S. Navy and United States Air Force aircraft.\nReferences.\nText of the Naval Vessels Transfer Act of 2012"}
{"id": "731860", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731860", "title": "Ayuthia (city)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731861", "revid": "31737083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731861", "title": "Cheyne\u2013Stokes respiration", "text": "Cheyne\u2013Stokes respiration is an abnormal pattern of breathing characterized by progressively deeper, and sometimes faster, breathing followed by a gradual decrease that results in a temporary stop in breathing called an apnea. The pattern repeats, with each cycle usually taking 30 seconds to 2 minutes. It is an oscillation of ventilation between apnea and hyperpnea with a crescendo-diminuendo pattern, and is associated with changing serum partial pressures of oxygen and carbon dioxide.\nCheyne\u2013Stokes respiration and periodic breathing are the two regions on a spectrum of severity of oscillatory tidal volume. The distinction lies in what is observed at the trough of ventilation: Cheyne\u2013Stokes respiration involves apnea (since apnea is a prominent feature in their original description) while periodic breathing involves hypopnea (abnormally small but not absent breaths).\nThese phenomena can occur during wakefulness or during sleep, where they are called the central sleep apnea syndrome (CSAS).\nIt may be caused by damage to respiratory centers, or by physiological abnormalities in congestive heart failure. It is also seen in newborns with immature respiratory systems, in visitors new to high altitudes, and in severely ill patients approaching end-of-life.\nPathophysiology.\nCauses may include heart failure, kidney failure, narcotic poisoning, intracranial pressure, and hypoperfusion of the brain (particularly of the respiratory center). The pathophysiology of Cheyne\u2013Stokes breathing can be summarized as apnea leading to increased CO2 which causes excessive compensatory hyperventilation, in turn causing decreased CO2 which causes apnea, restarting the cycle.\nIn heart failure, the mechanism of the oscillation is unstable feedback in the respiratory control system. In normal respiratory control, negative feedback allows a steady level of alveolar gas concentrations to be maintained, and therefore stable tissue levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide (CO2). At the steady state, the rate of production of CO2 equals the net rate at which it is exhaled from the body, which (assuming no CO2 in the ambient air) is the product of the alveolar ventilation and the end-tidal CO2 concentration. Because of this interrelationship, the set of possible steady states forms a hyperbola:\nIn the figure below, this relationship is the curve falling from the top left to the bottom right. Only positions along this curve permit the body's CO2 production to be exactly compensated for by exhalation of CO2. Meanwhile, there is another curve, shown in the figure for simplicity as a straight line from bottom left to top right, which is the body's ventilatory response to different levels of CO2. Where the curves cross is the potential steady state (S).\nThrough respiratory control reflexes, any small transient fall in ventilation (A) leads to a corresponding small rise (A') in alveolar CO2 concentration which is sensed by the respiratory control system so that there is a subsequent small compensatory rise in ventilation (B) above its steady state level (S) that helps restore CO2 back to its steady state value. In general, transient or persistent disturbances in ventilation, CO2 or oxygen levels can be counteracted by the respiratory control system in this way.\nHowever, in some pathological states, the feedback is more powerful than is necessary to simply return the system towards its steady state. Instead, ventilation overshoots and can generate an opposite disturbance to the original disturbance. If this secondary disturbance is larger than the original, the next response will be even larger, and so on, until very large oscillations have developed, as shown in the figure below.\nThe cycle of enlargement of disturbances reaches a limit when successive disturbances are no longer larger, which occurs when physiological responses no longer increase linearly in relation to the size of the stimulus. The most obvious example of this is when ventilation falls to zero: it cannot be any lower. Thus Cheyne\u2013Stokes respiration can be maintained over periods of many minutes or hours with a repetitive pattern of apneas and hyperpneas.\nThe end of the linear decrease in ventilation in response to falls in CO2 is not, however, at apnea. It occurs when ventilation is so small that air being breathed in never reaches the alveolar space, because the inspired tidal volume is no larger than the volume of the large airways such as the trachea. Consequently, at the nadir of periodic breathing, ventilation of the alveolar space may be effectively zero; the easily observable counterpart of this is failure at that time point of the end-tidal gas concentrations to resemble realistic alveolar concentrations.\nMany potential contributory factors have been identified by clinical observation, but unfortunately they are all interlinked and co-vary extensively. Widely accepted risk factors are hyperventilation, prolonged circulation time, and reduced blood gas buffering capacity.\nThey are physiologically interlinked in that (for any given patient) circulation time decreases as cardiac output increases. Likewise, for any given total body CO2 production rate, alveolar ventilation is inversely proportional to end-tidal CO2 concentration (since their mutual product must equal total body CO2 production rate). Chemoreflex sensitivity is closely linked to the position of the steady state, because if chemoreflex sensitivity increases (other things being equal) the steady-state ventilation will rise and the steady-state CO2 will fall. Because ventilation and CO2 are easy to observe, and because they are commonly measured clinical variables which do not require any particular experiment to be conducted in order to observe them, abnormalities in these variables are more likely to be reported in the literature. However, other variables, such as chemoreflex sensitivity can only be measured by specific experiment, and therefore abnormalities in them will not be found in routine clinical data. When measured in patients with Cheyne\u2013Stokes respiration, hypercapnic ventilatory responsiveness may be elevated by 100% or more. When not measured, its consequences\u2014such as a low mean PaCO2 and elevated mean ventilation\u2014may sometimes appear to be the most prominent feature.\nAssociated conditions.\nThis abnormal pattern of breathing, in which breathing is absent for a period and then rapid for a period, can be seen in patients with heart failure, strokes, hyponatremia, traumatic brain injuries, and brain tumors. In some instances, it can occur in otherwise healthy people during sleep at high altitudes. It can occur in all forms of toxic metabolic encephalopathy. It is a symptom of carbon monoxide poisoning, along with syncope or coma. This type of respiration is different from respiratory depression, often seen after morphine administration.\nCheyne-Stokes is one of several abnormal breathing patterns potentially seen in Joubert syndrome and related disorders.\nHospices sometimes document the presence of Cheyne\u2013Stokes breathing as a patient nears death, and report that patients able to speak after such episodes do not report any distress associated with the breathing, although it is sometimes disturbing to the family.\nRelated patterns.\nCheyne\u2013Stokes respirations are not the same as Biot's respirations (\"cluster breathing\"), in which groups of breaths tend to be similar in size.\nThey differ from Kussmaul respirations in that the Kussmaul pattern is one of consistent very deep breathing at a normal or increased rate.\nHistory.\nThe condition was named after John Cheyne and William Stokes, the physicians who first described it in the 19th century.\nThe term became widely known and used in the Soviet Union after the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953, because the Soviet press announced that the ailing Stalin had Cheyne\u2013Stokes respiration."}
{"id": "731862", "revid": "275971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731862", "title": "Mendez v. Westminister School District", "text": ""}
{"id": "731863", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731863", "title": "Ayudhia (city)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731865", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731865", "title": "Ayuthia province", "text": ""}
{"id": "731866", "revid": "28481209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731866", "title": "Chilaiditi syndrome", "text": "Chilaiditi syndrome is a rare condition when pain occurs due to transposition of a loop of large intestine (usually transverse colon) in between the diaphragm and the liver, visible on plain abdominal X-ray or chest X-ray.\nNormally this causes no symptoms, and this is called Chilaiditi's sign. The sign can be permanently present, or sporadically. This anatomical variant is sometimes mistaken for the more serious condition of having air under the diaphragm (pneumoperitoneum) which is usually an indication of bowel perforation, possibly leading to surgical interventions.\nChilaiditi syndrome refers only to complications in the presence of Chilaiditi's sign. These include abdominal pain, torsion of the bowel (transverse colon volvulus) or shortness of breath.\nCauses.\nThe exact cause is not always known, but it may occur in patients with a long and mobile colon (dolichocolon), chronic lung disease such as emphysema, or liver problems such as cirrhosis and ascites. Chilaiditi's sign is generally not associated with symptoms, and is most commonly an incidental finding in normal individuals.\nAbsence or laxity of the ligament suspending the transverse colon or of the falciform ligament are also thought to contribute to the condition. It can also be associated with relative atrophy of the medial segment of the left lobe of the liver. In this case, the gallbladder position is often anomalous as well \u2013 it is often located anterior to the liver, rather than posterior.\nEpidemiology.\nThe occurrence (incidence) on abdominal or chest X-rays is around 0.1% but it can be up to 1% in series of older adults. It has also been reported in children.\nHistory.\nChilaiditi's sign is named after the Greek radiologist Dim\u00edtrios Chilaiditi, born in 1883, who first described it when he was working in Vienna in 1910.\nSynonyms.\nSynonyms include interpositio hepatodiaphragmatica, subphrenic displacement of the colon, subphrenic interposition syndrome and pseudopneumoperitoneum."}
{"id": "731867", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731867", "title": "Ayudhya province", "text": ""}
{"id": "731868", "revid": "4626582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731868", "title": "National Lampoon's Last Resort", "text": "National Lampoon's Last Resort (also known as Last Resort or National Lampoon's Scuba School) is a 1994 direct-to-video comedy film directed by Rafal Zielinski. The film stars Corey Feldman and Corey Haim as Sam and Dave, two friends who are visiting a Caribbean island resort.\nPlot.\nSam and Dave, after being fired from a fast food outlet and getting evicted, are magically transported to Sam's uncle's island. Sam and Dave are asked to help save the island. The band Dread Zeppelin perform the film's theme song as credits roll at the end.\nProduction.\nFilmed in the Cayman Islands and La Habra Heights, California, United States\nReception.\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" said, \"the latest movie offering bearing the Lampoon name, the too-aptly titled \"National Lampoon\u2019s Last Resort\", hits bottom in a way the magazine\u2019s founders surely never contemplated: Not only is this mutation mind-bogglingly inept and bland, it\u2019s also inexcusably unfunny."}
{"id": "731870", "revid": "11292982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731870", "title": "Ayudhya (city)", "text": ""}
{"id": "731871", "revid": "10784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731871", "title": "Ayuthia kingdom", "text": ""}
{"id": "731872", "revid": "513387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731872", "title": "Sound Designer", "text": ""}
{"id": "731876", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731876", "title": "Levinthal's Paradox", "text": ""}
{"id": "731878", "revid": "1215485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731878", "title": "Sound designer", "text": ""}
{"id": "731879", "revid": "22604547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731879", "title": "List of eponymous medical signs", "text": "Eponymous medical signs are those that are named after a person or persons, usually the physicians who first described them, but occasionally a famous patient. This list includes other eponymous entities of diagnostic significance, such as tests and reflexes.\nNumerous additional signs can be found for Graves disease under Graves' ophthalmopathy."}
{"id": "731880", "revid": "29539620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731880", "title": "Memorial Stadium (Clemson)", "text": "Frank Howard Field at Memorial Stadium, known as \"Death Valley\", is an outdoor stadium on the campus of Clemson University near Clemson, South Carolina. It is home to the Clemson Tigers football team of the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC).\nBuilt between 1941\u20131942, the stadium was originally named Memorial Stadium in memory of \"all Clemson men who have made the supreme sacrifice for their country.\" In 1974, when legendary, long-time head coach and athletic director Frank Howard retired from the university, it was announced that the playing surface would be named in his honor.\nThe stadium has seen expansions throughout the years with the most recent being the WestZone with Phase 1 construction beginning in 2004 and completing in 2015 with the addition of the Oculus, the final piece of Phase 3. Phase 1 of the EastZone project began in 2020.\nPrior to the completion of Bank of America Stadium, in Charlotte, Memorial Stadium served as the home venue for the National Football League (NFL)'s Carolina Panthers during the team's inaugural 1995 season.\nCurrently, the stadium is the largest in the ACC.\nHistory.\nConstruction.\nThe stadium was constructed against the wishes of outgoing Clemson head coach Jess Neely. Just before leaving for Rice University after the 1939 season, he told his line coach and successor, Frank Howard, \"Don't ever let them talk you into building a big stadium. Put about 10,000 seats behind the YMCA. That's all you'll ever need.\" Despite this, Clemson officials decided it was time to build a stadium to replace old Riggs Field. They chose to build in the valley in the western part of campus. On April 3, 1941, the South Carolina General Assembly ratified an act authorizing a $150,000 bond issue for the new stadium, and the bill went to Governor Burnet R. Maybank for signature. The original 20,500-seat stadium\u2014the lower half of the current facility's south grandstand\u2014was constructed for $125,000 or $6.25 a seat. The stadium was designed by Carl Lee of Charlotte, North Carolina (Clemson '08) and Professor H. E. Glenn of the engineering faculty. On September 19, 1942, Memorial Stadium was opened with a 32\u201313 victory over Presbyterian College. Much of the early construction of the stadium was done by scholarship athletes. In fact, the first staking out of the stadium was done by A. N. Cameron and Hugh Webb, two members of the football team.\nIn 1958, 18,000 sideline seats were added and in 1960, 5,658 west end zone seats were added in response to increasing attendance. The original cedar wood seating was replaced in 1972 by aluminum seats. As attendance continued to skyrocket, the sideline seats were double-decked. The south upper deck (Top Deck South) was added in 1978 and the north upper deck (Top Deck North) in 1983. This put the total capacity over 80,000, which made it one of the largest on-campus stadiums in the United States. The most recent expansion started in 2004 and continued through 2009. The first phase of the \"WestZone\" project closed in the west end zone of Death Valley, added new luxury box and club seating, and completely renovated the locker rooms. The second phase, which was completed prior to the 2009 football season, brought all football offices and team meeting rooms to the WestZone from the McFadden Building and also added dedicated football training and strength conditioning facilities. The stadium's maximum capacity is 81,500, but it can accommodate crowds of over 86,000 with standing room. The largest crowd in school history was in 1999, when 86,092 watched the Tigers lose to Florida State.\nOn January 14, 2011, Clemson announced a new $50 million athletic building plan. Facility improvements for football will include building an indoor practice facility and finishing the WestZone project. The indoor practice facility, which will be located where the current practice fields are, will feature a regulation-size artificial turf football field, a coach's tower and video platforms. The building will have large garage-style doors, which can be raised to create an open-air space. The estimated cost of the project is $10 million. \u201cThe indoor practice facility will be a highly significant addition for Clemson, not only for football but also for other sports to use,\u201d Phillips said. The $15.3 million WestZone project will feature the oculus, which is the main entrance to the WestZone, a four-level museum and an expansion of the northwest concourse. Construction on the northwest concourse expansion started in April and was completed by the start of the 2011 season.\nScroll of Honor.\nA memorial to the 498 Clemson service personnel killed while on military duty was dedicated by The Clemson Corps (ClemsonCorps.com) outside Gate 1 on April 22, 2010. A flypast of two T-34B Mentors concluded the ceremonies.\nDeath Valley.\nThe nickname \"Death Valley\" for Memorial Stadium, derives both from Death Valley National Park in California as well as the location of the Clemson University cemetery on a hill that once overlooked the field\u2014before the upper decks were constructed.\nThe late Lonnie McMillian, former football coach at Presbyterian College told sports writers in 1948 that he had \"to take his team up to Clemson and play in Death Valley\" where they rarely scored or gained a victory.\nClemson Head Coach Frank Howard began using the nickname \"Death Valley\" for the stadium in the 1950s. \nDeath Valley facts.\nMemorial Stadium hosted The Rolling Stones with Living Colour in 1989 for the Steel Wheels/Urban Jungle Tour. It hosted Pink Floyd in 1994 for The Division Bell Tour. It hosted Elton John with Billy Joel in 1995 for Face to Face 1995 tour, and The Eagles in 1996. In 1997, it hosted U2 with Rage Against the Machine for the PopMart Tour.\nNotable games.\nClemson Top Single Game\nAttendance Figures\nTraditions.\nHoward's Rock.\nIn the early 1960s, the rock was given to then head coach Frank Howard by a friend, Samuel Columbus Jones (Clemson Class of 1919). It was presented to Howard by Jones, saying \"Here's a rock from Death Valley, California, to Death Valley, South Carolina.\" Howard didn't think anything else about the rock and it was used as a door stop in his office for several years. In September 1966, while cleaning out his office, Howard noticed the rock and told IPTAY executive director Gene Willimon, \"Take this rock and throw it over the fence or out in the ditch...do something with it, but get it out of my office.\" Willimon had the rock placed on a pedestal at the top of the east end zone hill that the team ran down to enter the field for games. On September 24, 1966, the first time Clemson players ran by the rock, they beat conference rival Virginia, 40\u201335. Howard, seizing on the motivational potential of \"The Rock\", told his players, \"Give me 110% or keep your filthy hands off of my rock.\" The team started rubbing the Rock for the first game of 1967, in which they beat ACC foe Wake Forest, 23\u20136.\nIt is now a tradition for the Clemson Ranger Club to \"protect\" the Rock during the 24 hours preceding the Clemson-South Carolina game, when held in Death Valley. ROTC cadets keep a steady drum cadence around the Rock prior to the game, which can be heard across the campus. Part of the tradition began after unknown parties vandalized the Rock prior to the 1992 South Carolina-Clemson game.\nIn 2013, the rock was vandalized and re-installed under a protective case.\nRunning Down the Hill.\nProbably the most highly publicized tradition of Clemson football is its dramatic entrance scene. The tradition of Running Down the Hill started when the football locker rooms were located in Fike Field House (located up the hill northeast of the stadium). Clemson players would run down the hill all the way from Fike into the stadium to intimidate opposing teams.\nToday, after exiting the stadium on the west side, the players load into buses, escorted by police officers. They make their way around the stadium to the east side where The Hill is located. This scene has been shown on the JumboTron ever since it was installed in the stadium. When the buses arrive at the east side, the players get out and gather at the top of the hill and stand around Howard's Rock. Once most of the players are out of the buses and ready to go, a cannon sounds, the band launches into Tiger Rag, and the players run down the hill. In 1985, Brent Musburger referred to it as \"the most exciting 25 seconds in college football.\"\nAfter the end of the 2018 season the Tigers had made the run down the hill 402 times."}
{"id": "731881", "revid": "14893258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731881", "title": "Cheyne\u2013Stokes breathing", "text": ""}
{"id": "731883", "revid": "208500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731883", "title": "Roentgen", "text": "R\u00f6ntgen or Roentgen may refer to:"}
{"id": "731884", "revid": "52064676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731884", "title": "Electromagnetic four-potential", "text": "An electromagnetic four-potential is a relativistic vector function from which the electromagnetic field can be derived. It combines both an electric scalar potential and a magnetic vector potential into a single four-vector.\nAs measured in a given frame of reference, and for a given gauge, the first component of the electromagnetic four-potential is conventionally taken to be the electric scalar potential, and the other three components make up the magnetic vector potential. While both the scalar and vector potential depend upon the frame, the electromagnetic four-potential is Lorentz covariant.\nLike other potentials, many different electromagnetic four-potentials correspond to the same electromagnetic field, depending upon the choice of gauge.\nThis article uses tensor index notation and the Minkowski metric sign convention . See also covariance and contravariance of vectors and raising and lowering indices for more details on notation. Formulae are given in SI units and Gaussian-cgs units.\nDefinition.\nThe contravariant electromagnetic four-potential can be defined as:\nin which \"\u03d5\" is the electric potential, and A is the magnetic potential (a vector potential). The unit of \"A\u03b1\" is V\u00b7s\u00b7m\u22121 in SI, and Mx\u00b7cm\u22121 in Gaussian-CGS.\nThe electric and magnetic fields associated with these four-potentials are:\nIn special relativity, the electric and magnetic fields transform under Lorentz transformations. This can be written in the form of a rank two tensor \u2013 the electromagnetic tensor. The 16 contravariant components of the electromagnetic tensor, using Minkowski metric convention , are written in terms of the electromagnetic four-potential and the four-gradient as:\nIf the said signature is instead then:\nThis essentially defines the four-potential in terms of physically observable quantities, as well as reducing to the above definition.\nIn the Lorenz gauge.\nOften, the Lorenz gauge condition formula_3 in an inertial frame of reference is employed to simplify Maxwell's equations as:\nwhere \"J\u03b1\" are the components of the four-current, and\nis the d'Alembertian operator. In terms of the scalar and vector potentials, this last equation becomes:\nFor a given charge and current distribution, and , the solutions to these equations in SI units are:\nwhere \nis the retarded time. This is sometimes also expressed with \nwhere the square brackets are meant to indicate that the time should be evaluated at the retarded time. Of course, since the above equations are simply the solution to an inhomogeneous differential equation, any solution to the homogeneous equation can be added to these to satisfy the boundary conditions. These homogeneous solutions in general represent waves propagating from sources outside the boundary.\nWhen the integrals above are evaluated for typical cases, e.g. of an oscillating current (or charge), they are found to give both a magnetic field component varying according to \"r\" (the induction field) and a component decreasing as \"r\" (the radiation field).\nGauge freedom.\nWhen flattened to a one-form (in tensor notation, formula_8), the four-potential formula_9 (normally written as a vector or, formula_10 in tensor notation) can be decomposed via the Hodge decomposition theorem as the sum of an exact, a coexact, and a harmonic form,\nThere is gauge freedom in in that of the three forms in this decomposition, only the coexact form has any effect on the electromagnetic tensor\nExact forms are closed, as are harmonic forms over an appropriate domain, so formula_13 and formula_14, always. So regardless of what formula_15 and formula_16 are, we are left with simply\nIn infinite flat Minkowski space, every closed form is exact. Therefore the formula_16 term vanishes. Every gauge transform of formula_9 can thus be written as"}
{"id": "731885", "revid": "1233313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731885", "title": "List of districts of Taipei by area", "text": ""}
{"id": "731887", "revid": "1307681558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731887", "title": "Frank Howard (American football)", "text": "Frank J. Howard (March 25, 1909 \u2013 January 26, 1996) was an American college football player and coach. He played college football for Alabama. After a career-ending injury, Howard joined the staff at Clemson College and became head coach in 1940. Howard coached the Clemson Tigers for 30 years, amassing the 15th most wins of any college football coach. He led Clemson to ten bowl games, an undefeated season in 1948, and several top-20 rankings during his tenure as head coach. During his stay at Clemson, Howard also oversaw the athletic department, ticket sales, and was an assistant coach for the baseball team. He was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame, the South Carolina Sports Hall of Fame, the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and the Clemson Ring of Honor. The playing surface at Clemson's Memorial Stadium is named after him.\nCoaching career.\nIn 1963, after Maryland announced that African-American wide receiver Daryyl Hill was to play, Clemson threatened to leave the conference. Howard vowed that his team would not allow any black to play in their stadium, although Hill did end up playing in the scheduled game.\nIn the early 1960s,however, Howard allegedly showed compassion to the local community including those at segregated African-American school that he could not recruit. One of the football players was future Michigan State University All American and All Pro George Webster. As a junior at Westside High in Anderson, S.C. Webster suffered a knee injury. The injury could have spelled the end of his career, but then-Clemson coach Frank Howard helped Webster. Michigan State teammate Jim Summers of Orangeburg, S.C., tells the story.\n\u201cFrank Howard made sure that operation at Clemson University\u2019s medical facility,\u201d Summers said. \u201cGeorge was probably the first black person to spend any sustained time on that campus. If it wasn\u2019t for segregation, George probably would have gone to Clemson, Frank treated him so well.\u201d George Webster was drafted 3rd in the 1967 NFL draft after winning two national championships."}
{"id": "731890", "revid": "9784415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731890", "title": "Rene Fonck", "text": ""}
{"id": "731892", "revid": "8066546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731892", "title": "County of Dufferin, Ontario", "text": ""}
{"id": "731893", "revid": "50001244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731893", "title": "Grey", "text": "Grey or gray is an intermediate color between black and white. It is a neutral or achromatic color, meaning that it has no chroma. It is the color of a cloud-covered sky, of ash, and of lead.\nThe first recorded use of \"grey\" as a color name in the English language was in 700\u00a0CE. \"Grey\" is the dominant spelling in European and Commonwealth English, while \"gray\" is more common in American English; however, both spellings are valid in both varieties of English.\nIn Europe and North America, surveys show that grey is the color most commonly associated with neutrality, conformity, boredom, uncertainty, old age, indifference, and humility. Only one percent of respondents chose it as their favorite color.\nEtymology.\n\"Grey\" comes from the Middle English or , from the Old English , and is related to the Dutch and German . There are certain cognates outside Germanic languages; terms such as Spanish , Italian and Medieval Latin \"griseus\" are considered Germanic loanwords. The first recorded use of \"grey\" as a color name in the English language was in 700 CE.\nThe distinction between \"grey\" and \"gray\" spellings in usual Commonwealth and American English respectively developed the 20th century.\nIn history and art.\nAntiquity through the Middle Ages.\nIn antiquity and the Middle Ages, grey was the color of undyed wool, and thus was the color most commonly worn by peasants and the poor. It was also the color worn by Cistercian monks and friars of the Franciscan and Capuchin orders as a symbol of their vows of humility and poverty. Franciscan friars in England and Scotland were commonly known as the grey friars, and that name is now attached to many places in Great Britain.\nRenaissance and the Baroque.\nDuring the Renaissance and the Baroque, grey began to play an important role in fashion and art. Black became the most popular color of the nobility, particularly in Italy, France, and Spain, and grey and white were harmonious with it.\nGrey was also frequently used for the drawing of oil paintings, a technique called \"grisaille\". The painting would first be composed in grey and white, and then the colors, made with thin transparent glazes, would be added on top. The grisaille beneath would provide the shading, visible through the layers of color. Sometimes, the grisaille was simply left uncovered, giving the appearance of carved stone.\nGrey was a particularly good background color for gold and for skin tones. It became the most common background for the portraits of Rembrandt van Rijn and for many of the paintings of El Greco, who used it to highlight the faces and costumes of the central figures. The palette of Rembrandt was composed almost entirely of somber colors. He composed his warm greys out of black pigments made from charcoal or burnt animal bones, mixed with lead white or a white made of lime, which he warmed with a little red lake color from cochineal or madder. In one painting, the portrait of Margaretha de Geer (1661), one part of a grey wall in the background is painted with a layer of dark brown over a layer of orange, red, and yellow earths, mixed with ivory black and some lead white. Over this he put an additional layer of glaze made of mixture of blue smalt, red ochre, and yellow lake. Using these ingredients and many others, he made greys which had, according to art historian Philip Ball, \"an incredible subtlety of pigmentation\". The warm, dark and rich greys and browns served to emphasize the golden light on the faces in the paintings.\nEighteenth and nineteenth centuries.\nGrey became a highly fashionable color in the 18th century, both for women's dresses and for men's waistcoats and coats. It looked particularly luminous coloring the silk and satin fabrics worn by the nobility and wealthy.\nWomen's fashion in the 19th century was dominated by Paris, while men's fashion was set by London. The grey business suit appeared in the mid-19th century in London; light grey in summer, dark grey in winter; replacing the more colorful palette of men's clothing early in the century.\nThe clothing of women working in the factories and workshops of Paris in the 19th century was usually grey. This gave them the name of \"grisettes\". \"\"Gris\" or grey also meant drunk, and the name \"grisette\"\" was also given to the lower class of Parisian prostitutes.\nGrey also became a common color for military uniforms; in an age of rifles with longer range, soldiers in grey were less visible as targets than those in blue or red. Grey was the color of the uniforms of the Confederate Army during the American Civil War, and of the Prussian Army for active service wear from 1910 onwards.\nSeveral artists of the mid-19th century used tones of grey to create memorable paintings; Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot used tones of green-grey and blue grey to give harmony to his landscapes, and James McNeill Whistler created a special grey for the background of the portrait of his mother, and for his own self-portrait.\nWhistler's arrangement of tones of grey had an effect on the world of music, on the French composer Claude Debussy. In 1894, Debussy wrote to violinist Eug\u00e8ne Ysa\u00ffe describing his \"Nocturnes\" as \"an experiment in the combinations that can be obtained from one colour \u2013 what a study in grey would be in painting\".\nTwentieth and twenty-first centuries.\nIn the late 1930s, grey became a symbol of industrialization and war. It was the dominant color of Pablo Picasso's celebrated painting about the horrors of the Spanish Civil War, \"Guernica\".\nAfter the war, the grey business suit became a metaphor for uniformity of thought, popularized in such books as \"The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit\" (1955), which became a successful film in 1956.\nIn the sciences, nature, and technology.\nStorm clouds.\nThe whiteness or darkness of clouds is a function of their depth. Small, fluffy white clouds in summer look white because the sunlight is being scattered by the tiny water droplets they contain, and that white light comes to the viewer's eye. However, as clouds become larger and thicker, the white light cannot penetrate through the cloud, and is reflected off the top. Clouds look darkest grey during thunderstorms, when they can be as much as 20,000 to 30,000 feet high.\nStratiform clouds are a layer of clouds that covers the entire sky, and which have a depth of between a few hundred to a few thousand feet thick. The thicker the clouds, the darker they appear from below, because little of the sunlight is able to pass through. From above, in an airplane, the same clouds look perfectly white, but from the ground the sky looks gloomy and grey.\nThe greying of hair.\nThe color of a person's hair is created by the pigment melanin, found in the core of each hair. Melanin is also responsible for the color of the skin and of the eyes. There are only two types of pigment: dark (eumelanin) or light (phaeomelanin). Combined in various combinations, these pigments create all natural hair colors.\nMelanin itself is the product of a specialized cell, the melanocyte, which is found in each hair follicle, from which the hair grows. As hair grows, the melanocyte injects melanin into the hair cells, which contain the protein keratin and which makes up our hair, skin, and nails. As long as the melanocytes continue injecting melanin into the hair cells, the hair retains its original color. At a certain age, however, which varies from person to person, the amount of melanin injected is reduced and eventually stops. The hair, without pigment, turns grey and eventually white. The reason for this decline of production of melanocytes is uncertain. In the February 2005 issue of \"Science\", a team of Harvard scientists suggested that the cause was the failure of the melanocyte stem cells to maintain the production of the essential pigments, due to age or genetic factors, after a certain period of time. For some people, the breakdown comes in their twenties; for others, many years later. According to the site of the magazine \"Scientific American\", \"Generally speaking, among Caucasians 50 percent are 50 percent grey by age 50.\" Adult male gorillas also develop silver hair, but only on their backs \u2013 see Physical characteristics of gorillas.\nOptics.\nOver the centuries, artists have traditionally created grey by mixing black and white in various proportions. They added a little red to make a warmer grey, or a little blue for a cooler grey. Artists could also make a grey by mixing two complementary colors, such as orange and azure.\nToday the grey on televisions, computer displays, and telephones is usually created using the RGB color model. Red, green, and blue light combined at full intensity on the black screen makes white; by lowering the intensity, it is possible to create all the different shades of grey.\nIn printing, grey is usually obtained with the CMYK color model. By using black ink at a lower density than the one needed to print black, all the shades of grey can be created. Grey can also be formed by mixing cyan, magenta, and yellow in a specific proportion, each at a low or moderate density. Usually, both methods are combined.\nMost greys have a cool or a warm cast to them, as the human eye can detect even a minute amount of color saturation. Adding a small amount of yellow, orange, or red will create a \"warm grey\". Adding a small amount of green, cyan, blue, or violet will form a \"cool grey\". When no color is added, the color is \"neutral grey\", \"achromatic grey\", or simply \"grey\". Images consisting wholly of black, white and greys are called monochrome, black-and-white, or greyscale.\nWeb colors.\nThere are several tones of grey available for use with HTML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) as named colors, while 254 true greys are available by specification of a hex triplet for the RGB value. All are spelled \"gray\", using the spelling \"grey\" can cause errors. This spelling was inherited from the X11 color list. Internet Explorer's Trident browser engine does not recognize \"grey\" and renders it green. Another anomaly is that \"gray\" is in fact much darker than the X11 color marked \"darkgray\"; this is because of a conflict with the original HTML grey and the X11 grey, which is closer to HTML's \"silver\". The three \"slategray\" colors are not themselves on the greyscale, but are slightly saturated toward cyan (green + blue). Since there are an even (256, including black and white) number of unsaturated tones of grey, there are two grey tones straddling the midpoint in the 8-bit greyscale. The color name \"gray\" has been assigned the lighter of the two shades (128, also known as #808080), due to rounding up.\nPigments.\nUntil the 19th century, artists traditionally created grey by simply combining black and white. Rembrandt Van Rijn, for instance, usually used lead white and either carbon black or ivory black, along with touches of either blues or reds to cool or warm the grey.\nIn the early 19th century, a new grey, Payne's grey, appeared on the market. Payne's grey is a dark blue-grey, a mixture of ultramarine and black or of ultramarine and sienna. It is named after William Payne, a British artist who painted watercolors in the late 18th century. The first recorded use of \"Payne's grey\" as a color name in English was in 1835.\nAnimal color.\nGrey is a very common color for animals, birds, and fish, ranging in size from whales to mice. It provides a natural camouflage and allows them to blend with their surroundings.\nGrey matter of the brain.\nThe substance that composes the brain is sometimes referred to as grey matter, or \"the little grey cells\", so the color grey is associated with things intellectual. However, the living human brain is actually pink in color; it only turns grey when dead.\nNanotechnology and grey goo.\nGrey goo is a hypothetical end-of-the-world scenario, also known as ecophagy: out-of-control self-replicating nanobots consume all living matter on Earth while building more of themselves.\nGrey noise.\nIn sound engineering, grey noise is random noise subjected to an equal-loudness contour, such as an inverted A-weighting curve, over a given range of frequencies, giving the listener the perception that it is equally loud at all frequencies.\nIn culture.\nReligion.\nIn the Christian religion, grey is the color of ashes, and so a biblical symbol of mourning and repentance, described as sackcloth and ashes. It can be used during Lent or on special days of fasting and prayer. As the color of humility and modesty, grey is worn by friars of the Order of Friars Minor Capuchin and Franciscan order as well as monks of the Cistercian order. Grey cassocks are worn by clergy of the Brazilian Catholic Apostolic Church.\nBuddhist monks and priests in Japan and Korea will often wear a sleeved grey, brown, or black outer robe.\nTaoist priests in China also often wear grey.\nPolitics.\nGrey is rarely used as a color by political parties, largely because of its common association with conformity, boredom and indecision. An example of a political party using grey as a color are the German Grey Panthers.\nThe term \"grey power\" or \"the grey vote\" is sometimes used to describe the influence of older voters as a voting bloc. In the United States, older people are more likely to vote, and usually vote to protect certain social benefits, such as Social Security.\n\"Greys\" is a term sometimes used pejoratively by environmentalists in the green movement to describe those who oppose environmental measures and supposedly prefer the grey of concrete and cement.\nMilitary.\nDuring the American Civil War, the soldiers of the Confederate Army wore grey uniforms. At the beginning of the war, the armies of the North and of the South had very similar uniforms; some Confederate units wore blue, and some Union units wore grey. There was confusion, and sometimes soldiers fired by mistake at soldiers of their own army. On June 6, 1861, the Confederate government issued regulations standardizing the army uniform and establishing cadet grey as the uniform color. This was (and still is) the color of the uniform of cadets at the United States Military Academy at West Point, and cadets at the Virginia Military Institute, which produced many officers for the Confederacy.\nThe new uniforms were designed by Nicola Marschall, a German-American artist, who also designed the original Confederate flag. He closely followed the design of contemporary French and Austrian military uniforms. Grey was not chosen for its camouflage value; this benefit was not appreciated for several more decades. The South lacked a major dye industry, though, and grey dyes were inexpensive and easy to manufacture. While some units had uniforms colored with good-quality dyes, which were a solid bluish-grey, others had uniforms colored with vegetable dyes made from sumac or logwood, which quickly faded in sunshine to the yellowish color of butternut squash.\nThe German Army wore grey uniforms from 1907 until 1945, during both the First World War and Second World War. The color chosen was a grey-green called field grey (). It was chosen because it was less visible at a distance than the previous German uniforms, which were Prussian blue. It was one of the first uniform colors to be chosen for its camouflage value, important in the new age of smokeless powder and more accurate rifles and machine guns. It gave the Germans a distinct advantage at the beginning of the First World War, when the French soldiers were dressed in blue jackets and red trousers. The Finnish Army also began using grey uniforms on the German model.\nSome of the more recent uniforms of the German Army and East German Army were field grey, as were some uniforms of the Swedish army. The formal dress (M/83) of the Finnish Army is grey. The Army of Chile wears field grey today.\nThe grey suit.\nDuring the 19th century, women's fashions were largely dictated by Paris, while London set fashions for men. The intent of a business suit was above all to show seriousness, and to show one's position in business and society. Over the course of the century, bright colors disappeared from men's fashion, and were largely replaced by a black or dark charcoal grey frock coat in winter, and lighter greys in summer. In the early 20th century, the frock coat was gradually replaced by the lounge suit, a less formal version of evening dress, which was also usually black or charcoal grey. In the 1930s the English suit style was called the drape suit, with wide shoulders and a nipped waist, usually dark or light grey. After World War II, the style changed to a slimmer fit called the continental cut, but the color remained grey.\nAssociations and symbolism.\nIn America and Europe, grey is one of the least popular colors; In a European survey, only one percent of men said it was their favorite color, and thirteen percent called it their least favorite color; the response from women was almost the same. According to one author, \"grey is too weak to be considered masculine, but too menacing to be considered a feminine color. It is neither warm nor cold, neither material or spiritual. With grey, nothing seems to be decided.\" It also denotes undefinedness and ambiguity, as in a grey area.\nGrey is the color most commonly associated in many cultures with the elderly and old age, because of the association with grey hair; it symbolizes the wisdom and dignity that come with experience and age. The \"New York Times\" is sometimes called \"The Grey Lady\" because of its long history and esteemed position in American journalism.\nGrey is the color most often associated in Europe and America with modesty."}
{"id": "731894", "revid": "724747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731894", "title": "Hithane", "text": ""}
{"id": "731895", "revid": "11049176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731895", "title": "Illongo", "text": ""}
